My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I understand that he has received from Western Australia a request for financial assistance from the Australian Paraplegic Council to assist in sending a team to the Third Commonwealth Paraplegic Games in Edinburgh this year. Can the Prime Minister inform me when he expects to make a decision? If he has already made a decision, what was the result of it? 
Has the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs seen reports of the activities of various mineral companies in the Wingellina area of Western Australia and does he propose any action as reported? 
In addressing a question to the Attorney-General I refer to the report of the committee under  Mr Justice  Manning presented in May 1964, which made recommendations concerning bills of exchange, including cheques. I refer also to the item on endorsement of cheques in the Governor-General's Speech last week. As this proposal would result in significant saving in labour needed elsewhere in the national economy, would the honourable gentleman advise whether the Government has accepted the general conclusion of the committee that general reform is now due to the law relating to cheques? Are most of the other recommendations embodied in the draft proposed Cheques 
Act accepted by the Government? Is it his intention to introduce the legislation as a separate Cheques Act or only as amendments to the Bills of Exchange Act? 
 I acknowledge the vehemence of the maiden speech of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  I am sure that being a sensitive man he will be glad to have it over. 1 am sorry that he did not acknowledge the hard, detailed and persistent work of his predecessor,  Mr Ian  Wilson who, as  chairman  of the Government members social services committee, played a major part in the introduction of the tapered means test legislation and other humane legislation and who had a deep involvement in national issues. I hope that the honourable member for Sturt will try to achieve such practical results himself. He seems to have a very simple view of economics but to be quite practised and able at loud and superficial abuse. I must take this opportunity to refer to the incorrect, ungenerous and most unfair remarks he made about the former honourable members for Sturt,  Sir Keith  Wilson and his son, because the Wilson family has made a tremendous contribution towards providing homes for the aged in South Australia. The efforts of this family and other people have been so successful that they have received on behalf of South Australia about 30% of the entire Commonwealth contribution for homes for the aged which, as honourable members will know, is provided on a basis of $2 for $1. And we must not forget that South Australia's population is only 9.4% of the total population of the Commonwealth. Tomorrow when he reads his remarks in Hansard I ask the honourable member for Sturt to consider whether as a representative of the people of South Australia he should let those remarks stand on the record and not place on it the whole truth. 
The honourable member can read in Hansard tomorrow what I have said. The introduction of overseas investment capital into Australia continues to be a highly charged political subject. Many are the emotions aroused and these, too, must be recognised and considered since they are factors influencing the flow and employment of overseas capital. As with many another subject, those interested in national affairs, both inside and outside the Parliament, believe that their view is the policy which would best cater for Australia's interests. Yet perhaps this subject contains more shades of difference than most. I want to use this opportunity to look at some aspects of foreign investment and Government policy and to offer a few remarks for consideration because while the overseas capital we are receiving is far from overwhelming, it is a most important stimulus to the growth of the Australian economy. This stimulus is most necessary if we are to develop our natural resources, justify our occupation of this huge country, have our standard of living improve at a fast rate and put ourselves in a position where we can play our part in world development and affairs-diplomatically, economically and, if necessary, militarily, particularly in South East Asia. 
A matter involving such political considerations deserves the continuing interests of all Australians. After all, Australia has nearly 3 million square miles of land and within it are undeniably vast natural resources of every type. On the other hand, our resources of labour are small due to our relatively small population. The work force in that population is, as we all know, fully extended at this time and that is an economic and political achievement of which the Government parties are rightly proud. Indeed, a major problem for government today is firstly to increase the labour supply and secondly to encourage the most efficient use of the existing work force into avenues of higher priority to our economy. The increase in our labour resource by immigration, announced recently by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  at 180,000 this year, is regarded as the greatest rate of increase which this country can satisfactorily absorb. It is greater than the rate of increase in any period of United States history. 
This leaves us to consider the third resource, which is capital. The opportunities for investment in Australia are so numerous that the investor is presented with a bewildering choice. If the Australian economy has earned its income for the year and the people have lived off it, at, incidentally, a very high standard of living by world standards, there remains that amount of the national income which is available for investment. I refer to national savings. To this is added overseas borrowing. This aggregate sum is nowhere near enough for adequate capital investment growth in this country. For many years Australia has been devoting about 25% of its gross national product to fixed investment, public and private. This means that one quarter of the available production has been devoted to the future. Few countries can claim so much, and so it is that Australian governments for many years have encouraged investment in Australia by overseas companies, although the avenues for investment are many times greater than investment from all sources. Actually the sum received from overseas is not huge. Investment in industry, rising from $250m to $400m over the last 5 years, represents only about half the amount spent on roads in Australia - about 10% of the investment by Australian private companies. Of it United Kingdom investment represents about 45% and American investment about 40%. The United Kingdom investment is older and much of it is hidden by Australian representation, lt is the American segment about which we hear so many emotional appeals to our nationalism and warnings of losing our heritage. Some of these are so unreasonable as to amount to an expression of anti-Americanism, and thus I want, in these remarks, to refer particularly to United States investment. There is no doubt that particularly over the last 2 decades all types of overseas capital - direct investment in industry and portfolio investment - have greatly increased and facilitated the rate of Australia's development. Domestic savings, which generally account for between 85% and 90% of total investment, comprising almost all the investment in public utilities, housing and other social needs, have been supplemented by this means and Australians have been able to live beyond the income available from domestic sources. 
Let us look at a few brief facts. Firstly, as I have mentioned, the sum itself, although important investment, is not huge. In a comprehensive 1966 survey set out in American Investment in Australia',  Dr D.  T. Brash shows that, in the management of American companies, less than 10% of the senior executives of American establishments in Australia are United States personnel, and most have complete replacement programmes. The setting up of major capital works and new products supply is usually carried on with a large amount of Australian autonomy, even in wholly owned subsidiaries. Further, it was found that while the American parent companies laid down budgets and cost accounting techniques, the parent provided much technical training and the very substantial benefits of management techniques which, as is widely known, are highly developed in the United States. More than 50% of the com panies regarded the information coming in as absolutely essential to their operation, and this is hardly surprising as the United States has had long experience in such a wide variety of industries and most comprehensive research programmes over a staggering range. 
Know-how of great complexity is available - designs, blueprints, patents, formulae, work method manuals and personnel training. We have much to learn from this, particularly in its application to individual industries and specific practical instances. It is of immeasurable benefit to Australian industry and to our standard of living because it is the result of years of experience and research by an inventive people of the most industrialised country in the world. It is made available at insignificant cost to Australian establishments. The absolutely fundamental importance of expertise to most foreign investment in Australia must always be remembered. It is not only money, it is knowledge. It was also found that American companies in Australia spend far more on research within Australia than Australian companies and, generally, they are more prone to conducting staff training programmes. Most American establishments in Australia have resulted in the situation of expansion to local industries, enlarging the scale of operation to economic levels and creating much demand from supplier firms, resulting in higher standards of production. General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, Mount Isa Mines Ltd and the Comalco company are examples of this - of inefficient, weak or failing companies which were expanded and made more efficient. It has resulted, because of the diversity of their activities, in breaking down what were or could have been monopolies within Australia. 
Foreign firms compete on the Australian market without special advantages. Coming in they have no special control over our resources. They have to bargain, buy and tender within the Australian framework. They have no guarantee of property rights or repatriation capital. After all, foreigners take the risk that if they ever have to leave, the factories, oil refineries, wharves and railways remain here. These matters are in the hands, from day to day, of the Australian Government; though being an honourable people we do not wish to go back on our agreements or act unfairly. But theirs is the risk when a company sets up an establishment, negotiates for it, pays for all its establishment, manages it and puts it into production. If it makes a profit, and only then, the Government takes 45% of that profit in company primary tax. That is a sort of share farming agreement, if they make losses, of course they suffer them all. 
In Western Australia mining ventures have, under agreement, opened up many remote regions in dramatic examples of economic decentralisation based on industry. They have built wharves, towns, rail tracks, schools, police stations and all the facilities, and on the profits they pay their taxation. Many of these agreements provide for progressive refinement of the minerals. A fully integrated iron and steel industry in Western Australia will result from the iron deposits, and iron pelletising was processed years before that was required by the agreement. I am pleased to see that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  encourages the processing of minerals in Australia. I am sure that this attitude will commend itself to all Australians as a middle term objective since it will result in greater export income, more employment opportunities for highly economic industries and, consequently, more funds available for State expenditure on education, social services and health. It is important for us all, in making demands for increased expenditure and a sharing of the nation's wealth, to look to the income side to ensure the necessary increase of available finance. 
By way of including two common criticisms, I refer firstly to the restriction of exports. It is claimed that when foreign firms set up an Australian establishment to produce in Australia, the foreign parent company may not permit export to other regions where they have factories and that this restricts our exports. Where is the basic validity in this? Generally if exports to those countries had been permitted from abroad we would not have the industry in the first place and so surely we are better off. It is more likely that our own high labour costs and tariff policies are a greater barrier to exports. We are also told, without any specific example that I can find, that there is a certain amount of tax evasion by foreign firms. My own respect for the efficiency of the Taxation Branch is such that 1 should be very surprised if any foreign companies are successful in that respect. A basic truth is that in the overwhelming number of cases profits, after tax, are not distributed in dividends overseas but are reinvested here. Large firms have a progressive investment programme. 
It is worth remembering that in recent years both the British and the United States governments have sought to restrict much of the capital exported into developing countries like Australia. It is a valid assumption that if those governments have come to the conclusion that it is unfavourable and undesirable for them to be exporting capital it is very likely to be in the interests of Australia to import it. It is a further fact, which arises in negotiating, that in many competitive industries, such as steel and rubber, international conglomerate companies simply will not enter into joint ventures or joint ownership because of their fear of losing technical secrets. So the question arises, if a firm demands 100% control in the equity, whether we say 'stay away'. Of course, many foreign companies are large exporters who consequently generate considerable export income for Australia's own use. 
We often read articles in which it is assumed that if only governments were tougher in negotiation all woul'd be well. I believe that much negotiation so far has been tough, with sensible use of business judgment on the presently known facts and practical influences. The Western Australian Government has obtained enormous benefits for Western Australia and for the whole nation without giving any more than necessary. But the obvious and major cost is, of course, the payment of interest, dividends and royalties overseas. Payments of this kind must be accepted. Naturally we hope them to be reasonable and minimised by Government encouragement which will not deter further investment. 
As an expression of the emotionalism to which I have referred I note that most heated criticism is of payments to the United States and not the United Kingdom. Some American companies attract particular abuse but, nationally, we are interested in the aggregate receipts and the aggregate payments. Therefore it is most 
Important to note the Treasury document dated 2nd April 1969 stating that total dividends, interest and undistributed profits payable overseas in 1968 represented 1.9% of the gross national product - about the same as 10 years ago. Income payable at 7% is approximately the same as the rate of return on investments by Australian companies. Income payable abroad in 1964- 65 amounted to S333m. This increased to $629m by 1968-69. When, therefore, Australian equity can be gained or preserved by measures which allow Australian companies to borrow abroad, such equity gain means less expenditure of profits earned overseas in the long run and is to be encouraged. 
Sometimes foreign capital is not offered on fair terms. The Government rightly has a flexible policy to enable it to look at each case on its merits. Industry is so variable that tight rules lead to keeping out desirable investment. In the past the Commonwealth Government has acted to preserve Australian ownership and control of firms in certain industry sectors which for special reasons of national interest or importance could not be permitted to pass into foreign hands. For example, overseas banks, television and radio are governed by statute for obvious reasons. In recent times the Government acted to prevent foreign takeover of MLC Ltd, when for a minute investment a tremendous quantity of Australian assets would have come under the control of a foreign company. These interventions can be regarded as only right and reasonable. 
The Government has encouraged, and no doubt should continue to encourage, Australian equity to be offered to foreign investors - we cannot force it to be taken up - using measures which will not deter the general flow. 1 suggest that the Government, both with its guidelines, principles and otherwise, properly considers matters as they come through departments and even the Reserve Bank of Australia, which exercises relevant power in this field; and that it would be most foolish of us to chase away industries and lose the great advantages to be gained from foreign investment and foreign know-how through fears unfounded. The recent guideline policy on loan investment raisings is a broad formulation to elaborate on Treasury policy expressed in a document entitled 'Overseas Investment in Australia' dated April 1968 in respect of borrowings and to encourage - not attempt to force - Australia's equity by giving an incentive. We would all like to see more Australian investment but, as I pointed out earlier, we have nowhere near enough of our own. 
We recall the report of the Committee of Economic Inquiry, known as the Vernon report. Tt has a celebrated list of pros and cons of foreign capital investment in Chapter II; but it must surely have started with a prejudice because it recommends a large number of restrictions based on a projection of the increase in foreign investment at the rate of 9% per annum at constant prices. For the years estimated so far nothing like that flow has come into Australia and nothing like the implied conditions prevail here. The Committee's conclusions were erroneous. As Professor L,dell said, they are theoretically questionable and factually inadequate. This was a case of prejudice overcoming objectivity. Indeed the whole overtone of this section is hardly objective and uses such emotional phrases as 'on the tiger's back'. Incidentally, the Vernon Committee's estimate of mineral exports against the import of capital was a mile out. It estimated mineral exports at $330m in 1975. Today they are $759m and, as the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  disclosed a fortnight ago, projections show minimum mineral exports of nearly $2,000m per annum by 1976-77. In my view that figure will be greatly increased, perhaps to 10 times the Vernon Committee's estimate because of the various mines which are not yet passed the feasibility stage. This type of caution, or even pessimism, in estimates does not help anyone's plans. 
Of course there are wide areas of judgment yet open in this field. But let us always remember that the United States of America itself was built up on foreign capital, mainly British, and expanded into the industrial giant it is today. In order to think more deeply about the emotional appeals that are made from time to time that we must have only Australian investment or that the majority content in every foreign investment must be Australian or that we must create barriers to all or most overseas investment, let us look at these matters fairly and squarely. Large investing companies making decisions in London and New York have many alternatives, but Australia is at present appealing. It is politically stable. It has great potential for economic expansion and its governments have conducted a policy of allowing a fairly free flow of capital. 
After all, if you propose to invest capital you want to know that you can get it out again; otherwise it is a particularly onesided affair and unattractive. That is the reason why New Zealand suffers in this respect. It might often be, if you do not get certain conditions which seem to you to be essential or even fair and the Government lays down impossible ownership or control conditions, that you would just as soon go to the next place on your list. So a responsible government, whether it is a negotiating party or whether it is considering general controls, will have to ask itself whether the economy really needs that particular industry for general investment before it makes the going too tough. If a government lays down inflexible rules to apply in every case, not only will the conditions not fit every type of industry but I believe it will very quickly be found that the overall inflow has dropped. As has been said many times, capital is a shy bird. There are many opportunities in the world, and if Australia is too difficult foreign investors will go elsewhere. That is certainly the general attitude of Australian business to investing in New Zealand - and quite understandably. 
As I said before, emotions run high. There seems to be a fear around that we will lose control over our own resources. Can this be? Surely there is no such thing as American business. There can hardly be any real influence on. much less control of, Australian government by United States business. United States interests are numerous, diverse complex and politically unco-ordinated. They have few interests in common. Matters of interest between governments in the modern world are too important and expensive to be influenced much by private enterprise investments. Indeed, the evidence is rather that those United States firms which are established would like tariff barriers against their compatriots to preserve the status quo. 
In summary, there is such a mammoth sum required to meet the opportunities which our natural resources present and our own capacity for investment from savings is so small that we must encourage foreign capital on a reasonably fair basis. While there can be no argument as to the interpretation of that principle, I am convinced that a fairly free flow of capital should be maintained. Those demanding Australian participation seem unaware that harsh measures would frighten away many projects, and there is simply not the investment capital available in this country to only because it has provided finance for numerous enterprises and activities which might have otherwise not have been initiated or the establishment of which might have been delayed, but also because it has allowed Australian industry to keep abreast of the latest projects and techniques. From it Australia lives better and grows faster, participate in every scheme, even if it were desirable. Speeches about losing our birthright, far from helping, only cloud the issues. 
We must continue to consider this whole matter with a view to trying to improve Australia's position, taking care not to frighten investors away, not to lose through baseless suspicions and not to repel opportunities for rapid expansion in the certain establishment of Australia as a great nation of the world. Over the years investment has been of tremendous value to Australia not 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Before I call the honourable member for Banks I would like to remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
Has the Minister for External Affairs seen a Press report of a statement attributed to the new Australian Ambassador to Japan calling for Japanese re-arming? Will the Minister say whether the report is correct? Will he state the Government's position in the matter? 
-I want to refer to some remarks made during the adjournment debate last Thursday evening by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  Whilst 1 am sure that honourable members on this side can respect a good Labor man, and 1 am sure that his integrity is high, the honourable member for Sydney made some implications in his speech which I think should be answered. Firstly, he implied that no associations exist between members of the Australian Labor Party and Communists; secondly that there is no danger to Australia from China; and thirdly that the Liberals unfairly scare the Australian people.I think that is a fair summation of 3 points implicit in the honourable gentleman's speech. 1 would like to take one at a time the points made by the honourable member. The honourable member for Sydney made great play of the luncheons and dinners that were held by members of the Liberal Party on very odd occasions with Communists. But the question is the nature Of association between members of Parliament and Communists and the character of the association itself. As evidence I refer to the associations, which we see and of which we warn the Australian people, between members of the Labor Party and Communists. I produce as evidence the well known use of unity tickets in union elections and the co-operation which is evident between members of these 2 parties. I also refer to certain changed views of members of the Opposition. I would like to quote a report of some remarks made by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  in February 1965. The right honourable member said: 
The demand of the Soviet Government for the immediate departure of all Americans and other foreign forces from South Vietnam would be in the interests neither of the people of South Vietnam nor the people of Australia. Its immediate consequence must be a Communist takeover of 
South Vietnam snuffing out the hope of freedom and of democratic independence in that country and extending the areas of Communist control closer to their country. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise to make a personal explanation. 
 I take this opportunity to raise with the House and the Government a matter of great interest to the people of Western Australia, many aspects of which are of national importance. It is a proposal that would bring closer together the residents of that State and those of other States. It would provide for an improvement in the mobility of our defence forces. These things are surely desirable. It would improve trade and tourism and would make Western Australia closer to the Commonwealth. That surely is desirable. 1 refer to the completion of the sealing of the Eyre Highway in South Australia. There are 311 miles of that road unsealed, extending from the South AustralianWestern Australian border into South Australia towards Ceduna. Highway No. 1 stretches, almost completely sealed, 5,000 miles from Cairns in Queensland right around to a point 700 miles north of Perth. It traverses 5 States and has only this section of 311 miles of unsealed road in South Australia. 
The Western Australian Government has surfaced all its section to the border, the last part of which cost $9.5m. The South Australian Government has sealed the section from Lincoln Gap to Ceduna at a cost of $5. 25m out of its own resources, and from Penong to Ceduna at a cost of $1.38m. At present 46 miles are in the process of being sealed, but at this time there are only plans for surveying beyond that. Thus South Australia and Western Australia have made very substantial allocations of their own funds for sealing the Eyre Highway. As the House is aware, the Commonwealth road grants formula, which is desirable from many points of view, cannot cover every situation. This is such a case. There is a limit to the amount that South Australia can spend on rural arterial roads in accordance with the agreement. The formula, I repeat, does not suit this case. Western Australia has given a high priority in the allocation of its funds for the sealing of the Eyre Highway and I pay tribute to the Government of that State and the Premier,  Sir David  Brand, for ensuring for 8 or 9 years that the Western Australian Government planned and formed this road. It was a farsighted approach and expenditure from Western Australia's allocation has been in the national interest. But the priorities that the South Australian Government sees are different. It gives priorities to other roads and I understand that in this region it has given priority to a road going towards the south, as is its right. 
So it is my contention that the Commonwealth Government ought to make a Commonwealth grant for the completion of this Highway since with the road formula devised, granted the benefits of it in other spheres, does not cover the case of providing for a sealed highway across the nation. I believe that the facts of this case demand a grant, and I will elaborate that in a moment. Of all the miles of Highway No. 1, which extends around Australia, at this time the 311 miles to which I have referred are the most important part to seal. That section at this moment is the most essential link in the Highway. If a State such as Western Australia does all it can to cover the link and another State through which the road passes does not give that link a high priority, surely it is a case for the Commonwealth Government to come to some agreement concerning the unsealed remainder. I point out that it has been calculated that 62 per cent of the traffic passing over this road in South Australia comes from outside that State. 
As to more detailed reasons I refer, first, to trade and tourism. Many trucks and a a great deal of transport go across the Eyre Highway. Wear and tear on this transport is tremendous. Anyone travelling along the Highway will see the many discarded and worn tyres which are mute witness to the condition of this unsealed section. I point out that even in a distance of 5000 miles, 311 miles of rough road which is used by all States is a long way. As it is, this section acts as a considerable deterrent to the average and small car owner and to inexperienced drivers. One cannot at present travel at an average cost on this highway; to many people the costs are prohibitive. Traffic on the Highway has doubled in the last 3 years. At present it carries about 100 vehicles a day. It has been estimated, I would think fairly that this could be expected to double or treble if sealed. From the tourist point of view there is also the question of accommodation. Motels at present are situated at intervals of 200 miles and doubtless with increased traffic the number of motels would be greatly increased. However the major point I wish to make is that this is the sole road connecting Western Australia with the other States. It provides the only present practical road communication with Western Australia and, as such, it affects a complete segment of the transport industry. 
I now refer to the defence aspect. Although priorities for this expenditure on defence have not been set very high, nevertheless preparedness is essential to any de- fence. In Western Australia there are many who feel that their significant defence requires the utmost in mobility. If the road is not sealed, what will be the position in an emergency should large numbers of vehicles of the armed services be needed and, as happens from time to time, they strike 311 miles of mud or 311 miles of dust? 
The last point to which I wish to draw the attention of this House - representing Western Australian Liberals as I do - is the need to bring the people together and improve the national identity of the people of all States. There is in Western Australia a widespread feeling of isolation from the rest of Australia, a feeling which is intangible but very real. An average man should be able to travel on a sealed highway to and fro without prohibitively high costs. Of course this applies to all communications between east and west. Good communications are of tremendous national importance. My proposal is that the Commonwealth should initiate negotiations with the South Australian Government towards a scheme involving joint expenditure. Perhaps there could be a Commonwealth grant spread over a fairly lengthy period of 5 years. Such a grant would be for the Government to determine in accordance with its priorities and resources, financial and labour. The Commonwealth has tremendous responsibilities and has to consider all its priorities. I am making today a plea for a higher priority to be given to the Eyre Highway. South Australia has come to the conclusion that out of its funds it cannot give a sufficiently high priority to sealing the highway. That shows that the importance of the highway, highway No. 1, is not sufficiently recognised by South Australia. as a high priority rural arterial road. Western Australia has by sealing its own section shown the priority it gives to the highway. The only way to overcome difficulties arising from the decision taken with other priorities in view is for the Commonwealth to make a special grant. This type of highway clearly was not envisaged in the formula. 
So I make a plea for the upgrading of that priority in the national interest. As things stand there is no end in sight and there is no reason why at this stage the Commonwealth and South Australian governments cannot make a plan to seal over a period instead of putting off the matter. I believe the Commonwealth can do something; nothing has been done. We can do better than that. It is intolerable, in the national interest and in a country of Australia's stature, to leave this road unsealed. I ask the Government to re-examine the matter. The west and east are divided by great distances and indeed, some history. In welding the national identity, such matters as these - small in themselves - are of great national significance. It is 2,500 miles to Perth - let us bring it closer. 
The great Lord Acton once wisely remarked: 
The earth belongs to those who dwell upon it, not to those who lie beneath it. 
This remark is applicable to the subject today. I want to mention very briefly the history of death duties because they arose and were developed in the United Kingdom and provide a background to the law which exists in Australia today. The earliest record of death duties was in 1694 when there existed such a duty in the form of regressive stamp duty. Many types of death duties were applied and were amended until in 1894 five of the then existing death duties were replaced and one estate duty in the present form superseded all the others. In 1949  Sir 
Stafford Cripps, Chancellor in the then Labour Government introduced the most highly progressive estate duty known, rising to 80% of the value of the estate. That replaced all the other death duties and became and still is the sole estate duty. It is interesting to note that only a few years ago 25% of the estates in the United Kingdom were taxed more than 40%. Inevitably the growing weight of death duties has led to legislative provisions along three distinct lines: Firstly, to alleviate the burden of special cases; secondly, to facilitate payment without unnecessary hardship or undesirable economic consequences; thirdly, to combat evasion and avoidance. It is the first 2 of these with which we are concerned today. Provisions in the United Kingdom legislation allow for marginal relief on the progressive scale, quick succession duty and relief in provisions concerning agricultural property. In the United Kingdom this was introduced in 1925 and provides for relief of 45% of the ordinary rate of duty. Death duties were first introduced into New South Wales in 1865 and in Tasmania in that year also. By 1895, all the States imposed such duty. The Commonwealth itself imposed death duty in 1914, authority arising from explicit reference in the Australian Constitution. 
There are 4 points to which I wish to refer particularly today, but, before I do, may I make a passing reference to the amendments put forward by the Opposition. These amendments have been dealt with, I think almost completely, and answer fully by the honourable members for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  May I comment that, in the main, they are spurious, vague and superficial. They are clearly attempts at vote catching. I do not believe that the thinking taxpayer will be fooled by such a transparent device. There is sense in only 1 of these sub-paragraphs, I believe, and that is sub-paragraph (b) (ii), to which I will later refer. 
The major principle in the Bill is that of providing relief to primary producers and to the estates of primary producers who are deceased from 25th September 1969. There are 2 conditions to obtaining that relief. The first is that 50% of the assets of the estate should be concerned with primary production and, secondly, that a gross income of at least 50% from primary production for the last 5 years shall have been received. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  made reference to this second condition and suggested that the provision ought to relate to net income. I can suggest only to the House that the honourable member has not examined the Bill very thoroughly or he would realise that such a suggestion would rule out, many, many bona fide primary producers. 
The relief given by these provisions is threefold. First, the minimum amount of exemption has been increased by 20% above the existing levels. Secondly, a 20% reduction above that minimum level is to be given. That diminishes on a sliding scale on a proportion which cuts out at the level of $120,000. Thirdly - and perhaps most importantly - a partial rebate of duty applies, being 50% of the ordinary rates on that area of value of estates between $140,000 and $250,000. Again, it is at 50% on the $140,000 and diminishes in proportion to nil at $250,000. A long standing principle in death duty law is that greater relief in death duties be given to beneficiaries who are members of the family. That is, that greater relief be given to widows, children and grandchildren than to others. It is right that a man should be able to work, to save and to leave his assets to close relatives and that they have some benefit for that. It has long been recognised that this principle exists and I wish to discuss it further a little later. 
I am glad to see - and 1 commend the Government for realising this fact - that recognition has been given to the fact that when primary producers own company shares they should be entitled to relief in this respect too. It is important that this should be recognised as well as the case where assets are left to individuals. The leaving of estates to persons other than members of a family means that those in receipt of assets from an estate are worse off because, firstly, they pay higher duties. Secondly, they have a lower exemption limit. In this case, the amount is $12,000 as opposed to $24,000 and, thirdly, the relief to which such people are entitled, which I have mentioned earlier, cuts out at a far lower level, namely $60,000. 
A 'family company' - I think that we could define it in this way - means a company all the shares in which at the date of a relevant person's death are beneficially owned by that person or him and his family. In respect of that matter, I wish to request the Government to give consideration to allowing this relief of duty to an estate which is left to a family company, defined as may be necessary and with appropriate provisions. I. believe that this suggestion is consistent with the recognition by the Government that family companies need not be treated with disadvantage as against individuals. If we allow shares in family companies with rural assets, included in estates, to qualify as primary producers, we should allow such family class of companies, properly defined, to be given the same advantage as relatives when named as beneficiaries of such estates. 
For my second main point I refer to the statement made by the former Treasurer, the present Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  When referring to this matter originally, he touched on the principle - perhaps the main principle of the Bill - and said: 
The proposed reliefs combined with the relaxation of administrative requirements will be  a  substantial step towards ensuring the retention  of  economic farm units by primary producers and their families. 
Referring to the same principle, the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his second reading speech said: 
This will provide valuable assistance to the heirs of farm properties and will do much to discourage the breaking up of economic farm units to obtain finance to meet estate duty. 
I say with some emphasis that 1 do not criticise this principle of the concession and relief of death duties to be given to primary producers. All thinking people know of the fundamental contribution of primary producers to the building up of the economy of this country in the past and their basic contribution to the character of Australian life, both of which continue today. But I believe that the principles as stated could and should have a wider application. Economic units in the hands of families of non-rural character should get equal relief - the shops, factories, hotel's and services being provided - where they are fixed assets. It is a strong human desire for people to aim to leave to their children - not huge estates which are not protected by legislation but, on the contrary, heavily taxed - either businesses or enough of their savings for their children to have adequate comfort or an adequate education. I believe that this is a laudable and a natural feeling. However people see the youth of today, many do receive such estates with gratitude, work them and work in them hard as economic units. 
I have referred earlier to the United Kingdom legislation. In 1954 in the Finance Act, provision was made for a reduction of duty by 45%, the duty being then 55%, in the rates of estate duty charged on industrial premises, plant, machinery and equipment used by the deceased, or a company under his control, as in this legislation, to which assets the assets basis of valuation is applied. It does not include liquid assets, for instance, trading stocks. Indeed, the United Kingdom Government has a slightly different formula. It gives to private industrial business a concession similar to agriculture. Further details of the application of that legislation in the United Kingdom can be seen by reference to Green's 'Death Duties' 5th edition, D. J. Lawday and E. J. Mann, starting at page 375. My contention is that a wider scope than the United Kindon, legislation should be given, as I have indicated. 
The third point to which I wish to refer is that in the United Kingdom where provision applies for relief in agricultural property a considerable taxation avoidance has evolved. This avoidance is widespread. We have provided - and I believe it is a wise provision - that to qualify for this relief one must have received over 50% of his total income from primary production for 5 years. I believe that this provision needs to be further strengthened if we are to avoid a situation in which people, perhaps in the latter years of their lives, transfer their assets into rural assets simply in order to get relief from death duties. 
As I have said, this is the situation that exists in the United Kingdom. I emphasise that a provision is necessary to prevent purchases to avoid death duties. Family heritage is one thing; tax avoidance is another. We should have such a provision for 2 reasons: In the first place, tax avoidance would result in a loss of dutv to the revenue, which is important enough in itself; but secondly, and of interest to everyone interested in the welfare of those in rural areas, as we all ought to be, it would create a more artificial demand for rural land. It would increase land prices at a time when full-time farmers are complaining about city investors raising farm prices in their bid to obtain the attractive income tax deductions that the development of farms can bring. 
For my fourth point - as it may be a long while before one can make another comment on death duties - I would like to draw the attention of the House to a provision which exists in the United Kingdom law and which I believe ought to be considered by us and perhaps included in our legislation. Property articles of national, scientific or historical interest - including what one might generally call art' - are increasing in number in Australia. Art is developing strongly in Australia and we have a number of national and international works of art. A provision exists in the United Kingdom - and I believe it ought to exist here - under which such articles are not included in the valuation of an estate in certain cases. Further, they are exempt if ultimately sold to a national or local art gallery or museum. Duty is paid at an average rate calculated on the valuation of the residue of the estate if these articles are sold to other than the galleries and museums I have referred to. This provision encourages the retention in the nation of works of art and historical and scientific articles. Such Government encouragement to build an artistic and historical wealth helps to build the national heritage and uplifts the influence on the lives of our citizens. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether there is any truth in the allegation that a  Mr K.  Enderby, who I believe is a candidate for Australian Labor Party preselection, told a joint meeting of ALP branches that the AttorneyGeneral's Department gave orders to a Canberra magistrate in relation to a part heard case on which he had been sitting. 
The Export Payments Insurance Corporation has been a resounding success. In the 11 years of its existence it has provided cover against loss for $ 1,064m exports. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said, in the year ended December 1969 EPIC issued 780 policies covering exports worth $330m. The Corporation has demonstrated in practice its effectiveness. Its operation has convincingly answered those criticisms made by members of the Opposition during the debates in 1956 when the Bill setting up EPIC was introduced. 
In introducing this Bill on 19th March last the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  covered fully its provisions, with detailed reference to the operations of EPIC since it was formed. So completely did he deal with these aspects that I do not intend to embellish his remarks but I would like to address a few comments to the principle of the Bill and the Corporation. Before I do so, however, perhaps I should take the opportunity to refer to one or two matters raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. If I may say so with respect, his tone was very mild. He employed none of the strong language which he and his colleagues introduced into the debate on the original Bill in 1956. He said that Labor always looked favourably on the Corporation and would like the Bill to go further than it does. To his credit he concluded his remarks by congratulating the Government on introducing this measure. A close reading of the debates in 1956 shows rather more stringent criticism by the Opposition of the proposals then announced. However, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports today made a number of points which I think it is only fair to say were anticipated in 1956 by the Minister who introduced the Bill. Perhaps the major point of the honourable member's remarks was the need which he sees to provide credit facilities of some kind. I think I am correct when I say that this was a matter raised by the honourable member in the original debate. 
Of course, to adopt as policy the suggestions made by the honourable member would lead the Government to provide what would amount to an export of capital because at any one time very large sums would be involved if this fund of export credit were to grow, and presumably the honourable member sees it in fairly large terms and not a small term. This would require the provision of large funds from savings and the import of capital into this country. In other words, the money would come from funds, which we require for investment. Thus far Australia has been a capital importing country. We have been able to put imported capital to very good use. In considering the honourable member's proposal for ' the provision of credit a government would have to balance the need to expand and diversify exports as much as possible with the need for importing as much capital as we can get into this country to build up our strength and develop our huge natural resources which we are now trying to develop with our relatively tiny resources of labour and capital. 
In the debate on the original Bill Opposition members raised issues involving deep party principles and policies for the Liberal Party. I would think, although I cannot speak for it, that the Country Party also was involved. In introducing the present legislation on 19th March last the Minister for Trade and Industry touched on these matters of party principles in referring to EPIC and the Australian Industry Development Corporation. He referred to the earlier criticism that these bodies were Socialist in concept. It is not uncommon for Liberal governments to be challenged by the statement that a certain proposal is Socialist. The underlying principles of EPIC and AIDC should be examined with this criticism in mind. I believe that the problem confronting this Government - it should be a problem of all governments and all members of Parliament - is to balance the freedom of the individual with the rights of the individual and the public interest. It is a nicety of judgment to interpret that principle. The decision as to when that principle is involved requires the active consideration of all who are resolved to maintain a private enterprise economy; all who really believe in allowing individuals freedom to live and work as they wish; all who strive to create a climate for the encouragement of initiative and resourcefulness, leading to productive efficiency, high output and a fair share of the nation's wealth. Thus the principle applied here involves firstly the setting of an economic climate to achieve international trade and secondly the justification of the need to act if competition or testriction of private enterprise is involved. In this, EPIC is a good example. Indeed, it is fundamental Liberal policy that some controls in Government administration are necessary to maintain greater freedom for others - that is, the public interest - for freedom and not licence is the aim. But also Liberal principle conceives controls which are not controls for their own sake, which are theoretical and truly Socialist or, as the great Burke said, 'Liberty too must be limited in order to be possessed'. 
A strong case must be made for the real justification that such legislative methods are for the public good. For Liberals favour to err, if indeed there is a need to err, on the side of the individual and to leave things to be done in the private way. Our belief in private rights giving preference to the private way of economic development has proved right and desirable for all the community. I believe in private enterprise because of its respect for individual freedoms - freedom of choice tempered by considerations of the public interest - for out of that in the long term will come the correct way to proceed. I believe that the broad economic practice of resource allocation in our free private enterprise economy has proved the best for the community of Australians. It is an important element of the justification in this Bill in clause 4, which seeks to amend section 13 of the Act, that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation does not enter into contracts of insurance against risks normally insured within commercial insurance. 
This Government and the Parties which comprise it are the significant force in our country to strike a just balance between the freedom of individual citizens and the rights and claims of public interest. This is a continuing problem of judgment. It is no problem to Socialists because everything is in the public interest and the individual is just a cog in the State machine. Indeed, the senior Labor  speaker  in the debates in 1956, to which I have referred, himself advocated a nationalised insurance scheme. That surely serves to remind us of Labor's objectives. I believe that the principle underlying this Bill has been justified by the Minister in every way, including justification within the principle that I have stated, and that a most substantial case has been made out for the Australian Industry Corporation Bill too. Further, it is consistent with Liberal principles and with practical common sense. 1 believe that the Minister has shown that, to use his own words, it is not: 
. a Socialist conception and an unwarranted intrusion by governments into private business; such a corporation would provide unfair competition to private enterprise institutions . . . 
The record of achievement of EPIC shows its value in promoting export expansion and diversification in the interests of private enterprise and of the nation. Private enterprise is the backbone of economic wellbeing in Australia. The justification of industry is the sharing of our increased wealth fairly, our real wealth being production. Statistics prove absolutely the increased and increasing wellbeing of our citizens. No abuse or propaganda can take away from that fact. There are a few timid people who fear progress and who try to give strange names for what the Government is doing. To some it is Fascism, to some Socialism, to some bureaucracy. But in so doing they are trying to make very complex and theoretical something which is really very simple and very practical. 1 believe in practical explanations and practical policies. I believe that what the Government is doing today is a fulfilment of what Australians have always been doing, a fulfilment of old and tested ideals. 
-Has the Minister for Shipping and Transport received from the Government of Western Australia a request for special loan funds to re-equip the State Shipping Service of Western Australia with lighter attached to ship vessels - so called LASH boats - involving an estimated saving of $3.5m per annum? If so, what is the present position? Will the Minister ensure an early answer to the request? 
Of all the aspects of government considered in this Parliament, before all else comes the security of this country from external threat. Defence is fundamental and this motion urges the Government to give the highest priority to consideration of naval defence on the western seaboard and in the Indian Ocean. We are all proud to see Australia growing. With growth comes increasing interdependence economically and increasing responsibility to play our part in the world, particularly in South East Asia, economically, diplomatically and even on occasions militarily, because this is a world in which armed might is still the most powerful factor in the conduct of great affairs between nations. The Government parties are convinced that an understanding of the realities of politics, intentions and warfare in the world and, of particular concern to us. events in South East Asia, leaves no doubt of our need and our duty to arm ourselves and contribute forces where necessary, to the stability of the South East Asian region. 
In the past many Australian Labor Party speakers have shown genuine interest in our defence but that is not the position today. Many have been the debates on these matters. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has made clear the view of the Government - views which I wholeheartedly support - in excellent statements in February last year and in his policy speech last October. I do not propose to develop these matters now but will do so on a future occasion. This proposed naval dockyard facility at Cockburn Sound will add to that defence capacity. I think it is appropriate to refer to basic important statements which the Prime Minister made in his policy speech. He said: 
Adequate defence is the rock on which national security stands. Without it, debate on internal matters could be academic. Over the years ahead wc shall maintain and increase our defence capacity. 
Later he said: 
We shall strengthen the Navy wilh the types of ship the Navy advise us that they most require, including the new light destroyers and the fast combat support ships asked for by that Service. 
Later, and perhaps most relevantly, he said: 
We believe that broad considerations of Australia's geo-political position and national development point to the conclusion that naval support facilities in Western Australia will also be required in the  future 
Our fleet numbers will increase and will have to take an increasing interest in the Indian  Ocean  as the British withdraw. Therefore we have decided that we should begin the planned development of a naval base at Cockburn Sound. 
The first step, as recommended in the study made by our consultants, is the construction of a causeway linking Garden Island (Garden Island, Western Australia) to the mainland. We shall at once proceed to the detailed design of this causeway and will begin construction next financial year. Thereafter the naval facilities will be progressively installed over a period. 
I want now to give a brief description of the locality and environs of Cockburn Sound. I hope that all honourable members who visit Perth from time to time will not fail to inspect this area at the earliest opportunity. Cockburn Sound starts in the south at Point Peron which is only 30 miles south of the Perth General Post Office and 19 miles south of Fremantle. It extends for 14 miles north and south of the coastline from the southern edge of the Perth metropolitan area to Point Peron. It is an area of water which is protected in the south, west and largely in the south west, the direction of the prevailing breeze, by Garden Island. This is a small island running north and south which is under Commonwealth control. Between Garden Island and Point Peron there is a gap of about li miles. The Government proposes to build the causeway at this point, thus enclosing to the south and to the east a huge area of water which, I am advised, is one of the few natural deep water ports in the world. I am giving these facts because they illustrate the area where it is proposed to build this base. There is a significant quantity of heavy and light industry in the area such as an oil refinery, an alumina plant, a BHP rolling mill, a nickel refinery, a fertiliser works and a number of associated and separate light industries. Of course, in this is the western end of the great standard guage railway. Those industries, I might be permitted to say, are there as the result of the actions of Liberal-Country Party governments in Western Australia. The site of this base is at present a growing and significant commercial port which ships wet and dry bulk cargoes. Thus the facilities suggested by the Government will be in line with its stated policy of linking defence and national development together where possible. 
Nearby there is the residential area of Rockingham, which is an old established area and indeed is the fastest growing zone in the Perth metropolitan area. As at June of last year its population was 15,000 and it is estimated to have a population of 20,000 at the end of next month. The State Government has committed itself to providi ng a great deal of public expenditure in this area. It has promised services to industries, a primary school to be completed for 1971 and a high school for 1972, and also a hospital for that time. A major banking group is investing $150m in housing to provide accommodation for 12.000 families So there is also great private expenditure. 
The responsibilities giving rise to this base which the Australian governments must recognise are the responsibilities of strategic and tactical defence in the Ind:an Ocean. There has been a great deal of debate in this House in relation to the activities of the Russian navy in that ocean. It has been shown that it has the capacity to keep fleets in the Indian Ocean for lengthy periods. It has shown its interest in this region in many ways, not only in naval terms but in its activity in the countries of South East Asia; it is expanding its diplomatic and economic interests. Although the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has at present long supply lines in different countries, the growing interest indicates to us that it is doing its best to minimise this difficulty. The United Kingdom withdrawal from that area is occurring at the moment, and it is surely not in the interests of this country that another major power should be substituted for the Un;ted Kingdom. Of course, our influence on those events is limited. We cannot stop the Russians from building up their forces in the Indian Ocean, if that is their desire, but on the other hand it is not for us to ignore such activity because the USSR has shown a belligerent attitude to this country for some years. 
The Indian Ocean is of great strategic Interest to Australia. I refer to the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently when he said: 
We must take into account other Indian Ocean activities in our defence policies and planning. 
Western Australia has 2,000 miles of coastline. It is also 2,000 miles from Cockburn Sound to Sydney Harbour. The setting up of a large naval base is fundamental to the interests of Australia. I would like to deal with this expansion with some detail. There has been a committee investigating the plans of naval bases around the coastline of Australia. It has been meeting for some time and I would seek that committee's conclusions and recommendations at the earliest possible date. I would also request the Minister for Defence to urge that committee to give top priority to making an early decision so that an urgent start can be made on implementing these plans. May I offer congratulations to the Government for taking, in terms of the policy speech promises, this first step on the road towards a 2-ocean navy. Just what '2-ocean Navy' means is, of course, a question of definition. I draw attention to the points that this is the first naval base on the west coast of Australia which is subject to the great distance to which I referred. Having this base on the west coast will save perhaps 4,000 or 5,000 miles, in distance from Sydney Harbour to the west coast and back again. It would also save time and cost and will increase the capacity of each naval ship in the Indian Ocean area. 
Of course, this area provides a superior anchorage and it may be used as a base for men on leave. As I have said, this is a step forward. 1 understand that initially it is contemplated that the base may hold 4 frigates and 3 submarines. In that connection, I woul'd press the Government for a steady growth of this base so that it will become a significant naval base sooner than the 10 years which has been suggested. I would also press for the stationing of more vessels at Cockburn Sound than appears to be contemplated. I suggest that more fast combat ships should be stationed there and that there should be an increase of perhaps 3 or 4 vessels in the submarine fleet for this purpose. I believe this action should be urgently pursued, as should the designing of the light destroyers. A sense of urgency needs to be imposed by the Government to ensure their earliest possible construction. Arising out of naval power in the west, is the whole question of the evaluation of air power in our defence forces. A decision has to be made as to how much of our air power is . to be connected with the sea and how much is to be land based. The maritime power in the Indian Ocean to be exerted by Australia is by both sea and air. HMAS Melbourne', as we know, will be out of service in 19S0. This emphasises the need for an evaluation as to what type of ships and what type of naval air capacity will be necessary and what form it will take. No doubt the Government is considering this matter but I hope it wilt come to an early conclusion about the need for air strike capacity. Perhaps it will decide to build carriers which could take the Harrier aircraft. 
As I said, the whole question of strategic and tactical air strike capacity is raised. Of course, a responsible Government must fix priorities in relation to the vast sums of money involved in building a defence force in order to get the best return for money. I ask for a full and thorough evaluation but, nevertheless, I hope the Government will achieve an early result and come to an early decision. Naval forces and naval bases are a long time in the making. These should be planned and built wi.h some continuing sense of urgency and determination. In conclusion, I would like to say that thinking people in Western Australia welcome the establishment of this base at Cockburn Sound. It has been widely felt that not enough consideration has been given to defence in Western Australia. This project and the upgrading of the Learmonth airfield to an operational base by lengthening, widening and deepening the airstrip will go far in alleviating their concern. In the past they have felt cut off from Australian defence efforts and have even felt isolated. This proposal, urgently dealt with, will help defend and re-establish our nation. The sooner it is done the better. 
I ask the Treasurer: With a view to allaying unnecessary concern and speculation on the state of the Australian economy will he say how long he expects the present relatively illiquid state of the economy to continue? 
 The Western Australian Government was the first to co-operate with it. 
This Bill will give effect to the Government's intention to make available up to $25 m over a period of 4 years for implementation of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. Tabled with the Bill is an Agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Western Australia which will come into force immediately this Bill is enacted by Parliament. 
The Minister has said what the Bill will do. He went on to say why it was necessary, and I wish to quote a few short extracts from his speech so as to bring them into context with my remarks. He said: 
The sum total of a limited home market and an over-supplied world market means that, despite the continuation of the Government subvention of $27m per annum for butter and cheese, the equalised return to producers declined from 47.1c per lb butterfat in 1964-65 to an estimated 41.3c for the current year. Over the same period costs have risen by  161%  according to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, index of prices paid by farmers. The net farm income of producers in the dairying industry has suffered severely. 
In order to emphasise the figures I will read part of that again: 
. the equalised return to producers declined from 47.1c per lb butterfat in 1964-65 to an estimated 41.3c for the current year. Over the same period costs have risen by 16J%. . . , 
The Minister also said:   . . there are a substantial number of dairy farmers who. due to inadequate farm size or capital limitation or to a variety of other intractable problems, have not been able to keep pace with the changes that arc going on in the industry. The economic examination of the dairy industry conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in 1964 shows that the average net farm income throughout the industry in Australia over the period sun-eyed - 1961-62 to 1963-64 - was $2,400. At the time, some 55% of all dairy farmers earned a net farm income of less than $2,000 per annum. In the manufacturing sector of the industry, that is among those producers who do not have access to the higher priced fluid milk market, the situation was even worse. 
The Minister went on to outline what the Bill is designed to do in order to effect changes. He said: 
The objectives of the Commonwealth scheme are twofold: To enable low income dairy farmers who voluntarily wish to do so to leave the industry and to receive a fair price for their land and improvements- 
I believe that that is a laudable aim -  and, after the writing-off of redundant assets, to make the land and useful improvements available to other farmers so as to build up their properties to a viable family farm level and, where possible, diversifying the pattern of land use. 
The reason why I chose to read those extracts is that they describe very well the situation that, exists in my electorate. The incomes that are described would be very close to the incomes received by people in my electorate. 1 would say at this stage that my electorate is probably the one that is most affected by the Bill as it stands at present. I believe that I have at least 90% of the dairy farmers in Western Australia in my electorate and, as the Bill stands, Western Australia is the only State that has chosen to come in under it. 
I address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. It relates to his answer yesterday to a question concerning a  Mr Vrettos,  an Australian citizen at present in Athens. Has the Minister seen a report this morning which alleges that  Mr Vrettos  has claimed that he had been tortured and that until yesterday morning he had received from the Australian Consul in Greece very little assistance? Has the Minister any further information that he can give to the House on this matter? 
As the honourable member for Curtin I think it is appropriate for me to refer to the unveiling of a memorial bust of the wartime Prime Minister, John Curtin, in my electorate last Friday. I am sure the House would be interested in the circumstances. It was unveiled by  His Excellency,  the Governor in the presence of  Mrs Curtin,  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  The memorial is a bronze bust, one and a half times life size in three-dimensional shape, not simply in relief. It stands in the grounds of the Cottesloe civic centre in front of the War Memorial Hall on a 7-foot granite plinth in the centre of an ornamental pool which is floodlit, a fountain playing to the base of the statue. The memorial bust faces the house where John Curtin lived in Cottesloe, only a quarter of a mile away. The house overlooks the Indian Ocean. The bust was commissioned and produced in clay and was carefully assessed before work proceeded. It was successfully cast in bronze on 24th April of this year. Casting is, of course, a delicate art, no less than other arts and it was done by Peter Gelencser, a Perth sculptor and artist. The bust is agreed by all to be an excellent likeness. This is a high quality memorial. 

 Mrs Curtin still lives with her family in Cottesloe. Honourable members will be aware that she was recently made a Commander of the British Empire. She attended the unveiling ceremony with her son John Curtin and her grandson of the same name. The former Prime Minister is buried in Karrakatta cementery, only 3 miles away. Although John Curtin died 25 years ago last July few memorials to him have been erected in Australia. Perhaps the most notable of them is the John Curtin School of Medicine. To my knowledge the memorial bust at Cottesloe is the only one erected solely for the purpose of honouring John Curtin. A district fund was initiated by the Claremont and Cottesloe Rotary Club and the town of Cottesloe. When I last heard of the fund's progress about SI, 000 had been raised. The inscription on the base of the statue is the tribute paid to John Curtin by General Douglas MacArthur. It reads: 
The man I called the heart and soul of Australia. 
The people of the Cottesloe region felt the need to associate John Curtin with the area in which he had lived for so many years. This fine memorial preserves his fame and the people's memory of him. Party politics are laid aside in honouring John Curtin. He is accepted as a man who strove mightily for the welfare of all Australians as he viewed that welfare. He believed deeply in truth and justice and mercy among men. Politics was to him a conflict of ideas and not a sordid struggle by personalities for cheap gains. His political views and administration could be challenged by his opponents but it was unthinkable to attack the man, his ideals, sincerity jnd integrity. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. Since Fiji is to become an independent nation in a few weeks can he inform the House what diplomatic and trade relations are envisaged with Australia and what representation Australia will have at the forthcoming celebrations and the South Pacific Commission? 
In discussing the size of a quorum, I do not believe that there is any right or wrong about a particular figure. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  suggested that the quorum should be half the total number of members of the House plus 1. He suggested that if the number were fewer the Executive could constitute a quorum. Where would the Opposition be, not having answered the call to come to Canberra? If one takes that argument to its logical conclusion, the Government which, by definition, must have half the total number of members plus 1 could pass legislation and the Opposition could stay away and it would not make any difference to the result. I put that argument aside. 
My first point is that there is no magic about any proportion of a body of men forming a quorum. What we have before us is a Bill which seeks to reduce from one-third to one-fifth the proportion of elected members who shall constitute a quorum because, by trial and error and by experience the House has found that it is inconvenient to have quorums called, to have bells rung and to have members coming into the chamber to make up the present quorum of one-third. It is inconvenient and a waste of time, not because people are lethargic or are engaged in pursuits in which they ought not to be engaged but because, as every honourable member knows, they are engaged in other duties outside the chamber. They are seeing constituents, making telephone calls, doing research, writing speeches and spending time in the Library. Honourable members know, as well as I do, the calls made on a member's time and what he has to fit into the time he spends in this building, which I suggest is busy from 9 a.m. till midnight each sitting day. 
There is a need to consider the size of a quorum. Through experience we have found that there is a need to reduce the size to one-fifth in order to keep the business of the House going. We know also that when important matters are debated and when a member delivers a good speech the House fills. People are interested in the conduct of affairs in this chamber. If the quality of speech and debate is good, there will be satisfactory attendance. 
Many arguments have been put. The mover of the amendment suggested that the notes here could be compared with the decision made by a jury. A jury has an entirely different function from that of members who sit in a legislative chamber. A jury has to resolve its interpretation of the facts beyond reasonable doubt, whereas we sit to decide political matters and to make judgments on matters of policy. We sit for days on end and consider a wide variety of subjects. No member would claim to have special knowledge or expert knowledge on all those subjects. 
So, I come to the point that the amendment contains a proposal not to reduce the number of members required in a division - that is the definition of a quorum - from one-third to one-fifth. There can hardly be any great magic about this. Somebody made an eloquent plea in which he said: 'If you reduce the proportion to one-fifth, you will need only 25 members. which means that 13 members can decide a question'. That is true. On the other hand, if, as the amendment proposes, you need only 42 members, that means that only 22 members can decide a question. So, there is no magic of right or wrong in this question of a quorum. It is surely a figure that has to be determined by what the House knows as a result of all its experience - it has plenty of experience in these matters - to be reasonable. 
Someone made the plea that matters of great importance can be put through this chamber with small numbers present. Important matters involving imposts and civil liberties are put through this chamber. On many of the occasions on which that happens, this chamber is almost filled with people taking an interest in those matters. Likewise, it is misleading to suggest that because a member is not in this chamber he does not know what is going on here or what, in all likelihood, will be the result of the measure, because matters are debated throughout the country and around this building for days, weeks and even months before they come to a vote, in many cases the result is a foregone conclusion. 
The amendment suggests that we should have a different proportion for a quorum for a sitting of the House than for a quorum in a division. I consider that such a distinction is unnecessary. A variation in the general quorum exists nowhere else. I believe that the suggestions made to the effect that members will not be responsible are false. From my experience in the time I have been here, I believe that members are responsible and that they take a deep interest in what happens here. When a division is called for, all the members who are in the building will come into this chamber. So an increase in the proportion needed for a quorum in a division is irrelevant. For all those reasons. I believe that there is no necessity to have a different quorum in divisions from that required for a sitting of the House. I support the Bill, and 1 oppose the amendment. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. With the appalling examples of international piracy and destruction of 4 passenger aircraft at Cairo and in Jordan in the last 4 days, involving violence, seizure and international lawlessness without elementary regard to private rights, common decency or law and order, does the Minister propose any special measures in respect of Australia's overseas airline or domestic airlines to meet any political or crank attempts to hijack Australian aircraft? 
The interests of the Commonwealth of Australia in its relations with other countries are almost entirely determined by this Parliament. From time to time trips are made abroad on official business by Ministers, by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  by back bench members and by members of the Opposition. There are delegations to various parliamentary associations, including the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and other groups and general fact finding tours which have been, I think, in the main to South East Asian countries. I am making an observation and a plea m the debate tonight for more official groups of ordinary members of this Parliament to make tours to other countries. The countries I have in mind are those which are most important to us in trade and in foreign affairs, namely, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Japan and New Zealand. They are the countries which most readily come to mind but that list will grow. 
I think that honourable senators and honourable members of this House who visit those countries should have an opportunity not merely to meet the heads of Government and Ministers and their public servants, important though that may be, but most important of all to meet the ordinary members of Parliament. I know that some members of the public and the Press have criticised past  trips  and no doubt will go on criticising any future trips, but this is an important suggestion because these countries have a close and growing association with Australia in trade - after all, we are the tenth trading nation of the world - and in defence where we have defence arrangements or, I might suggest, potential defence arrangements. Surely Australia needs increasing trade and certainly needs friends. As honourable members will be aware the United States has a different basic constitution and a separation exists between the legislature and the Executive; yet Congress is of crucial importance to us in Australia, especially its attitude to foreign affairs and certainly its attitude to the existence of trade barriers. 
I have had the good fortune to visit the United States twice. In 1968 I spent 6 or 7 weeks in New York, Washington, and in the New York State capital ot Albany. I had the opportunity to see at first hand the members there - the congressmen, members of the House of Representatives and senators - and to see for myself their ability and intelligence, which, indeed, they have, though much to the contrary is written of  them.  I found them - both men and women - to be most interested in Australia and in our policies and development. I think it is valid to say that they like what they see but they are not very well informed. It is natural that we as Australians should know more of the United States than they would know of us since it is the greatest economic and political power in the world today. For our own members to meet their numbers can do nothing but good for Australia. Government to Government negotiations are in themselves not good enough for Australia's interests. I hasten to add that this is in no way a criticism of the contacts between the United States Government and our representatives through the Department of External Affairs and the Department of Trade and Industry. But they are hedged by protocol and must contract the United States government in an official capacity. Our members, in talking as politicians to politicians with an understanding of government, politics and the representational aspects of political life whether it be arranged by tours, discussions or even seminars and the provision of reciprocal invitations, could certainly cut down misunderstandings and better their knowledge. I have heard, as no doubt all honourable members have, references made by these people to Australia from time to time which show basic misunderstandings of Australia's attitudes and values and our determination on matters which we think are fundamental. 
I think it is the fault of all. It is well that people in other countries for their past should understand our own personal qualities, that we mean what we say and that we intend to stick to our agreements. May we as a country ever deserve that reputation. Of course, personalities do not change the basic strategic or economic facts. There is still much room, however, to exchange views and in my judgment in speaking with members of the legislative bodies of 3 of the countries that I have mentioned, while there are commercial interests and electoral interests in which they are involved, in their attitudes many have an international outlook and some altruism which is the mixture of influences and motives of which we are keenly aware in our own Parliament. 
There is an understandable impression by older and larger countries that other methods and standards are inferior to their own. I have experienced that attitude in some fields. We can help dispel that belief in many areas by acquainting them of the real position and I know them to be intelligent enough and willing enough to grasp the point quickly. Our foreign policy views, the sides of the debate on great issues which are carried on in this country and our case for allowing great imports - in the case of the United States in meat, sugar and wool - are examples of matters which would be discussed between members. A recent example was the misunderstanding, as I believe it was, of the standards of our meat exported to the United States where ultimately Australia proposed a compromise in the regulations. There is naturally on the part of our own members inadequate knowledge of the problems, facts and policies of the parliaments of the 4 countries I have mentioned - the United States, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Japan - and each of them is of great importance to us. 
There are large gaps in the knowledge and a generalisation of their conditions accepted here even by the best informed people and, conversely, this applies equally if not more so to members of their parliaments. I suggest that to understand them better would enable us to be closer to those countries. I think it is widely accepted that better relations and understandings exist between countries where there is a free flow of travellers. Because of their position, for members of Parliament to travel and obtain information would place them in a position to be able to use that information. It would be used better and more quickly because we are more directly connected with Government administration and policy. And it would have the most important objective of our being able to reach grass roots political opinion in those other countries. It is a matter which cuts both ways and no doubt there is much that we can learn in standards, productive methods, efficiency and quality. I know some areas in which we can learn but in some others we are simply underestimated abroad. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  emphasised the need for co-operation in a speech to the AustralianAmerican Association a while ago and I put this forward as a positive suggestion to improve the knowledge, the exchange of information and the cooperation between major nations and ourselves. 
In looking at the Treasurer's estimates and considering the national taxation burden, it is clear that not only is taxation increasing but also that the rate of tax is increasing. The rate of tax per head in increasing in real terms. Hard as it is, increasing the rate of income tax and taxation remains easier than cutting down the functions of government and implementing greater efficiencies in the functions of government. The rate of expenditure at present and over recent years has risen whether one compares it with the growth in the gross national product, the growth in the population or the growth in the national income. That present rate of expenditure is a great one. Many people would say it is too great. Perhaps this country can afford to allocate so much expenditure at this time. T am persuaded by the fact that we have many skilled Treasury officers and the fact that the Commonwealth Government considers the Budget in great detail. As a result of this I am inclined to believe that the present rate of expenditure In Australia is justified. We have had and no doubt will continue to have for some time partypolitical criticism of the Budget by members of the Australian Labor Party and others on matters including education. There has been criticism by bodies that purport to represent education in this country and by numerous other bodies demanding more and more government services in health, education, defence, roads and social services. 
Very considerable, indeed vast, amounts of expenditure on services are demanded. We had an illustration of that earlier from the opposite side of the chamber. The question that arises is how can these demands be resisted or met by us as the people's elected representatives? Many electors say to each of us - it is their right to comment and question - that we should reduce taxation and the number of public servants. My reply is that the problem is not one of reducing taxation and the number of public servants but of trying to keep down the rate of increase by endeavouring to obtain greater efficiencies in the public services that are provided. I am concerned in these few remarks to touch on the problems of the rate of increase of expenditure and the rate of increase in public services, not only at the Commonwealth level but in the 3 levels of government, Commonwealth, State and local - because they are increasing today at a faster rate than ever before. In the long term we must face the fact that with an increase at a greater rate than the growth of our income or than the growth of our population we must sooner or later reach a saturation level because we cannot continue having a greater rate of increase of public servants. I think it is right that we as members of Parliament and all thinking people in this country should dwell on the subject. 
The Budget that we have before us allocates between competing priorities the revenue which is raised. We cannot have lower taxation and a higher expenditure; that is obvious. But it is often ignored and ignoring it prevents us from getting down to the next and realistic level of the way to improve the situation. Successful improvement in this rate will not be a one shot exercise but a continuing process - a procedure and a government and parliament programme. I suggest firstly that in seeking funds we must look to see whether there are areas of expenditure which can be reduced or eliminated where for historical, social or economic reasons that expenditure would be better spent elsewhere. Secondly we must look into the methods of providing incentives to Government employees, providing work satisfaction by removing drudgery and unimportant tasks, by improving efficiency, by providing less paper work and removing unnecessary internal controls. Could we not implement controls and supervision methods that would apply if the work load were 100 times greater than it is at present and thus test its real value. 
I am pleased to know that the Commonwealth Treasury has sections which are dealing in part with these processes. They carry out research into the origin and evolution of governmental precedures They have sections which undertake research into the application of management accounting techniques and analyse departmental expenditure, compare the relative operational costs of departments and isolate and measure differences in performance. These sections develop standards for guidance of Treasury divisions responsible for the examination and review of departmental estimates. They analyse growth movements and other fluctuations in departmental estimates and expenditure, provide reports and advice to Treasury divisions for the examination and review of departmental estimates and develop appropriate techniques for analysis and interpretation of data. We must try  10  get more value for the money we are spending. It is not always true in looking, for example, at education or health that twice the expenditure results in twice the benefit. 
I point out that the Australian Labor Party in advocating greater Commonwealth control of every aspect of the economy, still contains in its platform a prominent objective in the nationalisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange - a definition which covers just about all there is and inevitably involves large rises in taxation. A review of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on the Budget makes that certain. The trade unions recently repeatedly demanded income tax reductions before the Budget was announced with an insistence the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party should reflect on. Whether one believes in much greater Commonwealth government control of every aspect of the economy, a centralised planning and takeover of government and business in this country as does the Australian Labor Party, or whether one believes, as do the Government parties, in the minimum of government intervention and regulation, and only then when public interest is justifiably involved, there remains a serious problem to be tackled. It is one to which there is no easy solution but I believe Australians have a capacity for solving problems to which they put their minds. After all this is a problem with which every highly developed economy, Western or Communist, has to deal. We must use the wealth of individualism and initiative by providing incentives and guidance to cut inefficiencies and the impersonality of centralised planning. Anyone who has involved himself in a close study or a discipline has known the experience of grappling with a complex problem to which there appears no simple solution and, after much fret and work, finding what then appears an obvious solution. It is to such a task that we as a Parliament and as individual members should bend in effort. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has just given a not untypical speech on New Guinea. He based his speech for the most part on a report or a review of progress prepared by the direction of the Administrator of the Territory and drew attention to items in that report to which he objected. Any objective report would show some shortcomings. He drew on a few isolated statistics which, I think the record will show, he drew right out of context. I do not think that is very helpful. I do not think that so little research helps the Parliament and the country to understand the problems which exist in the Territory. These usual criticisms amount, in the main, to the restriction of finance, and we always seem to get back to discussing money in our debates. Surely the Leader of the Opposition - the Leader of the Australian Labor Party - will not, in discussing the estimates of the Department of External Territories, add to his already vast proposals of increased expenditure which he built up in his reply to the Budget Speech. 
More important than this are his statements on questions in the past, and I propose to join issue with him on several of those points because I want to put to the Committee certain political and economic facts relating to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in a realistic context. He speaks as though there are few problems to our merely granting self-government, but for goodness sake let us be responsible, for we now have a responsibility in this particular area. Let us face the reality and try to help the people of New Guinea in words and deeds, not spoil the development, to which I shall soon refer, by encouraging inflammatory situations and encouraging disruption and retrogressive action when he tours this sensitive Territory. It is right for us to ask what good his visit did last December for the people of New Guinea. Did it do any good in their interests or did it do harm? I believe that the people of Australia have come to the conclusion that it was the latter, and they are not proud of it. 
The major problem which the Government faces in its present administration of the Territory lies in the pressures which are being exerted for the definition of dates for home rule and for independence. In principle, I think that the Government's announced policy is a very correct one - that is, that it is the people themselves who must decide when they want home rule and when they want independence rather than having these things imposed upon them by the administering authority. The practical difficulty, however, derives from the fact that we have here a great number of disparate tribal groups with the concept of national unity understood and subscribed to by the relatively educated few. The roughly 2 million indigenes employ some 750 different languages. Fragmentation occurs also because of the topography of the country, traditional self-sufficiency and tribal warfare. It is difficult to avoid oversimplification but, in broad terms, we can view the people as consisting of the more sophisticated coastal races and the less sophisticated, down to completely primitive, highlanders and back country tribes. 
The coastal people of Papua to the south, of the Gazelle Peninsula in New Britain and of the Madang and Morobe districts on the north coast of New Guinea have, for a relatively long time, been exposed to modern living and administration. They have also had some opportunity for education; first, at schools established by several Christian missions and, more recently, at Administration schools. Development in other parts of the Territory and, more particularly education, has come post-war and quite recently. It can be seen instantly, therefore, that if home rule were imposed in the immediate future the more sophisticated and educated coastal people would very largely control government and public service and, perhaps, army, leaving the highlanders, in particular, as an unrepresented and highly resentful part of the community. The highland tribes themselves, of course, manifest antipathy between each other, and this is historical, but in the situation that we are now looking at they would be capable of establishing some cohesion to react against what they would regard as an inimical government. Other animosities exist between the coastal races themselves and between them and the island peoples. 
Within the limits of this speech, the foregoing is an over simplified exposition naturally, but it is at the practical root, I believe, of the Government's disinclination to impose target dates, and that accounts for its policy - which is correct, in my view, on both philosophical and pragmatic grounds - to expedite development throughout the Territory so that, when the people determine for home rule, there will be, first, some prospect of a national outlook; secondly, some prospect for cohesion against secession movements - there are at least 4 active in Bougainville, the Gazelle, the Highlands and Papua - and personal ambitions for leadership, but perhaps they can form together a federation; and, thirdly, some prospects of government under a democratic system rather than relapse into army or political dictatorship under some strong man, a few of whom can be seen today striving mightily with the cry. Immediate independence'. 
The people need time to form political ideas, to form a consensus view of political institutions, to build confidence in a political system and not by despair to resign themselves to a dictatorship government. The character and capacity of the people are apparent to all who visit the Territory and the battles of Kokoda attest to their loyal to and support for our people in the Sixth Division of the Australian Imperial Forces in their great time of need. 
Independence means different things to different people. I wish to emphasise that there can be no true and full independence, whatever the political situation, without economic independence. The Territory of Papua and New Guinea has, understandably, far too small an economy of its own. Its income is merely 30 per cent of its expenditure. A need exists therefore for much more work and entrepreneural endeavour by New Guineans and indigenes themselves as a matter of urgency. Australia's growing expenditure - very considerable as it has been - cannot and should not continue to support such a high proportion of the total revenue expenditure, though no doubt our contribution will and should increase steadily each year in the existing conditions. I hope that in the public debate on independence fundamental economic facts will not be ignored. 
Only in economic independence will there be true independence. It is easy, of course, to criticise Australia's administration. But it has been a good administration and the public servants are, in the main, men and women dedicated to the job that they are doing. A considerable emphasis is placed today on economic development, lt may be that this should have come earlier. Education, I believe, should have earlier concentrated on developing primary and secondary training and entrepreneural skills rather than education for tertiary services, for in highly developed economies tertiary skill can be and is afforded last and rests squarely on national production itself. The main difficulty is that the economy rests essentially on the Australian grant and on cash crops. Virtually all of the cash crops such as cottee, cocoa and copra are vulnerable on the world markets. 
There is probably very little prospect of securing a viable economy on an agricultural basis, though it may come in the long term. It has become extremely important, however, that agriculture be developed so that the country may feed itself on a decent standard, and a great deal of endeavour is directed accordingly. The major problem is to convert the country from the diet consisting mainly of either locally grown carbohydrates or imported protein to a home grown balanced diet. Very little meat or even fish is eaten and pigs are a sign of wealth only to be eaten in special ceremonies. While bananas and fruit abound in some areas, the people live in most areas on sago, sweet potato, yams and taro. The development of cattle in the Highlands to provide meat is of fundamental importance, therefore, to diet and to the economy through better land use. 
For a sound economy, the country must look to mineral development and, I think, to forest products. There is every hope of the future turning out well. Bougainville copper is fairly close to the production stage and little doubt exists that the copper ore bodies in the Western and West Sepik districts will be developed. Petroleum gas has been discovered and there is some thought that nickel may be available in commercial quantities. Until this kind of development proceeds, however, the Government's task must include the more rapid development of surface transport facilities, not only for economic reasons but also for the social development than can be secured only by road systems. This is being pushed as quickly as possible, to a large extent with funds from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
Our problems thus lie in many areas but, in broad terms, the problems are: First, economic development; secondly, political education; thirdly, development of a national outlook; fourthly, the training, at least, of top level public service administrators; and, fifthly, ensuring participation in business by indigenes. It is probable that, while all of these can be achieved, they will not come exactly in the same phase. Political concepts are largely unknown even il&gt;  educated people and this  will  cause  difficulty for a considerable time. Indigenous participation  in  business is difficult obviously because this again is a new concept to so many indigenes but also because  it  does go against the interests - or, at least, the short term interests - of overseas companies and small business men. Nonetheless, all these problems are being tackled and, against the overall plan, specific difficulties simply must be resolved as they arise. 
There are numerous other interesting questions and problems on which I have no time to touch. These include land use and tenure with the problems of inheritance, the further problems of developing social progress and the economy given the influence of an extensive village social life, and cargo-cultism which pervades the country everywhere to some degree. 
To sum up, I would say that Australia's position has to be that the people in Papua and New Guinea can have home rule and independence whenever they decide that they want it, secure in the knowledge that Australian assistance, in terms of money, advice and technical and administrative know-how - and we have built up expertise and experience in this less developed country - will continue for as long as the people want it and circumstances remain reasonable. It will be for Australia probably a thankless task internationally and internally. 
Does the Prime Minister favour, as has often been advocated, the televising of parliamentary proceedings? 
We have just heard from the 2 spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party the usual complaints and demands for ever increasing expenditure on another avenue, in this case housing. Naturally the Government has a responsibility, as it is responsible for the guidance of the economy of this country, to see that proper priorities are arranged and that funds are made available for and are channelled into housing according to the amount which the economy can stand and which it is physically possible to use in building. I just want to take up one or two of the points which have been made, particularly by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  because he turned his back on the responsibility of providing balance in the economy by just touching on 2 points affected, namely, levels of employment and general price levels in the economy. These matters are bound up with the monetary and fiscal policies of the Government. When the Government sees a need to reduce the level of demand in the community in order to provide as much stability as can responsibly be provided in price levels and employment levels it can affect demand throughout the community. One aspect affected will be the commencements of new buildings. 
The honourable member referred to a stop-go policy. The economy of any industrialised and sophisticated country such as Australia is a very complicated machine. How else other than by a stop-go method could one drive a car in heavy traffic? That is a very apt analogy to the management of an economy such as Australia's. It is necessary from time to time to put in a few nips and at other times to inject funds in various ways in order to preserve a balance. I shall not now deal with this because it is a very complicated field. Were it otherwise, the Labor Party would be the first to complain of a buildup in unemployment or of prices and inflation generally being allowed to rise beyond acceptable levels. There can never be enough supply to answer the demand of people for housing. J am aware, as all honourable members are, of needs in many areas. Sections of Melbourne and Sydney in particular contain poor housing. It is a pity that more honourable members do not visit some of these areas to acquaint themselves with the problem. To put matters into perspective, we have to realise that these areas are relatively small compared with the total areas of the suburbs in this country. The honourable member for Stirling referred to certain statistics for building in Western Australia of which I have some knowledge. Everyone in this House knows that Western Australia and Perth in particular have seen in the last few years a tremendous building programme. It has been said to be approaching boom conditions. With that great demand it is natural that there will be fluctuations from time to time particularly when it is necessary, for totally different reasons, for the monetary policy to soak up surplus funds and prevent demand building up to unacceptable heights. The honourable member concluded by referring to the amendment before the House for yet another inquiry. Whenever the Opposition is unable to formulate a policy with any definition, we have a demand for another inquiry. Why is it that if things are as bad as previous speakers have said the Opposition cannot suggest some specific action that should be taken instead of just making general demands for more housing and higher standards? 
One matter which was alluded to today was that of general land prices throughout Australia. Certainly this is a matter which must engage the attention of anyone who is interested in housing. It is easy to criticise rising land prices, but it is worth pointing out that this is a world wide phenomenon which has occurred in all communities but mainly in industrial com munities. It is in part the consequence of growth of an economy and of the wealth of an area. Land prices are more stable now. If we look at the criticisms which are made from time to time by those not in government and who have not the responsibility of government, the usual solutions proposed are that there ought to be large scale resumptions, which clearly affect individual rights which Australians correctly expect and maintain. We have suggestions of price control, which brings about a great deal of artificiality and, incidentally, black markets, with the price set becoming invariably the minimum. 
Another solution that is proposed and with which I am in a little sympathy is the making available of more land. But if we look closely at any metropolitan area map we will find that there is really not a lot of land available. This is obviously a short term solution, although I think at times a solution which could answer a particular need. Nevertheless, with Australian cities building as they do and sprawling out into tremendous distances, with a contrast that is quite noticeable when one travels overseas, there is great demand for services such as length of piping, sewerage, water and electricity. So that general calls for more housing, lower costs and improvement in environment do not get us very far forward. We have to see the whole thing in context and try to make suggestions of differences in emphasis and in priorities rather than bringing forth, as any member could, an odd complaint or a general criticism. 
The number of dwelling units completed in the year 1969-70 totalled 140,000- a tremendous number. In the year to come there will be an increase of 2,000 or 3,000. Perhaps the total number of dwellings completed this year will be 143,000  -  no mean figure. Honourable members may say that it should be more. I suggest that that does not get us very much further forward. In addition to the cost of houses themselves there is a considerable cost in providing services by State government and local government bodies. When one calls for an improvement in standards and environment, which it is quite proper for anyone to do, one must always remember that it will involve more cost and that the additional expenditure in meeting that cost will have to be taken from something else. 
Really the problem of housing comes down to a problem of finance and of economic capacity or the physical capacity of the labour force in Australia. The Commonwealth Government in the year 1970-71 will provide $288m, being a 10 per cent increase over the previous year, for the financing of housing. That is a large sum. That of course is by no means the total expenditure. That is the Commonwealth Government's contribution, from the total allocation for all needs and all the demands on the Commonwealth Budget, for this very necessary aspect of life. When one talks of increasing housing and increasing finance it must always be remembered that there is not always in any given area enough physical labour to build more houses in a given period. There have been a number of cases where demands have been made for additional funds for housing and there just have not been enough additional tradesmen available to carry out the work to any significant extent. If money is poured into housing and if demand completely outstrips the physical capability to build, inflation will result. Building costs will rise because there is demand - because money is available but there are insufficient resources to meet that demand. The housing problem, like so many other avenues of government, is not capable of a one hit solution. There is need for a continuing effort, and I think some of the suggestions made by earlier speakers are under the eye of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabella Rankin)  and her Department will continue to be. It is a continuing effort; indeed it is a challenging effort. 
The Government has done a number of praiseworthy things in relation to housing. In closing I mention the homes savings grant scheme, which has been a tremendous success. It provides, as honourable members know, a tax free grant for young couples under the age of 36 years who have saved for their first matrimonial home over a 3-year period. It is aimed at encouraging saving; it is a reward for saving. It is also increasing the funds available for housing on a long term basis. During the financial year 1969-70, 28,800 grants were made, totalling $12m. Of the applications received 86 per cent were approved, and the majority of them were for the full amount of $500. It is a substantial and worthwhile contribution to young people saving in order to bridge, as it is called, the second mortgage finance gap which was alluded to by the honourable member for Stirling. Under this scheme, which has been in operation since 1964, 174,000 grants have been made and $7 5m has been paid out. The total value of a house and land which may attract a grant has been increased from the $14,000 at the commencement of the scheme to the recently announced figure of $17,500. It has been suggested from time to time that this is not a very large amount, but I put it to the Committee that it is an acceptable amount for those in the community who have need and who are prepared to save. In spite of all the figures produced, the average value of house and land for which grants were made in 1969- 70, as is shown in the interim statement of the Secretary of the Department of Housing, was $11,600. So I draw attention again to this scheme, which is criticised from time to time but which has provided most substantial amounts to help in the financing of housing, lt is a scheme operating to the benefit of young persons. As honourable members know, operating for aged persons is the Aged Persons Homes Act, which gives help to elderly people who are in need. 
I propose to take up in the course of my remarks the points the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has just made, but before 1 do that I will give an outline of the main features of this Bill dealing with convertible notes. As has been mentioned, the distinction we are drawing here affects the deductibility of interest payable on convertible notes by companies which can convert them in due course to equity shares and which thereupon will pay dividends. Of course, those dividends are not deductible for income tax purposes. 
Yes. I am talking about the deductibility of interest on convertible notes which is a deduction in the accounts of a company and therefore results in less company income tax - primary tax - being paid to Commonwealth revenue. As has been said, in 1960 all this interest was deductible without hindrance. There were no hedges at all. The result was that many companies availed themselves of this opportunity, particularly in 1959 and 1960, and perhaps 99 per cent of those issues were devised purely for the purpose of obtaining the income tax deduction. They were convertible note issues which amounted to deferred equity share issues. The Government announced at that time, when incidentally other measures were taken in what is now known as the credit squeeze, that it would make a change, but it made the distinction that this would be a change to the permanent law and not simply a temporary measure. These measures were introduced into this House on 15th November 1960. What was then happening was legal avoidance of company income tax which was costing the revenue substantial amounts. 
The opinion of the Government was that little or nothing was being received in the national interest in exchange. 
So a review has been held, as set out in the second reading speech, in order to devise means whereby advantages which did accrue from such an allowance could be obtained without, on the other hand, allowing easy exploitation. Criteria have been set in this Bill to cover issues of convertible notes, which normally would be issues of debentures and which in a given time would be convertible to ordinary shares, when substantial reasons can be given for such issues in the public interest. 
The reasons are twofold. Firstly, there are many genuine cases when a company can start a business, or some new aspect of its operations, with good prospects but without a prospect of being able to service, in the early period and perhaps early years, dividends on the new capital as equity shares. If a company issues convertible notes in the early years, cheaper money is often available because it is more attractive to investors to be able to place it. The company can give better conditions for such an issue knowing that it will receive a deduction for the interest payable on those notes during their currency. When they become shares, as I said previously, the dividends payable to shareholders will not be deductible. There are a number of such companies which develop the resources of this country. Much of the development of this kind is slow and the profits are some years in coming. Yet those companies normally would rely on loan funds rather than equity in the form of debentures in order to finance their operations. 
The second reason for requiring such legislation - I mention this now because the earlier  speaker  in this debate, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned, somewhat darkly, that there were pressures on the Government - is that if you make it more attractive for investors in Australia to make such investments you will minimise - this is the point I have to meet - the amount of foreign capital that will come into Australia in the form of certain investments. This will allow not significantly more but a little more Australian participation because it would be a more favourable investment. I take it that it is common ground that Australia needs investment from overseas in such large quantities because we do not have the capital here to put into projects which open up our resources. The Government and honourable members on the Government side of the chamber would take the view that the cost being paid at present for this overseas capital is justifiable in the overall interest. At the same time that investment must be paid for by way of royalties, dividends and interest and the cost must be minimised at every opportunity. 
Thus this legislation will be a complementary part of the legislation passed by this House in connection with the setting up of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It also complements the overseas borrowing guide lines announced recently in this House. It is part of the Government's policy aimed at trying to minimise the cost of the overseas investment which we regard as fundamental to the development of Australia's resources. 
Those are the two principal reasons. The convertible notes which will be issued as a result of this legislation would be, in most cases, fixed interest investment that would exist anyway. Therefore, what the Government is doing will enable a structure whereby companies can convert ultimately to equity capital the loan funds which otherwise would have remained as debentures and been repaid on maturity or renewed, if that were possible in the finance market of that day. 
We are dealing, as has been said, with questions of judgment and policy. No black and white decisions are to be made in this area. This matter is not entirely clear; these complicated matters never are. The more I sit in this chamber the more it seems to me that fewer and fewer political questions can be determined clearly in one direction or another. At least this amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act will give a clear indication to the Commissioner of Taxation of how he should apply the law. In itself that is a commendable thing. It does not leave to him or to anyone else a discretion as to what ought to be done, or what is a good thing or what ought to be a charge on the revenue, as he is allowed in other areas. It makes quite clear how he should apply the law, what interest will be deductible and what will be nondeductible. As has been said, certain fences have been erected here. In other words, attempts have been made to minimise the types of issue on which such convertible notes can be made. 
I mention them briefly because they are contained in the documentation. Firstly, these options which are to be held by the convertible note holders are to be real options. They are to be at the opinion of the note holder. He can, if he wishes, not exercise the option and take the cash, which would place him in the position of the genuine debenture holder, a note holder. If he wishes he may take that cash back, which would be the position in the case of a debenture which did not have a convertible option. So he has a real choice. 1 refer not to the company but to the note holder. 
Secondly, the option itself must not be for longer than the term of the loan. The first 2 years of the term of the loan is the maximum time which will be allowed as the period in which the note holder cannot exercise the option. That is a period which might be called the 'maximum no option period'. That period will be set by the conditions of the issue. After that 2-year period he has a right to exercise it at any time up to within 12 months - and that again is the maximum period so it could be a lesser period - before the maturity of the loan. The option period itself must not be for longer than 10 years. The 10-year period again has been regarded, as a matter of judgment, as the period within which any undertaking ought to have reached profitability, and so it will be necessary under the terms that the company offers for the option and the period to have then come to an end, the loans to be repayable or to be converted into equity shares, whichever the note holder wishes. 
In the case of Australian note holders the term must be less than 7 years because that is regarded as a fair period in the case of a note holder who may be an investor without particular knowledge and probably without particular technical, managerial and entrepreneurial knowledge in the activities of the company concerned. That would be a period which would allow him time to make an assessment as to whether or not he should exercise this option. The Government is not concerned with the judgment formed by overseas investors and it therefore has not put that restriction on an overseas investor. This is an assistance to Australian investors and note holders and not a barrier - and I will deal with this matter later - which would help overseas investors. Also for Australian investors the issue must provide fixed terms and conditions at the beginning of the issue. These terms and conditions are not allowed to be changed. Of course if they were changed during the period of the loan the right to make a tax deduction would not exist. Therefore the advantage of the issue would go. For Australians the terms must remain fixed, though not for overseas investors. They may wish to enter into such an investment with the knowledge that the terms can be varied. They often are in international money markets. Frequently a loan is raised with a condition contingent upon international money market, some fixed market agreed upon and stated, varying up or down - and these days it always seems to be upwards. If such a variation occurred it would not affect the deductibility in Australia to overseas investors but it would certainly take away the deductibility if such a variation were made as against the Australian note holders. Those conditions which are made have been made in the interests of Australian investors. So one cannot turn around and say that this is a help to overseas investors. It is not really a tax matter for them. It is a matter of providing a safeguard to Australian investors which is not given to foreign investors. 
These options can be for new shares or for issued shares and can be in a variety of ways. The last main criterion is that the price at which the convertible notes are converted to shares must not be less than 90 per cent of market price or par or, alternatively, at valuation. A structure is set out for valuing in different circumstances. The procedure is there. These valuations are a minimum only. That criterion is to prevent any inducement or advantage being given on the option being taken up so that it is known from the beginning, in fairly precise terms, exactly what the value will be at the time the option is taken up. That full disclosure is very much in the interest of investors. The scheme is to come into operation by application after assent to this Bill. The matter is a relatively complex one, although perhaps not as complex when the Bill is read and the documents are considered for a while. 
I think it is comforting to note that although opposing the Bill members of the Opposition are not moving an amendment for the setting up of a committee to inquire into these matters. The moving of such amendments has become a joke. Time and time again the Opposition's lack of precise criticism has been converted to a plea for the setting up of a committee to inquire into matters, but which would only delay the passage of the Bill. It has been said that the matters contained in the Bill have been overdone. I submit that that has not been determined yet. In 1960 the Government and, I think, all people believed that too much advantage was being taken of the existing law, which meant a loss to the revenue of a substantial amount of tax. Steps were taken to make the interest non-deductible. Until very recently that situation continued. Until this legislation has been in operation for a while, it will not be possible to see how many companies avail themselves of the structure. In future it may be necessary to restrict it a little further. It may be possible to open it a little further. I suggest that that will need testing. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports made some criticisms of the Bill.  His  first point that there was not time for representations to be made is perhaps a little thin because, as we see from the Notice Paper, under item 7, this Bill has been in the House since 27th August. It is now 13th October. Prior to 27th August a statement was made: it was well known roughly what the criteria being presented tonight would be. The honourable member mentioned that in former times what went on was regarded as a bit of a racket. I have alluded to the revenue loss. He said that it was difficult to know what was right or wrong. I suggest that the principle in this Bill is that the Government is prepared to allow deductibility within certain criteria, provided that the economy and public interest receive some advantage. I have advanced reasons for this. Allowing companies, within certain conditions, to receive cheaper money and providing a small advantage for Australian participation where there otherwise might have been foreign participation are most substantial advantages which have been given and which compensate and justify the proposition as it is in the Bill. I do not think one can reasonably say, as the honourable member did. that overall the Bill can be regarded as bad rather than as good. That was bis phrase. I noted it. I have tried to point out that it will mean, particularly in the area of Australian participation, a small advantage to us. It is not a question of its giving foreign investors any advantage. Surely they will be in a rather similar position. 
Debate interrupted. 
Concluding my remarks on the amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act in relation to convertible notes 1 wish to take up the points put forward by the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  Yesterday I had reached the stage of stating that I believe the opposition to the Bill is based on false premises. The basis of the opposition stated by the honourable member can be, in his own words, stated thus, that he believes that the provisions of the Bill will be bad rather than good. I would respectfully suggest that that is an unsupported assertion. It was not backed up by any detail or evidence in his speech. At one stage he sounded satisfied when he said that he was glad that certain officers of the Public Service had obtained tough criteria or tough provisions for this Bill. 
I draw the honourable member's attention again to the objectives as set out in the second reading speech in which it was clearly pointed out that the Bill will allow some genuine cases of loans to be raised which will enable cheaper money to be obtained and will make the issues sufficiently attractive to enable more Australian participation than otherwise would have been the case in those undertakings where a period of 7 to 10 years of development is required. At the same time it will give a real choice to note holders with options to equity in those undertakings in due course. On the basis of what we have heard so far, the opposition to the Bill is for opposition's sake. I see that there are more Labor members who are to speak and I will be interested to hear whether they can be more specific. 
1 was interested to listen to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who led for the Australian Labor Party in this debate, comment on this most important Bill as part of the Budget proposals. In the course of his remarks he touched on a great number of matters affecting income tax law. They were, in the context of the rating Bills now before the House, of relevance although in many respects they were not connected. The Government received many demands from many organisations for a reduction in income tax rates. Among the most firm in their demands for such reductions were the trade unions. So we must remember that the Budget was framed in conditions of wide-scale public demand for a reduction in income tax rates applying to the various levels of incomes. 
One of the main features of this Bill is that it reduces by 10 per cent the rate of income tax on taxable income from the minimum level up to the level of $10,000. The rate then tapers down to 4.4 per cent at the level of $20,000 taxable income, and from that point the tapering continues until the taxation relief is nil at the point of $32,000. That level of $32,000 taxable income is of significance because it is at that point, and has been for many years, that the progressive scale ends its acceleration and becomes a flat rate of two-thirds tax plus  2b  per cent. That is basic and perhaps the major point of this Bill, although there are 3 classes of items mentioned in it. 
It has been said that income tax is a major form of raising revenue for the carrying on of the conduct of affairs in this country. It is fundamental that when those rates are set one can anticipate fairly closely the revenue that will be received and, in the total Budget concept, fairly accurately estimate what the expenditure will be. I suppose that every day we sit in this House we hear demands by the Opposition that more money ought to be spent. They are not inconsiderable demands. We have demands for very large sums. Yesterday one honourable member opposite stood up and asked that a mere $100m be appropriated for a purpose. That is not uncommon. We hear that a great deal here. Whilst it is the right of the Opposition and the right of any citizen to make such a request, the Government has the responsibility of deciding where the priorities will go and how much will be spent on the major heads of education, social services, defence and health. It has to decide how the economic cake will be cut up. 
So it is not unreasonable in a debate of this kind, when suggestions are made for reducing the rate of tax or increasing expenditure - never do we hear a suggestion for reducing it - to ask: Where is the money to come from? It is not only a question of receiving money; it is also a question of providing balance to. the economy. I want to make a few remarks about the economy because it is very easy to criticise how little is spent on a certain item and take it out of the context of the total flow in the economy and the total levels of supply and demand. Very briefly, in economic terms, the Govern ment has the responsibility to make sure that the supply of goods and services in the community - the amount of physical labour that is available in the community - are balanced by a reasonable demand, because if demand outstrips supply we get shortages of goods and inflation. Inflation beyond acceptable levels of perhaps 3 per cent, 4 per cent or 5 per cent per annum creates further difficulties. They are not theoretical difficulties but difficulties which touch the lives of every individual in this country. 
In taxing the private sector the Government, through its powers, subtracts a capacity for private spending so that the Government can spend the revenue so raised in the various avenues set out in the Budget, the major heads of which 1 have just referred to, to try to keep in balance supply and demand, a steady and high rate of employment and a fairly constant level of prices. In current economic conditions, were it to be otherwise, it would result in rising costs and shortages. T referred to acceptable levels of inflation because there is an incipient inflation which exists in any developed economy as a result of tremendous demand, and rightly so. Beyond acceptable levels it can create much hardship for various classes of income earners and, importantly, also upset the balance of payments. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned, as 1 said, a wide variety of matters. To the motion that the Bill be read a second time, he has moved the following amendment:  the Bill bc withdrawn and redrafted- 
He speaks here of the fundamental Bill of the whole Budget proposals - 
. because whilst it reduces rates of taxation it does so in a regressive manner. 
I believe that my colleague who will speak after me may refer to those words in more detail, but 1 want to put to the House one or two fundamental facts about income tax as it is levied on individuals, because we have a progressive rate of income tax. I am sure that the concept of a progressive rate is accepted by every member of the House. We have a method of levying taxation by which those with the higher incomes are taxed at a higher rale than those on the lower incomes. Surely, if we are to reduce income tax, we cannot alter that principle without giving greater benefit to those on higher incomes than to those on lesser incomes. Were it otherwise we would not have a progressive rate of income tax but a regressive rate, and that would be an impossible situation. 
The rate scale which has been in existence since 1954 has to be changed from time to time because the average income increases not only with inflation but with increased wealth and productivity. One has to have this basic rate and it has to be changed from time to time. So it has come about that this year it has been re-drawn making the allowances to which I have referred. 1 would like to emphasise, incidentally, because i believe there is a misconception around the country about it to some extent, that although the rates of taxation on some incomes are higher than they have been previously no-one at any level pays more taxation than he did before. That ought to be clearly understood, although I know that there are some areas where it is not understood. 
But what has emerged out of this Budget, and it perhaps is the most important point for the people of Australia to understand, is that there has been an adjustment in the Budget which provides for less personal income tax to be paid by individuals and there has been an increase in certain indirect taxes. To me, speaking perhaps from the point of view of someone who believes deeply in the value of individual initiative and private enterprise, that is a great benefit to receive. It means that a man has more of his earnings at his disposal to spend as he wishes and if he does not care to buy those items on which the excise or sales tax has been increased that is for him to decide. I am ali in favour of the individual having that right to decide and having more net disposable income to spend as he likes. In other words, I am supporting the principle which I believe is implicit in the Budget and I think that there ought to be more emphasis in our economy on indirect taxes rather than direct taxes. Here, of course, we are in an area of judgment because I do not think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports would, from what he was saying, agree with that contention. But I would say that a comparison of the 3 levels of taxation to which he referred - Commonwealth, State and local government - with other Western countries would show that Australians are paying more in direct taxation. I think the tendency today is that there should be a transfer to more indirect taxation so that the individual can make up his mind as to how he will spend his earnings, his take-home pay. 
The honourable member 'for Melbourne Ports discussed at some length the concept of equity in taxation. This is a very difficult and important field. He made a number of suggestions and I would like to point out that because of the complex nature of income tax law and all tax law it is easy to take an example from here and an example from there, put them together and show an inequality or an inequitable position. I do not by any means disagree with some of the suggestions that he made. I think he made a number of valid points. I think that certainly it is the duty of this House and the Government to give continuing consideration, as they are, to endeavouring to improve the equity of taxation, but I point out there there is no such thing as perfection in equity of taxation. One can go to a lot of trouble to try to be more equitable to certain classes of income earners and find that changes that are made upset another class. This is a matter not easy of solution. But certainly with a progressive income tax scale it is impossible to give more relief in taxation to the lower than the higher income group, although the rate of taxation may be altered. 
May 1 point out that in consideration of this subject it is important that when one looks at the statistics - 1 saw the honourable member for Melbourne Ports holding the booklet of very comprehensive statistics which is published each year - one must always remind oneself that the incomes stated in that booklet are net incomes - in other words, earnings less concessional and other deductions which are by no means insignificant. When one talks about a level of income being taxed one has to remember always that that is the net figure, and in the case of higher income groups the concessional deductions may be very significant, perhaps $2,000 or $3,000. When one talks about average earnings that point must be taken into account. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports at one point discussed the losses to revenue resulting from different classes of concessional deductions and inquired as to whether it was fair that one class should be at one level as against another. 1 think that is a valid and most proper avenue for inquiry and comparison, and the statistics to which I have referred illuminate that avenue. 1 believe that it is something that should be given even closer attention. But 1 do not think that one ought to go straight on from there and say that we should not make a reduction in this progressive scale when we had a general demand by the people of Australia, as we did in the months gone by, for a general reduction in direct income tax. 
The honourable member also made what I could perhaps describe as a traditional attack on the progressive scale and said that it had not been varied for some years. He related it to average income. That is something which might at first sight appear to be valid but 1 really do question it. In spite of the tax rate rises that we have seen consumer spending in the economy has increased at a significant rate, somewhere in the region of 7 or 8 per cent in the last year. There has been an increase in expenditure by individuals on dwellings of the order of 20 per cent. Spending on building and construction and on plant and equipment has increased substantially and these substantial increases speak highly of the expansion which has taken place in the economy of this country. There has been a very strong increase in the net disposable income after tax - what can loosely be called take-home pay. Indeed, while the current taxation scale has been in existence, 1 think, since 1953-54 there has been an increase in the disposable income of the average wage earner with 3 children of well over 30 per cent. There is no need to be gloomy on the subject. Indeed, the overall position is a favourable one. 
In addition, of course, the Government's spending, which is only possible because of taxation, has resulted in a number of benefits to individuals in the community. I think those comments put the  matter  into context in economic terms. The individual is far better off today than he was in 1954 in spite of the fact that the progressive scale of taxation has stayed the same. Because of the complexity of the taxation law I say that advocating a change may lead to what appears to be a more equit able position for one class but often puts another class in a more inequitable position. This Bill changes an individual's tax rates in the fasihon that I have mentioned. lt increases company tax by 2] per cent on all levels, lt increases substantially the age allowance made to women over 60 years of agc and men over 65 years of age to a point where a person entitled to an age allowance can earn a net income - that is, income less deductions - of $1,326 a year before any taxation is payable. A shaded amount of taxation is payable on amounts higher than $1,326. It is a very substantial reduction. I think that the community ought to understand that because one tends, in the total Budget context, to pick out a criticism here and there and not see the thing as a whole. But the Government has the responsibility for the economy of this country. The people and the Opposition would be the first to criticise it if it did something which was irresponsible and allowed conditions to arise which affected the people in an unacceptable way. 
In the short time that is left to me I want to make one or two points which I hope the Government or the Treasurer may take into consideration. The Budget speech referred to the continuing consideration of the taxation law and rates. 1 do not refer to these necessarily as firm proposals but as questions to consider. I take it as axiomatic that the tax scale must be varied from time to time. It would seem to me that the publishing of a scale which shows a separate levy of 21 per cent is now without use and outmoded. It would also seem to me that the minimum net income taxed could well be raised from its present level of $417 to a figure of Si. 000. Such an increase would be consistent with the steady increase of the age allowance. Of course, there would be a need to have some shading in rates. I question whether there is any need to continue with the top limit at $32,000. It would seem to me that a level of $25,000 would be more apt. We should always remember thai the people in the higher income group whom I would define as those receiving in excess of $10,000 a year often use companies in order to minimise their tax burdens. 
-I wish to refer to  2  aspects of the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to current affairs programmes, principally on television but also on radio where relevant. Firstly, I submit a plea to the ABC and its management to allocate adequate funds to train and increase television teams reporting current political, economic and social events in other countries, principally countries in South East Asia - I mean all of them - and the United States of America, the United Kingdom and, if possible, other countries of importance to us such as the Communist countries. I am pleased to be advised that the ABC has 11 journalists stationed in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Djakarta, Tokyo, Saigon and New Delhi. In the last financial year one cameraman has been added to that complement and in the past year he has submitted more than 150 film reports. 
I believe that Australia needs reporting of events and opinions by Australians for Australians. We need a great increase in this. We need an Australian point of view of the events which happen in those countries which are of great national interest to us. The. films that we use from the American networks, the Columbia Broadcasting System and others, are not entirely adequate for our purposes although they are of high quality, ft is essential that Australian national television carry films produced by ABC teams who are permanent residents or on a long term residency basis in each of the countries concerned. I think that in time we ought to be able to have fair reporting, which T will refer to later, to enable Australians to see and hear events and to observe the reasons and ideas behind the events so that we as a people can understand the culture, politics and economics in these important regions whose policies and relations closely affect Australia. 
I am aware that this would involve a very considerable expense, but I believe that that expense would be justified. Its value would be enormous in displaying the truth and the facts to us. Such information on which we as a people can make judgments, and the resulting informed debate, would be a great step forward.  1  believe that, as the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  has said this evening, this Parliament has a direct interest in the activities of the ABC and in its impartiality. That needs to be said because of the debate which has been current in this country for some while. There are 3 reasons for this. 
The first reason is that the Commonwealth makes substantial revenue contributions to the ABC. Secondly, the public interest is deeply involved in what is represented to us by the ABC as factual and educational material because it is a dramatic part of forming Austraiian public opinion. In the great majority of cases, open and fair reporting leads to a more informed public opinion from which our representative democratic government system can function better, lt is an important element of democracy that a continuing striving for improvement in communication exists. 
The third reason is that, unlike other media which do not depend on the Government for a franchise to communicate with the public, there is a limited number of television channels available. One channel in each of the areas where television operates in Australia is an Australian Broadcasting Commission channel. The ABC has the right of the use of a scarce public asset. I believe that the last 2 reasons apply equally to commercial television for there too is a substantial public interest involved and Parliament must, with others, ever concern itself with the public interest. lt must be granted that there are great technical difficulties in reporting politics - the actions of men and the issues and ideas - to the Australian community. There are international issues, social and economic issues of complexity all interwoven. Yet we know that it must be done - and with detachment, objectivity and fairness which alone brings out the truth, and alone gives the reputation of integrity essential to that trust on which  people  anxiously rely from national television. It is a deep need of our community. 
Striving for objectivity is a fundamental part of the production art in a television current affairs programme. It is not easy to keep interest in, for example, a discussion of complex ideas. The medium relies on pictures more than sound. Its dramatic impact is felt most readily by pictures of. action which affect emotions far more than intellect. The temptation to show violent incidents to obtain powerful communication is strong. One violent incident out of a large event can give a quite false impression; and the accompanying words have little or no effect. Colour television will accentuate this. Without balance, for example, wars and riot can be seen exclusively in terms of the casualties and combat rather than the issues which bring them about. We can be reminded in a vivid way of unfavourable aspects of our society where the cameras are free to roam and yet they cannot intrude into, for instance, closed Communist societies and that fact leads to an overall distorted representation of the world. 
It is the responsibility of the production to examine also why these events took place, who is responsible, what the alternative is, the scope and relevance of the action filmed and to be fair to all the parties in giving an overall impression. The public is entitled to have balanced impartial reporting - whether it is newscasting, verbal on-camera reporting, descriptive comments on events as they are shown, studio programmes on topical issues, interviewing, or, importantly, writing commentary for film reporting or documentaries. 
In this television journalistic inquiry we all have a direct interest. But what high standards this demands of those involved, in reporting and analysing facts and in presenting and examining the opinions of others. As I said, there are great difficulties including the physical transport of cameras and teams to the right spot, being in the right place at the right time, getting the right people to interview, representing all the views - and often there are more than 2 views - for the exchange of ideas because the implications of an international agreement are so difficult to treat adequately and yet may be of far greater importance than a riot which can be portrayed vividly. Sometimes only one  side of the question can be shown readily. But it is challenging to make important matters visually interesting to achieve balance as part of the art of television production. 
The most vivid pictures can distort the reality they appear to show unless they are combined with inquiry or explanation. Pictures, too, can be taken fairly and the words falsify the position. Words, though secondary, are important and need to be improved. So much effort and research is needed to achieve impartiality; it is much harder than adopting a prejudice. The right to inquire arises only from the duty of impartiality. The way television is used depends on the integrity and the motives of those involved. 
So, I plea for a growth of more facilities, research and increasing process of awareness by the ABC of its responsibilities in these fields to reach heights demanded, indeed craved for, but only yet commenced. There is strength in reasoned argument, not mere exhortation, and so all the known facts and practical influences in a situation are exposed impartially for the judgment of a free people with common sense. To have national television dedicated to such an objective gives not only education; it is a step in the civilising process. 
Though members on the Government side might disagree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I think it is fair to say that it is always of interest to listen to his speeches because they are reasoned. One can always take an interest in points he makes with a view to rebutting them. He endeavoured in the course of his remarks to base his reasoning on the facts of the situation. In all fairness, I must say that he did not express his opposition to the legislation wilh very much vehemence. One could not help wondering whether maybe this was a perfunctory opposition but I will come to that later. I thought the honourable member was kind to refer to me as the first batsman on behalf of the Government. I noticed a newspaper article the other day which made such an interpretation of some remarks I made on legislation dealing with convertible notes. That, of course, was rather a misguided view. The newspaper quoted certain remarks which 1 had made and attempted to say that I had spoken on behalf of the Government and that the interpretation 1 placed on the Bill must be the Government's policy. Of course that was over-generous, as honourable members will understand. The truth is that every good team such as the Liberal Party team in this House allows its members from time to time the privilege of opening the batting and facing the fast bowling. I think it is fair to say that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  after all introduced these Bills and so it could hardly be said that he did not open for the Government. The Treasurer is sitting at the table and may make some remarks later. 
I want to go over the subject of receipts duties briefly because a lengthy debate took place on this matter in the House previously. But it is necessary each time we debate receipts duties to keep our remarks in context. Receipt duty legislation, as is known, began in Western Australia after a rather detailed search by the Treasury officials of that State for a tax which the State could impose in order to receive more income. That was a difficult task. It is not easy under the constitutional law which exists in the States and in the Commonwealth to find anything novel, but something was found and I think some tribute should be paid at this time to  Mr Townsend,  who is the Under-Secretary of the Treasury in Western Australia. As 1 said, the States attempted to find a growth tax. It was found. I think this was regarded by those in Government circles as something of an achievement and a find. It was always expected that there would be problems as one went along. We have a situation in which many honourable members on this side of the House, at any rate, and in the country would believe that it is a good principle to try to find taxes which can be raised by the States on the principle that those States which are to spend large amounts of money should have the responsibility and the right to raise it. So this avenue was sought. 
The States, of course, found difficulties because one after the other they implemented similar legislation but the court determined that certain parts of the legislation were illegal or invalid. I will return to this point later. One knows the history of the part the Commonwealth has played because it has been recited here. The Commonwealth saw a need to give assistance to the States and it used its constitutional power to bring forward Bills which would make valid those sections which had been found invalid. I would assert that all State governments of any political colour have certain rights to endeavour to raise revenue by implementing perhaps new avenues for doing so, and to endeavour to budget for it despite all the doubt that surrounds implementation and innovation in a new field. 1 venture to say that all new fields will be found to be legally difficult. However, it is for the States to decide what they will do. In fact, they did decide to cover various avenues such as a receipt duty tax on wages. It was for them to decide exactly what the scope of the tax would be. So all the arguments which have been ventured from time to time about the tax being iniquitous - I think that is the jargon, and of course every tax is regarded as iniquitous because no-one likes paying taxes - could be applied equally to the stamp duty which has existed for many years on cheques. If there is a cascading effect or any regressive element, then all of these disadvantages apply equally to cheques and I do not hear anyone complaining about them. 
If one maintains the argument that it is a regressive tax - 1 will come to the incidence of it in a minute because 1 think that is relevant here - and if one looks at the tax in terms of the whole of the Australian economy and criticises it in this way, then 1 believe one is assuming that the Commonwealth alone should have the power lo raise taxes. I do not apply this argument only to significant taxes; I apply it to all taxes because the tax we are discussing at present is relatively small. That is a view which is nothing short of a plea for giving to the Federal Parliament practically the whole of the power to raise taxes in this country and I submit that, at this stage of our history al any rate, that is a very wrong course for us to take. 
Apart from the principles involved there is the very important fact that the receipts duty tax is one that is very small and has a very small incidence. In fact, it is lc in SIO or .1 per cent. Although much has been made of the cascading effect of this tax, I would be prepared to challenge any calculation that I have seen, particularly those that were run in June in newspapers in Queensland, as being exaggerated. In fact, I have pointed out that this is a minute tax. A great deal of unfair publicity has been given to it. The 'Courier Mail' in one infamous article on its front page said that the tax would put the grocery bill of the. average wage earner up by $1 a week This is absurd. The question here is one of degree and not one of principle. This is so when one is talking in national terms as did the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 12th June when he made a big argument about how unfair this tax was and so on. Tt is right that one should appreciate that one is talking about something which has a very small impact. If one says that this is the kind of tax which will lead to inflation one first has to demonstrate that this tax in itself - not as an excuse - will cause a rise in prices. I do not think that has been shown. Certainly I have seen nothing to this effect in what I have read. The truth is that rising costs in practically every case are the result of rising wages. I would assert that where increased productivity can fairly give rise to rising wages, that is fair. But what happens in many cases is that wages rise irrespective of increased efficiency and productivity. In any case, the point I am making is that by far the greatest element in rising prices is related lo wages and not at all to other matters, including this minute tax. I want to refer to one or two matters that 1 promised the honourable member for Melbourne Ports I would deal with. The honourable member started out on the point that certain people had relied on the decisions of the court and had withheld the payment. I think it has to be pointed out that although the court did decide one very precise thing, the major thing it did was to throw a great deal of doubt over other areas of existing State law. The position was, and is, that in State law there exists an area where one knows the receipt duty is valid, an area at the other end where one knows it is invalid and a great unknown grey area in the middle. The Bills before us lie over all the invalid and doubtful areas in order 'to make them all valid. 
That is a point I want to come to in a moment, but at present I merely say that in fact it was widely understood around the Commonwealth that the Commonwealth would attempt to make valid those sections which either were invalid or could be invalid. Alter all, there is a very good practical reason for all this; the States have collected these sums of money. They have budgeted for them, as they had to do, because their Budgets must go up to the end of each financial year. They have spent that money. No-one here would deny their need to spend their income. It was not easy for them to determine how much they would receive. It has not been easy in any of the years, even though in Western Australia it has been going on for some years. The States had a need. They budgeted as best they could, and they spent the money. 
After all, budgeting is an accounting based on the decisions which a government makes concerning the priorities of expenditure and a government's judgments of how it should receive income and its overall decisions on competing priorities, giving as much equity as it believes is possible to individuals and to classes of individuals, and making reasonable judgments about how much will be raised and how much can be spent. Each year is entirely separate and once it has gone one must go on to the next. That is the problem of having to make decisions from day to day rather than sitting down and assessing the position in retrospect and having advantage of knowing what we now know to be the legal position. So I do not believe, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, that there is any question in these Bills of anyone being vindictive. There is a question here of endeavouring to validate a position which has arisen through a decision of the courts. I think it would be agreed by everyone here that if any State did attempt to repay any of the receipts duty or to determine, of the receipts duty it bad received how much had been validly raised and how much had been invalidly raised, it would be presented with enormous difficulties. That really is not a practical proposition. 
The Bills have now been presented in such a way that the validations which are sought will go to 1st October, and that will be the end of the matter. The Premiers have for their part stated that they will repeal the existing receipts duty legislation in their States, and it could hardly be otherwise or they would be setting a tax on a very small area of their public if they were to rely on those sections which are regarded as still being valid, and I have already said that there is a very large field which could be regarded as invalid. 
I think the point should be made too - this affects the points raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports with respect to the Budget - that it was quite clear that the receipts duty that will be received under these Bills, as was to be the case with the receipts duty that would have been received under the Bills previously presented, will be received in the various States by offices manned by public servants of State and Federal governments. 
This is quite so, and this is the point I wanted to make. By this process certain bookkeeping adjustments would be required. But in any case it would be the same return. It would be the one cheque, and the one receipt, banked into the same account, and the amount would never leave that State, because under section 96- 
There will be the Commonwealth account, but in fact the practical application will bc that this money will go straight to the States, and this is important for more than one reason. The State in which the receipts duty is received will be the State that spends it. Reference was made in the debate on 12th June to the fears of some of the Premiers that the Commonwealth would be receiving this money and would be having a hand in its allocation. Those fears were unfounded, because the amount raised within a State stays within that State; because of the overlaying of the State and Federal legislation as I have said, the whole area of receipts duty will be validated. Whatever journal entries or bookkeeping adjustments will have to be made for the purpose of the Commonwealth responsibilities of keeping proper Treasury records will involve relatively academic figures. I think this is important. 
Some of the Premiers' fears that the Commonwealth would take this money, put it into the Consolidated Revenue Fund, hold it and decide how it would be spread amongst the States, were, I would say, fortunately unfounded. As to the quantum of this revenue, I understand it is an amount that can be calculated only by the States themselves, lt is a tax imposed by them, the Commonwealth merely lending its power to the States. The Commonwealth Treasury officials are now discussing this matter with each Stale Treasury. There will be a clear estimate of the amounts involved, which can be estimated then but not before. 
I want to conclude on the note that these Bills are to validate to 1st October what has become a very confused position but surely it is a position which the States would find almost impossible to undo. There is a need for this matter to be cleared up, and I submit that the opposition by the Labor Party to these measures is opposition for its own sake. It achieves nothing. It makes the position untenable. I support the legislation because I am certain this is the right way to overcome the problem in relation to the collection of receipts duty. 
I address a question to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, ls the Minister aware of a news item which recently appeared in Western Australia stating, firstly, that the Commonwealth Government was negotiating to buy a group of town houses for Aboriginals at Guildford near Perth, and secondly, that the Minister visited the site when in Perth 2 weeks ago and was intent on keeping the matter quiet? Will he advise the House of the position? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What was the original cost price of the full containership 'Australian Endeavour' and was this price at the pre-devaluation of sterling rate. 
What was the cost of the containers for this ship and how many have been purchased. 
What profit or loss has been made to date in the operation of this vessel. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  expounded to the House, with some personal variations his favourite area of orthodox Socialist theories which we have heard on a number of occasions. The honourable member suggested that Australia ought to try to set up a bills of exchange market comparable with that in London to control the credit issues of this country. He displayed little understanding of the conduct of monetary procedures in the London market, of the huge resources there which have been built up by vast dealings, being as it is at the crossroads of international trade in Europe, and having a very long and traditional evolution; a system that has operated for over  1,000  years in an area which is the hub and base of the sterling bloc. The honourable member's comments are just glib commentary on the monetary and fiscal control in Australia. Surely he is aware of the difficulty of obtaining in Canberra, even if it were the desire of the Government, necessary constitutional powers which would never be given by the people of Australia. This has been demonstrated time and time again. Even if it were to happen, honourable members on this side of the House know that it would stackle development finance in this country, and lock out and drive away prospects. It is a proposal for part of the dead hand of Socialism. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to deal with part of an estimated  800  million cheques used in Australia per annum. It is estimated that  200  million of those cheques are order cheques and  2  million are dishonoured annually because of lack of endorsement or irregular endorsement. It is further estimated that  1,500,000  are cheques which are endorsed cheques deposited to the credit of the payee. This Bill provides that endorsement of those cheques need not in the future be made. Reference has been made to the report of the committee appointed by the Government to review the Bills of Exchange Act. The report dated 1st May 1964 at page 17, in relation to the subject of this Bill states: 
There is  no  doubt that a  great  deal of un productive work is involved for  the  recipients of cheques and for banks as a result  of the  need for  indorsemen  of cheques without very much, if any, useful purpose being served. 
That report also states:   the Committee is of the opinion that an amendment to the Act reducing the need for indorsements would affect a worthwhile saving of time, effort and cost. 
For those reasons I support with enthusiasm the provisions of this Bill and I am sorry that it was not introduced earlier. There is a rather striking quotation in that report at page 5 which repeats some of the provisions of an English report on the subject and 1 think this graphically displays the position. The quotation is a passage from a letter which was sent in by a witness. lt reads: 
As Secretary of this Company, I spend 15 to 30 minutes daily endorsing cheques. This irksome duty was formerly done by the Managing Director who delegated it to an ordinary Director who in turn delegated it to me. I often delegate it to my assistant and I am contemplating delegating it to the office boy which proves the unimportance of this work. 
As has been pointed out by the honourable member for Cunningham and by the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  a great deal of time is spent within banks in returning cheques which are either not endorsed or are insufficiently or inaccurately endorsed. 1 believe that it should be an interest of this Parliament to consider in the provisions of Bills the achievement of simplicity and standardisation. In this context and in the context of this Bill it is not too much to say that this country needs now, and will need increasingly in the future, to find ways and means to cut unnecessary accounting and book-keeping procedures where there is an unjustifiable cost - or where the cost is greater than the benefit - because that is a charge on the Australian economy and we ought to seek ways in the public and the private sectors of minimising such costs. 1 have had some number of years' experience as a practising chartered accountant and I believe that there is too much detailed book-keeping in this country, some of it required by the provisions of Acts of Parliament, much, of it traditional. Too many people are engaged in tertiary employment. We should seek ways and means of providing simplified procedures - encouraging a reduction - which we should seek progressively. That is a wide subject on which 1 will, develop on a more appropriate occasion. I believe it is a matter of some regret that the Manning Committee's proposed Cheques Act has not yet been enacted. The report was dated 1st May 1964. It was tabled in this House on 12th October 1965. This first step which we have before us tonight takes place in 1971. The Cheques Act with the other provisions are still awaited. 
The draft Bill which is the main appendix to the Manning Committee's report contains many recommendations. I cannot make specific reference to all of them but I would like to refer to paragraph 72 which refers to the crossing of cheques and states: 
The making of cheques payable to 'order' when crossed with the words ' 'account payee only' seems to the Committee to constitute an ambiguous and contradictory instruction to both the collecting and the paying bank, in that, on the one hand, banks are told that the cheque is to be lodged only to the credit of the payee's account and, on the other hand, that the cheque may be paid to the order of the payee, that is, to another person. 
Many large companies operating in this country issue cheques in exactly that way: The report contains many recommendations apart from those which are the subject of this Bill. Entirely different subjects are covered in paragraphs 44, 60, 67, 87, 89-9.1, 164-5, 170, 193, 194-5, 201-2, 203-4, 229 and 231. One may well ask what is the reason for the delay. I can find only one reference to it. In the main it is in answer to a question which I asked over a year ago. I was advised that there was a number of developments in banking techniques, in particular dealing with advancement in the use of computers. But that has been going on for many years and it will continue to go on for many years. I do not know where the delay exists, whether it is in the consultation with the trading banks or whether it is within the departments concerned. 
I do not criticise the present Minister. Indeed, I expressly exclude him from these remarks and compliment him on introducing this measure which rightly makes the major reform and a significant saving in time wasting procedures in commercial activity. 1 urge the Attorney-General to press forward, in the haste called for after a delay of 6 or 7 years' consideration, with the early introduction of an Australian Cheques Act which can, of course, be amended from time to time to take account of changing banking techniques which develop. 
I listened with some care to the speech made and the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  this afternoon. I believe his speech to the national Parliament should have been seriously presented, seriously intended, seriously prepared and carefully researched to meet the Government policy squarely with clear counter proposals demonstrating solutions, analysing the economy and giving a clear statement of high policy. Nothing of the kind happened. The Leader of the Opposition has moved a censure of the Government and asked all honourable members to support the motion but he has no proposals and no solutions to offer. Worse still he did not even offer a few sentences to show a nodding acquaintanceship with economic conditions.  His  speech was a hotchpotch and I think it was clear that he had the greatest trouble in delineating what the problems are in our economy. Of course his lack of solutions is typical. It is true that we have been spared yet another proposal to set up a committee to examine the problems of our economy. That is a proposition with which we are becoming very familiar. It is proposed when the Australian Labor Party wants to oppose Government policy but has no policy of its own. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that the Prime Minister's statements were the sole matters before us so let us have a look at them. The Prime Minister has made 2 statements on this subject. One was a broadcast to the nation on 29th January and the other was a statement in this House on Tuesday 16th February. In the first statement he mentioned developments which had taken place and said that the problems facing the economy today were two-fold, firstly a  1.9  per cent increase in the consumer price index for the 3 months ending December last year and on top of that the effect of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's award of a  6  per cent increase in wages. The Prime Minister gave an appreciation of Cabinet's view and stated that the consumer price index increase was regarded as too rapid but not alarming. He said that it included once and for all cost increases due to indirect taxes. The Prime Minister drew attention to the 6 per cent wage increase which would amount to a demand of $900m in a full year. This is a far greater amount than the present increase in production of the goods manufactured in this country available for sale. Such situation is clearly a great boost to inflation. I think that all speakers today have agreed that inflation hurts everybody. The Prime Minister pointed out that consumer spending is not growing very strongly at present, and therefore announced that the Government did not propose to increases taxes. As honourable members would be aware, that measure has been adopted by a number of European and other nations in recent times, without much good effect. If anyone is interested, it is set out in considerable detail in a comprehensive report on inflation published by the Organisation for Economic Co-ordination and Development in December 1970. 
The Prime Minister said that the Government was looking at 3 particular areas which it considered warranted attention - the public sector of expenditure, private investment on plant and equipment, and non-dwelling construction. He submitted the action which the Government proposed to take in the last 2 areas.  His  statement to the House on Tuesday was a logical extension, in that he outlined the cuts in the public sector, amounting to about $75m for the next 4 months. Although it has been said that the total Budget is an amount of $7, 800m. as has been pointed out earlier today, when one takes from that the amount paid to the States, the amount devoted to social services and other fixed amounts, the Government really has at its disposal in sums that it can directly influence only about $2,600m. So its reductions have amounted not to 1 per cent, as has been widely publicised, but to 3 per cent. Let us look now at the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition. He says: 
There has been a failure to report details and purposes of the Government's monetary, fiscal, constitutional and industrial policies. 
That is rather a a mouthful, lt seems strange to me that he comments with great certainty in his speech on what he believes the Commonwealth Government's policies are. They are inadequately described, and embroidered with the usual personal abuse, but the Leader of the Opposition firmly claims to know what they are. Yet in the words of his motion he says there has been a failure to report. As I have indicated elsewhere, and for those who heard it, it was a rambling address, lt was certainly not an economic treatise, but a glib, superficial reference to certain monetary and fiscal measures and financial and commercial structures; with a nod as he passed by to classical socialist theory which, I believe, has been proved wrong around the world for about 30 years. 
These economic and other considerations are complicated and widely spread. They are all-embracing matters which he touched on. There are about 54 sections in the Department of the Treasury alone dealing with various aspects. All of us are aware of the many institutions - perhaps the most powerful being the Reserve Bank - in our economy which are involved, in all aspects. Let me take up some of the main points mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. Firstly he called on that tired, old cliche, 'stop-go economic policies'. He says that since 1949 this is the fourth Liberal inflation period. He later says, with the abuse for which he is noted, that this present situation is caused by the actions of the Prime Minister himself. That would appear to be a contradiction. He says that Stop-go is characteristic and consequent of that (Liberal) rule.' Does anybody think that a complex, industrialised nation, a great trading nation overseas - the tenth trading nation in the world - can run its affairs without changes arising from the progressive and rapidly changing events and influences? Is there any economic understanding in the comment that the Leader of the Opposition made? No individual in this country spends each day in exactly the same way. How much less does a thriving nation? As the former Prime Minister of Great Britain once said of a criticism of stop-go economic policies: How else can you drive a car in busy traffic?' Of course there are restraints and on the other hand encouragements are needed from time to time. The restraints must be implemented as smoothly as possible. 
The second point I noted was that the Leader of the Opposition showed himself to be the true disciple of the trade union movement. He attacks the Prime Minister for pointing out the inflationary effects of the decision of the Arbitration Commission, coming as it did at this particular time. I suppose there is no doubt that he will go on and on repeating this, because he fears the censure of the trade union movement far more than the censure and the criticism of this House. Let everybody be aware that his political support in the main rests squarely on the trade union movement. He knows it; and so does  Mr Hawke.  The Leader of the Opposition quoted Professor Hancock as saying that  88  per cent of price rises since  1949  are caused by demand. Well, here is the Prime Minister's complete answer to that. The Leader of the Opposition in the censure motion asks for a report from the Government of its views. One need turn only to the first statement to which I have referred to see that the Prime Minister gave a completely precise answer to it. He said:  i come to what constitutes the major threat of inflation. No matter what action a government takes - no matter how severely it taxes or how ruthlessly it cuts government spending - no matter how it seeks to redirect resources if that is what it wishes to do - it will not be able to beat inflation if wages and salaries rise more quickly than production. Demands for over award payments, for extra holidays, for additional holiday pay, for shorter hours can only be met in one or two ways. Either the amount of goods and services produced is increased sufficiently to enable these requests to be met without inflation - or the requests are met at the cost of inflation which ultimately destroys the benefits sought and leaves us all worse off. 
If the Leader of the Opposition cannot understand that and cannot see the point, all I can say is that there is none so blind as those that will not see. Everybody knows that production is the real wealth of any country. 
The measures taken to meet inflation and the threat of inflation - that has been emphasised by the Prime Minister to be mainly a threat - must be right and they must be effective for the circumstances and not the result of panic or being too harsh. The economy is complex. As honourable members know, there are many economic theories. The operation and administration of an economy is detailed and complex. The Commonwealth has not sufficient power to cover all its aspects. There is, I believe, a very proper role for the States within the national economy in the maintenance of our federal system. That is a basic belief of our Party. Hie people of Australia will never give powers to the Commonwealth to govern all these demands, as my right honourable friend said a little while ago. Many proposals for changes in the Constitution have been put forward but few have been agreed to. Labor Party demands amount to complete control of everything. Indeed, that would be necessary to implement many of its suggested measures. It is not possible to control prices without controlling every aspect of the economy. 
I am glad to hear the honourable gentleman's agreement, because it is the basic No.  1  objective laid out in the Labor Party's platform. It states in its first sentence that its objective is 'the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange.' That is a very broad scope. The actions of Labor governments show the Labor Party means it. no matter how much honourable members opposite try to hedge it. It is not spelled out, with respect to my honourable friend opposite, very clearly by leaders often, but be in no doubt that the Labor Party is a party of doctrinaire socialists. No-one should ever forget it. It has tried all these experiments before and failed. Instead of building people up and providing more opportunities and more national wealth in which to share, they would bring all down to the lowest common denominator. That policy leads to a tremendous acceleration in restrictions on growth and independent freedoms. An appreciation of this makes the point of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition fall into place. When he speaks of price control and getting the constitutional power for it we know what he means. Labor has always wanted price control and implemented it: it has been a policy and measure that has failed in peace and in war. It results in shortages. It results in controls of every aspect of business both small and big. It results in inspectors everywhere, in blackmarkets and rackets, and still the prices go up! 
The Government has promised further action on restrictive trade practices and the 
Leader of the Opposition this afternoon affects to be a supporter. But at the time that measure was introduced he regarded it as being unsatisfactory and inadequate. He wanted more controls. Elsewhere he speaks as though with a few changes all the finance would magically be available for the many competing demands of this country. But there is only so much to supply and for the highlight in superficiality he speaks quickly of answering all the demands of Slate governments, local authorities, bousing and public works. It is easy to promise and while he speaks with such indignation of the last Budget and of inflation, his own speech on that Budget and the 2 policy speeches he has made in the last 18 months are a catalogue of vast additional expenditure that he would make. It is a formidable increase which, if implemented, would result in catastrophic inflation. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. In view of the discussions on foreign aid which take place in the community from time to time, will he give an outline of the volume of foreign aid to which Australia is committed at present? 
ls the PostmasterGeneral aware that hundreds of cables emanating from the United Kingdom are being held up by employees of the Postmaster-General's Department in Perth and have been banking up since 1st February? Will the Postmaster-General give the House what information he has on the hold-up of cables and mail in Australia and endeavour to get the union or unions to see the damage they are doing to the Aus tralian economy, including the activities of woolbuyers who expect buying orders io be among the cables, and small businessmen who do not have direct Telex communication? 
 I address a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Can he give the House any information following his announcement on 8th March that the abandoned freighter 'Henna' is presumed to be afloat 2,000 miles south west of Fremantle having been loaded with ilmenite at Bunbury on 23rd February? Is its present position known and is it regarded as a hazard to shipping? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has he made any estimate of the time taken and the cost of answering each of the many questions on notice - they now number nearly 3,000 with another 20 added today - asked by the Leader of the Opposition and other members of the Opposition, and has he any evidence that a significant part of the information which has been compiled has been used for a constructive purpose? 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports of further fighting between South Vietnamese and North Vietnamese troops in Laos on the so-called Ho Chi Minh trail? Will he give to the House an appreciation of the current position? 
The marathon tirade to which we have just listened and which was read at a great rate into Hansard by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for almost an hour must surely be an aggregate of the best that the honourable member has said in his every speech. Of course, he ended up on a highly political note which had in it implications of maintaining that in this free community the Government alone should by laws provide for greater productivity. The fallacy of that argument is shown in attempts by law to increase productivity in Communist and other centrally planned economies. What the honourable member was asking for was for much greater government control. The statement which was made on 23rd February by the former Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  shows in a short, lucid way the problems of productivity to this nation and certain practical approaches. It is not a one-sided document but a fair appreciation, as any thinking person can see. The Minister points to the benefits to all in this community in building up greater wealth that can be shared by every individual in the community and which can enable the nation to take its place in the world. We must, to use his words: 'Get on with the job of increasing the whole'. 
I put it to the House that the activities of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  Mr Hawke,  particularly in recent times, do not inspire confidence that the interests of trade unions or of this country will be properly pursued. When people try to say that their purchasing power has diminished, I point out that there are ample statistics to show that steady increases in real wages are taking place. In his statement the Minister has referred to some of those. What is important about the Minister's statement is that it reveals that wages best increase through an increase in productivity. Productivity is a different concept from production. Production is the volume of goods and services obtained without counting what resources were used up; that is, what it cost. Productivity is output related to what is used up in man hours, machine time, materials and so forth. To improve productivity in the individual enterprise is to reduce the unit cost of production and hence to affect the lowest price . at which goods and services can be sold. I think a particularly valuable part of the Minister's statement on productivity is this: 
Out of all this discussion and consideration, one conclusion has become abundantly clear. That is, it is at the level of each single enterprise that a concern for productivity is most critical if the national total is to be improved. Society derives its strength from the performance of each individual industrial or commercial unit. It is at the level of the individual establishment that our productivity is determined. 
Whatever other factors may affect prices - for example, indirect taxes - the fact remains that the higher the level of productivity the lower the price possible for goods and services and the more wages and salaries will buy in real terms. The productivity concept is far reaching. Put more simply this means using humans and materials in the most economic efficient way. The level of productivity thus affects what we obtain for expenditure on education, health, social services, defence and so on. 
The former Minister for Labour and National Service stated that there were 3 basic questions concerning productivity improvement and described the contribution that the Department was making. He referred particularly to the productivity group movement and the Productivity Promotion Council. I think the most significant thing in what the Minister described was the way in which the Department of Labour and National Service is involving the business community in productivity action through the establishment of productivity groups numbering 183 and representing some 3700 firms. It is regrettable that the trade union movement has not involved itself in this and similar actions. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh is a Labor Party front bench member and Labor's spokesman on industrial relations. It was pleasing to hear in his long address on many subjects, few of which had much to do with productivity, at least some reference to productivity, because I took the trouble to search an earlier speech of his to see what references he had made to this subject. All I could find was about a 30- second reference in a speech he made in the House last September in which he said among other things: 
Many union leaders have in return offered to cooperate with management further to increase productivity provided labour shares in the benefits. 
And again he said: 
For years now the Government, employers and the public media have been calling for some productivity wage relativity. Union leaders in that time have been demanding a greater share of the increased productivity which technological advance has already made possible. 
I submit that the share in productivity has already been achieved and more, because wages are ahead of the increase in productivity which has taken place in this country so far. But the inference which can be drawn from those remarks of the honourable member for Hindmarsh and from his speech delivered here this afternoon is that the trade union movement and he as spokesman for the Labor Party will not assist in improving productivity in this country. He talks of cheating and of prices control. We have come to expect him to make harsh criticisms of the Government, which he has done, using such overblown language as the Government being 'crude' and 'cynical'. But his whole approach is negative. He exemplifies, I believe at its worst, that ultra-conservative attitude which many trade union leaders show. The attitude is to fight management, not to cooperate and not to discuss. He fans the class war. I ask: What leadership is that in industrial relations? 
Although wages and salaries are not the only factors in production costs, it is not insignificant that earnings in recent years have risen from 6 per cent to 8 per cent while the long term productivity growth, despite year to year fluctuations, is accepted as being between  2i  per cent and 3 per cent per annum. The Minister has realistically said that most of the discussion about productivity tends to be in terms of sharing benefits. To put first things first, we should be talking about how to get more to share. But we cannot ignore that the sharing is important. I will comment further on this in a moment. Firstly, however, let me make a few comments on key considerations in productivity improvement. The first comment is that people need to understand the relevance of productivity to their lives. That means a continuous effort to inform the public. Funds spent in this direction would be well spent, because people's attitudes would form on understanding and not on misconception that higher productivity means working harder. 
Secondly, continuing improvement in productivity demands greater skills at all levels of the work force, and thus further education. Innovation and technological change are key factors in productivity and the introduction of new technologies creates need for new and improved skills. These include skills to operate and maintain new equipment and techniques; skills to manage and control the introduction of the new technologies and to use them to the full; skills to develop and improve the new methods and to seek out even better ways. 
Lastly, if people are displaced by change, opportunities for retraining must be provided. The arguments concerning the need for higher productivity and the need to share the benefits of higher productivity must be separated. There is established industrial machinery for wage matters to which the honourable member for Hindmarsh frequently objects in this place without offering any practical solution. What the honourable member is doing, as all members of this House know even if those people listening outside do not, is pandering to attitudes of elements with which he is so familiar in the trade union movement and in the Labor Party. The key factor, however, is to make sure that there is something to share, and that comes only from higher productivity. 
We are looking in this matter basically at the best use of our resources - not to the quantity of goods we can make, but the efficiency with which we make them. 1 do not want to direct the emphasis in my speech at blaming any party in industrial relations although I believe that all parties in one way or another can be blamed. I call for trade unions and employers to assist in increasing productivity, in minimising the losses which are incurred through absences, through job changing and through injury, to all of which the Minister and the honourable member for Hindmarsh referred. 
Productivity improvement is one of Australia's urgent needs. The type of argument advanced by the Australian Council of Trade Union delegates to the recent hearing on the national wage case  -  I have some extracts from the transcript in front of me - does not help the educative process to which I have referred. The arguments did not impress the Commission which pointed to the fallacies of the arguments which were used, one being that wages have no effect on the inflation of this country. Everybody knows, and no-one disputes the danger that inflation represents to the economy and. therefore, to every individual in this country. The Commission pointed out that recent American experience shows that inflation continues even in the face of falling wage demands and even with the growth of unemployment. 
To ascribe the problem of inflation purely to demand is a misconception, or, at least, a great over-simplification. The Commission pointed out the fallacy in the argument and the unsupported assertions made in the studies which counsel for the 
ACTU,  Mr Willis,  put forward with great fluidity. I recommend that honourable members interested in this subject read that transcript carefully. The growth of productivity will be achieved only by a cooperative effort in this country and not by slanging matches, not by criticisms of the Government and not by complaints about questions on the notice paper and ail the paraphernalia that the honourable member for Hindmarsh put before the House. It is not within the power of this Government to legislate and to control in order to achieve greater productivity in this country. What is required is the cooperation of all parties in industry so that a greater increase in the productivity index can be achieved not by Government action alone or by legislation alone but by a general will by all the parties to achieve it. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister who will have seen reports that 3 unions - the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Sheet Metal Workers Union and the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society - jointly agreed at their annual conferences yesterday to seek a work ban on mining operations in the Gove Peninsula. In view of the Prime Minister's recent speech will he advise the House what initiatives have been taken by the Government to protect Aboriginal land rights? 
I address a question to the Minister for the Navy. Will he inform the House of the state of the construction of the causeway at Garden Island in Western Australia preparatory to establishing a naval base there and whether the construction is proceeding in accordance with planning? 
The honourable member has addressed to me a general question which was, I think, based on a case which he has communicated to me in the last few days and on which I replied to him. As the honourable member will be aware the Department of Supply carries out research into defence equipment and development. Tt does a great deal of weapons research and, in the course of that development and research, needs to conduct a great deal of communication both internally and externally. In the course of that work it is necessary for the Department to look into the background of some of its employees, particularly those concerned with communications which, as the honourable member knows, was the case in point. There is no discrimination against naturalised persons but it is necessary and proper, as I am sure all honourable members will understand, that inquiries be carried out. There was, as the honourable member knows, no demotion in this case. I examined this case and would naturally look into any case which honourable gentlemen brought to my attention. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the activities and developments of the Department of Supply for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
It is true that some 49 retrenchment notices were issued on 11th August to employees of the Fishermen's Bend Government Aircraft Factory. It is unfortunately true that fluctuations in employment are inevitable in the defence aircraft industry. The Government's policy, as has been expressly stated, is to maintain a small viable defence aircraft industry, but by nature that industry is subject to fluctuations. We are at present towards the end of the current aircraft generation in the construction of Macchis and Mirages, and the next generation is not expected for some years. Employees at Fishermen's Bend were given one month's notice and every assistance is being given to find alternative employment for them. The Public Service Board, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Department of Labour and National Service were notified, and it is hoped that many of these employees will find other employment within that period. 
In reply to another section of the honourable member's question, it is true that the Government is looking at possibilities for a rationalisation of the aircraft factories in the Fishermen's Bend area, and I hope at some time to come to be able to say something more specific about that. But in general the Government is trying to boost the long term workload and smooth out fluctuations, and in this direction there are some prospects. I think the honourable member will be aware of deep difficulties that exist in aircraft industries in other major manufacturing countries. As to his final question, I will certainly consider the possibility of having something more to say about this matter in the near future. 
Over the years the Government has laid down a policy in respect of contracting which rests mainly on the principle that wherever possible a contract should be let by public tender and, in the ordinary course, the lowest tender should be accepted. Were that policy otherwise there would be room for much political interference which, I feel, most honourable members here would regard as undesirable. However, the honourable member has raised other matters which are policy considerations. I shall endeavour to obtain for him a more conclusive reply to them and, if necessary, give a further answer to this question tomorrow. 
I am not aware in total of the countries that would have in the hands of my Department the information to which the honourable gentleman has referred. I will examine that question to see whether it would be within Government policy to make the information sought available. Of course contacts made by other countries would not come directly to me or to my Department, but would be on a government to government basis and therefore would go to other Ministers of the Government. I am unaware of any concern having been expressed. I will give close consideration to the other questions that the honourable gentleman has put to me and take an early opportunity to see whether I can let him have the information. 
It is not true that the possible amalgamation of these 2 establishments is to be pressed on with at the speed implied in the question asked by the honourable member. For some time the possibility of rationalisation of the defence aircraft industry in the Fishermens Bend area has been under study as was indicated by my predecessor in another place in a statement which he made early last year. The aim of the amalgamation is to achieve greater effectiveness, stability and economy consistent with Government policy to maintain a small but viable defence aircraft industry. The factories of the 2 organisations mentioned by the honourable member are adjacent. To a large extent the facilities are complementary. The possibilities of amalgamation have been explored with Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd management but the complexity of the study and the importance of ensuring that the best interests of the industry are maintained have meant that results will be relatively slow. They have found to be more difficult than was hoped originally. Progress was reported not very long ago but the matter will certainly take several months yet. The rights and interests, of employees are an important aspect in this consideration and they will be carefully examined. As to the matter of another offer being made to Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation as suggested by the honourable member. I do not have any information which I can give him. 
The honourable gentleman asks me a very technical question about the successful development in Australia of the Ikara missile. I have not had under notice the particular aspects of this matter that he has referred to. I will take an early opportunity to look at them and to give him a reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on the number and value of Boeing sub-contracts is not available. 
Detailed information on sub-contracts awarded to Australian companies is not available to my Department. However information that is available indicates that sub-contracts totalling some $650,000 in value have been placed by Boeing on the Australian aircraft industry for 747 aircraft work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From time to time announcements have been made about continuing talks with a view to rationalising the aircraft industry at Fishermen's Bend, where the Government Aircraft Factories'premises are adjacent to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation properties. Those discussions are being carried on with some sense of urgency, but it is expected that nothing will result for many months yet. I answered a similar question to this one not so long ago. I understand that there is a similar question on notice although I believe that the honourable gentleman's question put different emphasis on some aspects. I think it has to be under-, stood that this is a very complex matter. There are many features that need to be integrated. However only this morning, in speaking with officers of my Department, I asked for some report to be given to me on the current situation, and I will communicate that information, when it is available, to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and those other honourable members who I know are interested in this matter. 
 The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has raised, under 2 headings, matters to which I would refer. The facts, as I heard them, in respect of the employee who has applied for provident fund membership are, I think, in the main correct. It is unfortunate that these papers were, as the honourable gentleman said, mislaid. I think it should be pointed out that once it was discovered that these papers had been lost the gentleman concerned was asked to apply again but he declined to do so. Unfortunately this matter has gone on from that day until this and, under the existing legislation, it would be simply not possible to back date his application. 1 am afraid that that position will continue until he submits an application. I give an assurance that as soon as he does so the matter will be immediately expedited. 
I turn now to the matter raised in genera] concerning the defence aircraft industry. In order to put this matter in its proper context 1 shall, somewhat briefly in view of the time, repeat what I have said on occasions and what my predecessor,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, has said in relation to this matter. It is the Government's stated policy to maintain a small, viable defence aircraft industry. My predecessor did make a fairly lengthy statement in the Senate in April of last year in which he covered the main circumstances in which the industry finds itself and alluded to the negotiations which were then and are still continuing in respect of rationalising that industry, particularly with respect to Fishermen's fiend. By its very nature the aircraft industry - the defence aspect of it in particular - is subject to a fluctuating work load. The recent retrenchments at both the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories have to be viewed in that context. 
Clearly, each generation of defence aircraft lasts longer than the time taken to produce it. The next generation of aircraft is not yet determined. The current programmes are now ending, I refer to the programmes in relation to the Macchi and 
Mirage aircraft, and the next major equipment project - that is, the replacement of those 2 aircraft - is not expected to be undertaken for several years. Consequently, the Government has been encouraging the industry to become more commercially oriented. At the same time it is looking at the possibilities of rationalisation in the areas I have mentioned. In answer to a question which was asked of me by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who I know is interested in this matter and who I am glad to see is here this evening, I pointed out that plant at these 2 factories at Fishermen's Bend is very largely complementary and it is clearly in the long term interest of the industry, and the employees in it, for some merger and rationalisation to be achieved, if it can be achieved under the right conditions. I will not in the time at my disposal go into the work-load prospects. There are some. I think the honourable members who have taken an interest in this matter will be aware of them. 
I- wish, to deal now with the questions which were specifically posed by the honourable member for Corio. There was a large number of 'them. I will endeavour to cover all the points he made. When I talked with him privately in my office some time ago - I hope on occasions like this it will never be necessary for me to have a stenographer present - I think I indicated that rationalisation discussions were continuing and that a number of working parties were looking at the position in the broadest way. I also indicated to him that- it was not entirely certain that Avalon would necessarily come into such a merger or such a rationalisation, whatever final proposition may be decided upon if indeed - let me emphasise this point - any final proposition were acceptable to both the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government. 
The honourable member called on me this morning to clear up fully a number of questions. That simply would not be possible because these discussions are in their relatively early stages. I have indicated that these working parties are examining every aspect of the matter. Something in excess of 12 working parties are involved and I believe they are constituted approximately of equal numbers of representatives of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories. They are concerned with very many aspects, such as what the industry should be doing. Should it be in the field of assembly or part manufacture, or repair and overhaul? What facilities would it need for those operations? For example, would one machine shop and one tool room be sufficient? What will be the likely work load, as far as one can judge, in the future? An appreciation has to be made of that aspect. The work load would include the helicopters presently being constructed and the contract which has been made by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation with the Bell helicopters company. The Corporation is the principal sub-contractor for the Bell helicopter but a substantial part of the work will be done by the Government Aircraft Factories and by Hawker De Havilland Aust. Pty Ltd in New South Wales. An appreciation of major projects could be carried out. I am sure the honourable gentleman will agree that an important aspect to consider is what will be the rights, responsibilities and duties of all categories of employees in both the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories, and what, to approach a very difficult subject, would be their superannuation rights. 
I emphasise that there is no certainty that the merger, to give it a name, will go on. The honourable member mentioned that the suggestion had been made that perhaps this ought to be arranged within one year, and it had been suggested to the Australian Council of Trade Unions that it might take place in 4 years. All of that is conjecture. It is quite impossible to say anything precise simply because the negotiations are in their early stages. The honourable member mentioned itemising plant and suggested that some plant might be due for replacement. Of course, this would be a necessary part of the review. I cannot be more specific at this stage. The Government believes that it is in the interests of the industry and the employees that this consideration go on. We believe that it is probable that some scheme may be forged. I repeat that it will have to be agreed to by the company and the Government before anything can proceed. The Government is sympathetic to the position of the staff affected, but 1 repeat that it is in the long term interests of that industry, if it is to survive, and its employees that some rationalisation - that word covers a wide scope - should take place. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, so far as my Department's purchasing is concerned, is as follows: 
Defence specifications against which tenders are invited for the DefenceGroup of Departments require that vehicles conform with the Australian Design Rules for Motor Vehicle Safety. These 
Design Rules are prepared by the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design and endorsed by its parent body the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The Council is comprised of my colleagues the Minister for Shipping and Transport, as Chairman, and the Minister for the Interior, and each State Minister for Transport. 
Besides specifying that vehicles meet Australian Design Rules, tender schedules also include detailed requirements for safety features' appropriate to the particular type of vehicle. Defence tyre specifications have until recently called for normal commercial standards. The latest specification defines 'normal commercial standards' more precisely and calls for more than the minimal standards. 
My Department also procures limited numbers of vehicles for other Departments from time to time. Tenders for such vehicles specify normal commercial standards or other standards, as requested by the Purchasing Authority. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This matter has not been under my notice. I think that the questions which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has linked with it ought really to be placed on the notice paper. 
For the information of honourable members I present Report No. 2 of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee entitled 'Strontium 90 and Caesium 137 in the Australian Environment During 1969 and Some Results for 1970'. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not evert receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies to assist their work in these countries. 
As some 20 million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on' Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Three year improvement and maintenance programme Stuart and Barkly Highways, Northern Territory. 
The proposed work is the first phase of a comprehensive 10 year programme to upgrade the highways to an acceptable standard of serviceability and safety and includes resealing 455 miles of pavement, strengthening and widening 218 miles and re-aligning 55 miles, and construction of 12 bridges and 9 culverts. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $16m. The Committee has concluded that there is a need for the highways to be upgraded and has recommended construction of the works in the reference. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, in so far as vehicles operated by the Department of Supply are concerned, is as follows: 
Statistics are not compiled of the average mileages obtained from tyres or batteries purchased for Commonwealth cars. 
Statistics are not compiled of the average cost of tyres or batteries purchased for Commonwealth cars. Average costs per mile of tyres and tubes for Commonwealth cars for the last three years are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question, in so far as vehicles operated by the Department of Supply are concerned, is as follows: 
No statistics are held of the average mileage travelled by Commonwealth cars each year prior to 1968-69, nor can these figures be compiled now as vehicle history cards are destroyed 12 months after disposal of the vehicles. Average mileages for the last 3 years are as follows: 
The Commonwealth Police Force is not under my control and 1 have no responsibility for it. The film which is in the hands of the police and has been in the hands of officers of my Department is, firstly, a 5 feet lead strip, to which the honourable member has referred, showing only identification and classification on it; secondly, a black and white print and a negative of that print found at the home of the person who was charged and to whom the honourable member referred; thirdly, a copy of 18 inches of film of missile firing which was found at the home of the person accused; and, fourthly, certain copies of other film which was obtained from a South Australian newspaper and from the person accused. The only film available and held was that which was presented to the court. !As the honourable member knows, the magistrate dismissed the charge because he believed that there was insufficient evidence on which to make a conviction. 
The honourable member would be aware, I am sure, of an article which appeared on one of the Sunday newspapers that referred to some of these matters. He seems to have obtained some information from it. That article contained a number of inaccuracies and misrepresentations. Perhaps he was encouraged to put this question today because it gave him the appropriate name for the occasion. Might I say that the United States authorities are not involved in this matter. The United Kingdom authorities have been kept acquainted df it. There is no cover up involved at all. The investigating authorities - my Department and the Commonwealth Police - have co-operated with one another. The charge which was laid and which was dismissed was a serious one for which the maximum penalty is 7 years imprisonment. It was seriously intended and prosecuted. That is in brief a summary of the position. 
I shall be very brief. I have received no instructions from anybody on this matter. I want to be very clear about that. I have spent some time looking into this matter, which involves security considerations. I have found nothing improper of any kind. I see no reason to respond in detail to what the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has said - in particular, to the article which he read, which I read some days ago and which I said this afternoon at question time contained many errors and misrepresentations. On those grounds, I see no cause to take any further action. 
I will look into this matter and ascertain the present position and let the honourable gentleman know. 
 The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has made his usual speech characterised more by heat than by light. But he did refer to one matter which I would like briefly to touch on. He took up the question of the Government's attitude to defence and its foreign policy when he suggested that the Opposition was every bit as interested in defence forces as is this Government. I want to make the point to this Committee that it is natural for Government supporters to take that view because every speech made by members of the Opposition on foreign affairs has stressed that there are no threats to our security and that there is no potential danger to us. In short the Opposition is prepared to put the most optimistic construction on events to strategic forces and the objectives of other nations. The Government has a responsibility to be more realistic than that, so it is natural that when the Opposition claims that it wishes to see built up the defence capacity of this country, Government supporters will say that it is interested only in- 
I am flattered by the many interruptions but I intend to make my point. It is obvious to those who have listened to these speeches on foreign policy that all that concerns the Opposition is the employment involved. The honourable member for Sturt referred to this matter which has particular connection with a number of factories and other establishments which are of concern to my Department. 1 wish to point out, as has been said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  on occasions, that it is silly to think in terms of building a defence capacity simply in order to provide jobs. I pass those remarks on to the honourable member so that he might think about them. 
I want to make particular reference to a few of the comments made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in relation to the aircraft industry because the Opposition has seen fit to move a relevant amendment to these estimates. At the outset I want to say that on the question of rationalisation of the aircraft industry in the Fishermen's Bend area, to which he referred, between the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories, no decision of any kind was made in relation to this on 12th October. It is regrettable that so many rumours are circulating in respect of purported conditions which are the subject of investigation and consideration. - 1 suppose there is a very understandable desire on the part of some to know in advance what the final decision, if there is to be a decision, will be - which parts might or might not come within the merger and also the other terms. Many suggestions have been made in the speech by the honourable member and by others. Because there is not sufficient time to deal with them in this debate I want to say that of all the suggestions I have heard made by him and others as to the final decision, most of them are not true, some of them are not fully in context and others are, as yet, not fully negotiated, let alone decided. The honourable member mentioned, I think, 2 important points. Firstly, he said that he could not see that a private profit organisation - he was referring to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Limited - could be fitted adequately into the defence pattern. Surely the quick answer to that is that it is already. He questioned whether what he called the profitable sections of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation - the helicopter and engine sections - would be included. He suggested that they would not be. This, I repeat is part of the negotiation. 
But to get this matter into context I should like to say briefly, at the risk of some repetition, what is the present position. The Government's policy concerning the aircraft industry has been, and continues to be, to maintain an effective defence aircraft industry in Australia. In looking at the scope of the industry, and in order to be clear what that scope is, let me refer briefly to the establishments. There are 3 main production organisations. Firstly, the Government Aircraft Factories operated by the Department of Supply at Fishermen's Bend and Avalon, Victoria, having capabilities of design, manufacture, assembly, testing and overhaul of aircraft and guided weapons; secondly, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, also at Fishermen's Bend, Victoria, with capabilities in airframe design and in the manufacture, assembly, testing and overhaul of air frames and jet engines; and, thirdly, Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd at Bankstown and Lidcombe, New South Wales, with some design capability and capabilities in the manufacture, assembly, testing and overhaul of air frames, and the manufacture of piston engines and the overhaul of piston, turbogroup and turbojet engines. These 3 organisations, along with other contractors associated with the industry, employ some 7,000 persons. The Government has invested heavily in the fixed assets operated by the industry. The cost to the Commonwealth is in excess of $30m. 
A brief look at the past workload of the industry will clearly demonstrate the outworking of the Government's policy to support an effective defence aircraft industry. Since the Second World War, which gave rise to the establishment of this productive capacity, we have seen a major productive undertaking for all requirements where the numbers have justified tooling up in Australia. This is true of the Sabre, the Canberra, the Vampire, the Mirage and the Macchi. Over the same period support has been given to such well known local projects as the Winjeel piston-engined trainer, the Malkara anti-tank weapon, the Ikara anti-submarine missile and the Jindivik pilotless target aircraft. 
The important matter, however, for consideration is the present effort of the Government to support its stated policy. It is recognised by the Government that the defence aircraft industry relies heavily on defence orders for its basic workload. At the same time we find that workload peaks and troughs occur in meeting defence orders because the life of an aircraft is longer than the period of manufacture and the difficulties in staffing and management are a cyclical. At present we are in a trough between the end of the Mirage production run, the substantial completion of the Macchi production run and the major reequipment programmes of the Services. A great deal of effort has been put into developing work for the industry. I shall mention the major projects. The first is Project N. The Government has agreed to the expenditure of some $4m on the development of a local design for a light utility STOL aircraft. The first prototype of the aircraft has flown successfully and the Government expects to be giving consideration to the production phase of the aircraft in the near future. This project has provided valuable work for the design and engineering group at the Government Aircraft Factories. 
The Government also has approved an arrangement for light observation helicopters whereby, as a condition of receiving an order for 75 military helicopters the Bell Helicopter Company of the United States of America also will produce 116 helicopters in Australia for the commercial market and build up to a pre-determined level of Australian content. This project will not only assist with the workload for the industry, particularly in the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, but also will fill a gap in Australia's aircraft industry capacity and provide effective support over the life of the helicopters. 
Thirdly, the Government has approved the design of a high speed pilotless target drone for low level missile attacks, called the Turana. The drone is being developed by the Government Aircraft Factories and has undergone successful flight trials, which are continuing. Further, efforts have been made by the Government in developing workload opportunities for the defence aircraft industry through off-sets, coproduction or sub-contracting and they have been substantial with prospects for a greater increase. Special machinery has been created for the purpose. Some success has been achieved but long term effort is becoming involved. A joint Department of Supply and industry team is leaving Australia this week to seek orders from France. It is being made apparent to the overseas suppliers of major defence and other equipments that a great deal of attention will be given to the opportunities offering to Australian industry from proposals received. 
The projects that I have mentioned evidence the effort being made by the Government to encourage and develop workload for the industry, particularly workload utilising local design and engineering capacity which is so important to the role of the industry in Australia in providing support for the Services. 
In referring briefly to the possible rationalisation of the industry at Fishermen's Bend, I say that the projects that I have mentioned will not meet the problems if the industry is not in itself economic and effective. The Government believes that the defence aircraft industry needs to be more commercially oriented and that there is some scope for rationalisation of activities in the industry, particularly in the Fishermen's Bend area where the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation operate on adjacent sites with much of their plant being complementary. This matter is under active consideration by both the Department of Supply and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. The results of about 12 working parties can be expected to receive consideration by the Government in the new year. But I emphasise that any rationalisation scheme that might be adopted will have, as its aim, the achievement of a more effective and economical defence aircraft industry which it is the policy of the Government to support. The interests of the present staff of both the 
Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation will be kept very much in mind. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The potential military interest in 
Project N is currently under examination by Departments of Defence, Air and Army. The Government will consider later, after the military interest is clearer, whether Project N should Proceed to production.It has always been understood that our military requirements alone would not be sufficient for economic production of the aircraft. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has been advised of the aircraft's capabilities. It is considered that it would be inappropriate to give small numbers of aircraft as aid before the aircraft were in general use in the area and service and maintenance facilities established. A market survey has been carried out in the South East Asian area and we will be endeavouring to promote sales of the aircraft in the area, as well as elsewhere overseas, if it is decided to proceed to production. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Defence Standards Laboratories regularly test products to examine their suitability to meet various requirements of Government Departments, mainly of the Defence Group. A number of these products are manufactured or used by the automotive industry and. thus might be regarded as automotive trade products. In addition products are tested as representative of a type rather than of a particular manufacturer. Reports on such tests are prepared and distributed on a confidential basis to the requesting authorities only and in some instances, particularly on the latter type of tests, to other Government Departments. These reports are not printed nor are they published in open literature. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The design, development and production of Project N has been planned in 3 separate phases. Phase1 covers the basic design of the aircraft, manufacture of 2 flying prototypes and one structural test airframe and the test flying of the prototypes. Phase2 covers activities required to bridge the gap between the prototype phase and the commencement of production (Phase 3). 
The aircraft is still in phase1 but certain activities have also commenced under Phase 2. The timing achieved to date has been very satisfactory. 
To date (22nd November) the first prototype has successfully completed 47 hours 35 minutes of test flying in 45 flights. The second prototype is now being prepared for flight. Although the complete flight test envelope has not yet been covered the results indicate that the aircraft will achieve better than design expectations. 
It is expected that the cost of authorised work on this project, when adjusted for escalation in wages and materials costs, will be within the approved figure. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled.The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount spent on purchases (a) throughout Australia and (b) in Tasmania in each of the last 3 years is as follows - 
 As I said earlier, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is very sorry that he is not able to be .here to take part in this debate tonight. Honourable members are aware of his interest in this matter. The Government is unable lo accept this amendment at this time, although the Minister certainly will examine Hansard closely to see the various suggestions which have been made and the arguments that have been put. In my remarks now, I will refer to amendments (1), (3) and (4) on the list of amendments circulated by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Honourable gentlemen who have spoken feel that cannabis, cannabis resin and cannabinoids not being narcotics should be described or listed differently from narcotics such as heroin. While the amendment may place cannabis cannabis resin and cannabinoids in a separate schedule, in fact by definition these remain narcotic substances. As the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  mentioned, this does not affect the penalty provisions in any way. I appreciate the motives which prompt this part of the amendment, but I would assure honourable members that the terms 'narcotic substance' and 'narcotic goods' are purely descriptive. They merely describe the various drugs. 
To be consistent it would be necessary to separate not only cannabis, cannabis resin and cannabinoids but also other drugs listed in Schedule VI which also are not narcotics in the true sense, such as LSD and cocaine. While the terms 'narcotic goods' and 'narcotic substance' might not be ideal, the use of terms such as drugs of abuse' could be equally debatable. There is nothing sinister in the use of these 2 descriptive terms. Indeed, drugs such as cannabis and cocaine have for a long time been commonly referred to as narcotics. I would welcome any proposal either here or in another place to provide a more appropriate descriptive term than narcotic'. It is believed that no good purpose is served by providing a separate schedule for cannabis, cannabis resin and cannabinoids as is envisaged by the 3 amendments. Indeed, such amendments would appear only to render the Act a little more cumbersome without any commensurate gain. 
As I understand it, this does not require amendment. It is my understanding at the moment that this proposal would be acceptable and that it will be arranged in the printing. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 to 6 - by leave - taken together. 
My understanding is that that would be the maximum penalty. [ think that this is the position in all of the Acts. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
Section 233b of the Principal Act is amended - 
by inserting in paragraph (b) of sub-section (1.), after the word 'applies', the words 'or exports, or attempts to export, from Australia any prohibited exports to which this section applies'; 
by inserting after paragraph (c) of subsection (1.) the following paragraph: (ca) without reasonable excuse (proof whereof shall lie upon him) has in his possession any prohibited imports to which this section applies which are reasonably suspected of having been imported into Australia in contravention of this Act, or'; 
 I thank the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  for his assistance and the points that he made. In referring to the other aspect of the speech of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  I just want to state that the Government rejects this amendment believing that these provisions are necessary for effective administration and law enforcement. I will not read out the revelant section because it is somewhat lengthy, but if the honourable member were to refer to the second reading speech I am sure he would find substantially the Government's view of the position. We oppose the amendment. 
 I accept the motives of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and I understand the force of the proposition which he is putting. However, the provisions of clause 8 derive from the agreement which has been reached between the Commonwealth and State governments and therefore we could not accept this amendment at this time. In any event, there would be a need to consider more carefully the drafting of such an amendment if it were proposed. The only suggestion I can make is that the Commonwealth and State governments would have to consider this proposition jointly in the future. If it was agreed to we would consider a draft which, with respect to the honourable member, would need to be somewhat more tightly drawn than the amendment is. With those few remarks, I say again that the Government opposes this amendment. 
I will not traverse those arguments. Without necessarily accepting all of them in complete detail the Government is prepared to accept the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 9 - as amended - agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has asked me to reply briefly in this debate as he is unavoidably absent. As honourable members will realise, he is very disappointed at not being able to reply to this debate on a matter in which he is particularly interested. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and other honourable members opposite have made this afternoon much mention of the cause of drug abuse and have suggested that increased penalties are not the final remedy. We have heard similar statements by the Minister for Customs and Excise but we must keep things in perspective. There are probably some 4 avenues by which the problem can be attacked. As I mention these avenues I am sure that honourable members will recognise the importance and place of each. 
They are: firstly, law enforcement; secondly, treatment; thirdly, education; fourthly, the environment itself. 
The law enforcement role is to prevent the illicit traffic in drugs. The police and customs officers have co-ordinated their efforts. Because this avenue is the concern of this Bill I shall return to it a little later on. But let me say now that it is hoped that it is one of the short term actions to safeguard the community until a more effective long term objective can be achieved. The need for treatment facilities is not ignored but one would hope that this will also be a relatively short term necessity. Despite whatever treatment facilities exist we must try to stop the illicit supply of drugs and the creation of new addicts. Of course it is desirable that addicts be treated rather than punished but honourable members must realise that the addict must be willing to be treated. One must remember that the addict selling drugs, the so-called pusher, has to sustain his own habit and thus poses a tremendous threat to society. While recognising the desirability of rehabilitating addicts at the end of the day the question of treatment or penalty must be left to the wisdom of the courts. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  specifically referred to this. Certainly this Bill does not take away from the bench its normal powers. But the longer term avenues for attacking the problem are, of course, education at all levels of society and the environment. I am sure that most honourable members would accept that proposition. 
 I was a little surprised to hear some comments concerning education. However, I do accept the importance of research. Quite a deal was said about alcohol and tobacco but no argument was advanced about the dangers of these and the question surely to be answered is this: Why should we as a society foster or tolerate a further hazard? On the question of cannabis, certainly there are some doubts about the danger of its use. You can quote from all kinds of publications on this subject but on which one of these authorities or sources do you rely? The Government relies on the World Health Organisation and the United Nations. These bodies say that that drug is dangerous. In any event a person who will traffic in this substance today will probably traffic in heroin or 
LSD tomorrow. His only interest is in the dollar that he earns from it. Why should such a person be tolerated, as has been submitted? 
Let me say that it is primarily against these persons that this Bill is directed. The Bill, following consultation between Commonwealth and State experts, has put forward a formula for identifying prima facie a trafficker. He does not deserve to have the sympathy of anyone. He deserves the full rigours of the law and thus the Commonwealth Government has the responsibility to introduce the penalties as agreed with the various State authorities. In conclusion, while I accept the good intentions of many arguments put by honourable members opposite and the honourable member for Oxley in particular, I believe the Bill should proceed without delay or amendment to afford the community the kind of protection that it deserves. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hayden's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
 I think that the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  made the most powerful point that emerged in this debate when he pointed out that this method of attempting to formulate policy by the Labor Party 
Opposition is really no policy whatsoever. He pointed out that there were some 22 attempts by the Opposition to set up select committees or the like in order to examine certain aspects of government. It has been, . I think, very plain in the last year or two that the Opposition cannot devise policy with any precision and has to resort to this technique in coming in .here and speaking very superficially and loosely about difficult matters such as social questions, political questions and  economic questions and speaking very superficially also upon the motion that a committee ought to be set up. I submit that that is no substitute for policy but only a trick or a device that is used by the Opposition. Obviously honourable members opposite regard it as a good device but it is only a device used to cover up a lack of policy. I suggest that it Would be more appropriate for a Party  which holds itself out to be the alternative government of this country to sit down and do the hard work itself, devise a policy with some precision and bring it into this place, have it debated and not simply run away and suggest that a committee ought to be set up. 
I will speak further on this matter because I think it is an important one and it is time that it was examined. The honourable member opposite who is looking at me now is a great advocate in this place for the setting up of numbers of committees. I think we have to face fairly and squarely the fact that there is a limit to the number of committees that can be set up. There is a limit to the time which honourable members can spend on committees. They have many other functions and I do not have to tell honourable members that. They have their electoral problems, they have to participate in the debates of this House and they have to write their speeches. Presumably they have to discuss policy - at least we on this side do - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An in-depth study of the practicability of a merger of the 2 organisations is now in progress. The study is a complex one however and it is not expected that any firm recommendations will be made to the Government until the early months of 1972. At this stage it is too early to say how the matter will be dealt with following Government consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1) (a) Information on the number of apprenticeships made available in past years by my Department is not readily available. 
The numbers of apprenticeships filled in each year since 1965 are shown in the following tables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The basic principle of Government purchasing policy is that it should be carried out as far as practicable under a system of free and open competition. The aim is to obtain the best value for the money spent by accepting the lowest suitable tender. 
To place tenderers from different States on an equal footing, however, tenderers are invited to quote on the basis of delivery only to their capital city. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  principal components of the Department of Supply's annual expenditure in any State are the capital and non-capital expenditure, salaries and wages incurred in running the Department's various factories, establishments and adminstrative offices. 
The Department also lets contracts on behalf of the Defence Group and some other Departments. Details of all such contracts are published in the Commonwealth Gazettes. Information is not readily available on principal commodity groups purchased in each State. 
 If the honourable member has a particular area of interest, I would be happy to see whether additional detail could reasonably be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
As mentioned in my reply to Question 4817, all States are given an equal opportunity to participate in defence business. I have not investigated the reasons for the varying levels of actual participation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staff and equipment at Woomera Village required for maintaining town services such as rubbish disposal and drain cleaning has not been drastically reduced since 1967. In answer to a previous question related to this subject (Question on Notice, No. 887, Hansard 3 June 1970, Page 2903) it was indicated that there had been a decrease in staff, partly as a planned reduction and partly due to difficulty in recruiting labour. No further planned reductions have taken place since then but difficulty in recruitment has been experienced. When necessary, assistance to the Section concerned is provided from other sections of the Woomera work force. 
No. 
There have been 12 cases of hepatitis in Woomera since 1 July 1971, 6 in September and 6 in October. One of these was from a Commonwealth Railways camp at Wirraminna, some 40 miles away 
Yes. 
The report of the Senior Medical Officer did not establish the cause of the original infection but indicated that the subsequent spread of the disease was most probably due to close personal contact. All residents in the Woomera Village were advised to pay particular attention to personal hygiene. 
As the honourable gentleman will know, I recently had an opportunity to visit the Lithgow Small Arms Factory. 
I am sure that it does, and I thank the honourable member for it. I had an opportunity in particular to look at the factory there, to acknowledge to the men the high quality of the work they do and to examine their particular problems. I do not believe that it is in the public interest that in every case, irrespective of price and cost, material should be made in Australia or at Supply factories including the Small Arms Factory. However, I do believe that it is highly desirable that all that can be done ought to be done in order that the price can be competitive and the maximum work load can be put into that factory and into others. I and the officers of my Department are doing everything possible in order to remain competitive and to maintain as great a work load as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, relating to cars operated by the Department of Supply but not including cars on weekly hire to other Departments, is as follows: 
No instructions have been issued specifying a ratio of use between Commonwealth cars and hire cars (or taxis). Commonwealth cars are used within normal operating hours to the extent they are available. The primary consideration is to ensure that maximum efficient utilisation is made of Commonwealth cars. Contractors' cars are normally used for work: 
required at times outside normal operating hours of Commonwealth cars; 
beyond the capacity of Commonwealth cars. 
The paid mileage ratio of Commonwealth cars to contractor cars is in the order of 60:40. 
The ratio of non-paying to paying mileage for Commonwealth cars is 14:86. 
 A debate on the Australian economy in the national Parliament ought always to be treated with seriousness because of the influence of economic factors on the life of each of our citizens. One would expect members of the Opposition, who have had so much to say on this subject in recent weeks, to be here and take some interest in the debate. At the moment there is a mere half dozen or so Opposition members in the chamber. 
A responsible government must have a consistent set of economic policies to meet the economic problems of the moment. It is quite irresponsible and destructive for a Labor Party spokesman to make emotive criticisms at random, as did the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in his speech last Thursday evening, and to be carried on a flight of indignation towards the objective of calling for great increases of expenditure in one particular avenue. That is not an economic policy. It is just a shallow means of trying to attract support. 
However, apart from the superficial flights of fancy, let us be clear that there are in the Australian Labor Party some determined Socialists - I believe sincere men - and  1  want to have something to say about their decisive effect on Labor's economic plans in the future, should this country be so unfortunate as to find itself with a Labor Government. I think this is important because these men would have their way and the present leadership is far away from acknowledging that Socialism would result. 
First, let me discuss - necessarily briefly In the time allowed to me  -  what are essential matters in the economic debates of today. In the Budget presented last August the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  set what was termed a Budget strategy. This strategy can be summarised in mis way. The Budget was aimed to serve an overriding economic purpose to diminish inflationary pressures; that is, to check the increase in costs and prices which cause increasing economic and social hardship to the majority of Australians and, as the Treasurer said, 'add to the burdens of rural industries already depressed, disrupt development plans of great promise and undermine possibilities of growth which our future unquestionably holds'. Linked with this is the need to maintain a steady rate of economic growth to improve the standard of Living of everyone. That has been the consistent policy throughout. The House will be aware of repeated attempts to misrepresent it. 
The national economy is an aggregate of all the economic influences of each citizen and is thus complex, pulsating and at times turbulent. Psychological factors as well as world conditions play on our economy an important part. There is no possible panacea. There is no absolute certainty of future events, but there are economic facts, realities and good judgments by men of experience which can be and have been applied in the interest, not just of short term gain, but in the middle and long term to help create a more secure Australia. 
It is of no value at all to criticise by selecting a particular point - perhaps an anomaly - and inject into one's speech an emotional content to try to build up a picture of disaster engulfing all. I would have thought it utterly clear to everyone that the well-being of the majority of Australians depends on maintaining a high productivity growth while keeping a fair degree of price stability. I would have thought that such a state is not reached by promising to spend money every time a group in the community makes a demand or that such a state is not reached by advocating on every occasion less work and more pay, as do the Labor Opposition and many trade union officials. Insofar as the Government has powers, and insofar as it believes it ought to involve itself in the affairs of individuals in the private sector in the public interest, the Government does have some influence and engages in some economic management which it carries out by fiscal and monetary means. 
In a consideration of the economic aspects of inflation, employment and economic growth, there is one clear fact which is that only by an increase in productivity can the national economy increase and only by increasing the size of the national cake will there be more to cut up. There seems to be some difficulty in grasping the concept of productivity. But it is only another way of saying that the labour and machines in our country must be worked and organised to produce more goods and services per head of population. Each can play one's part in this. That is why it is so evil for members of the Labor Party and trade union officials to encourage men into a 'class war' level of thinking creating disruption, lower incomes and dissatisfaction on the part of people both with their work and the part it plays in thenlives. 
Let us examine some of the statements made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. (Quorum formed.) I must say for the record that the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  usually calls a quorum when he wishes to take up the time of a  speaker.  I thank him for the acknowledgment that I am having, at least on him, some effect. As I was saying, let us examine some of the statements made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, who is the financial spokesman for the Labor Party and its 'shadow Treasurer'. The honourable member is, I believe, a sincere and dedicated Socialist. I shall refer to what that means more fully in a moment. But when speaking on the Treasurer's statement last Thursday evening he certainly did not present an overall policy but went along commenting at random. Unlike the rest of us, he had more than half an hour in which to make a contribution, and I believe as chief spokesman he had a duty to do so. But a close examination of his speech shows that what he said was not helpful or constructive. After a careful look I could not find a positive proposal of substance. 
The honourable member made some play about the term 'economic mismanagement'. We must be careful to realise what this term means to a Socialist - nationalising industries right through the economy would be only the start. However, I shall return to that later. On page  277  of Hansard the honourable member said: 
Candidly I am not one who believes that unemployment is deliberately created- 
He referred at that point to the Government and I thank him for that. The honourable member went on:  but I think unemployment has been created in Australia out of economic mismanagement. Until one removes that economic mismanagement, and looks at what the seeds of it are it is going to increase. 
Having made those strong statements I would have expected a full explanation of this economic mismanagement and what was to be done about it. But there was nothing - nothing of the kind. The honourable member, who is the official spokesman on economic matters for the Australian Labor Party, changed the subject. 
An important area of Socialist belief - price control policy - which eventually would be imposed on the leadership of the Labor Party, now has to be faced in an election year by the people of this country.  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, is fond of suggesting price control and making invalid comparisons with wages paid. He asserts that the earnings of trade union members are controlled by awards and that those of business are not. The plain truth is that employees' wages are not controlled by awards but only minimums are set. That is the law, and that is the practice. Indeed, over-award payments are not only legal but are extremely common and frequently substantial. 
Setting aside the constitutional difficulties which exist in our federation where States rightly claim areas of authority - though we all know that the Labor Party does not want the States to have any authority - one finds in these economic arguments a great tendency to brush aside constitutional problems, even by Labor Queen's Counsel. Price control by coercion of governments has failed as a method of preventing price rises in peace and in war. Labor has always wanted price control, and however the matter may be glossed over in an election year, Labor would implement price control if it formed a government, because Labor governments have always resorted to it before long. Labor's theoreticians believe in price control. 
The practical results of price control are shortages, inefficiency and the discouragement of initiative and inventiveness. Price control results in controls and restrictions in every aspect of business, both small and big. It results in droves of inspectors, black markets and rackets, and then when the inflationary wage pressure effect is received the government has to agree to price rises. So in spite of all the paraphernalia and restrictions, the prices still go up. That is the practical experience of price control. It does not work. But a Labor government, based for its support squarely on the trade unions, sooner or later has to try price control. (Quorum formed.) 
I thank the honourable member for La Trobe for reminding me that there were 7 Opposition members and 40 Government supporters present in the chamber when attention was drawn to the state of the House. 
This is a discussion of a matter of public importance raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and which reads: 
The failure of the Government to clarify and safeguard the future of the Australian aircraft industry. 
The honourable gentleman said by way of interjection to my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  a moment ago that the debate was about the future of rationalisation and he wanted to know what was going on. I put it to the honourable gentleman that they are not the terms of this matter of public importance. He has pre-judged the position; he said there has been a failure. That is of importance too because if one cares to look at the debates in the Senate and in this House in the course of the last year or so it will be seen that a great deal has been said about the aircraft industry by Government spokesmen.  Major statements  were made by my predecessor on 9th April 1970 and on 4th November 1970. He answered questions on the subject, as the. responsible Minister and I did too - on 6th October 1971, page 1990 and 9th November 1971, page 3158. I refer to these occasions not only to reply to the point that the honourable member mentioned but also to record now that that information is there and to anyone seriously interested in this subject I suggest that they read some of those remarks which are complementary to what will be said in this debate because I do not propose to go over a lot of that ground again. I have only 10 minutes available to me. 
The Government has given a good deal of support to the aircraft industry in spite of what we have heard this afternoon in the 2 speeches from the Opposition side. Might I very briefly go over the ground. All aircraft which have been required by the Services in Australia in sufficient numbers since the end of the Second World War have been made here in the Government Aircraft Factories, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd or by Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. These aircraft include Canberras, Sabres, Winjeels. Vampires, Mirages and Macchis - all sophisticated aircraft. Some 550 have been manufactured here to a large extent, including jet engines. This shows the remarkable capacity of the Australian aircraft industry. In addition Australia has designed guided weapons. It has manufactured some 900 Malkaras some 435 Jindiviks - and there are prospects of a further sale to another country - and something over 1,000 highly sophisticated Ikara missiles together with ships' gear and launchers. 
As we well know, the present problem is that the defence aircraft industry, which includes the 3 establishments I have referred to, employs some 7,000 men and the industry includes maintenance as well as the capacity of the commercial airlines. It is an industry which, unfortunately, as the Minister for Defence has said, has its peaks and troughs. This is so all over the world. At the moment all over the world it is in a trough. We are in a stage of lowered capacity and work load brought about by the fact that the need for aircraft which have been assembled or manufactured here - the Macchi and Mirage; the big jobs of the past - is no longer there and until replacement aircraft come along to increase the work load there must be a period of diminished activity. The reason for this clearly is that the life of these aircraft is longer than the time it takes to manufacture them. So we are in a trough and have these production programmes finishing. The work load now is mainly in respect of the Jindivik and Ikara, offset co-productive work, overhaul modifications, spares manufacture and the Turana, which is our high-speed low-level target drone. 
The Government is trying to develop more projects which can be handled by the aircraft industry. We are promoting sales. I was able recently to announce sales to Brazil amounting to some $20m. The manufacture of the Ikara for the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Navy is proceeding. We are promoting more Jindivik sales. Admittedly it is a target aircraft at the end of its life but there are prospects for further sales. We are continuing with the Turana development and an initial production order for 12 were received recently from the Royal Navy. Very soon there will be the selection of an aircraft which will replace the Winjeel and one can say that there will be some Australian participation in its production. In addition there is the Bell light observation helicopter project involving some 191 helicopters, most of which are to be built in Australia; however, I will not go into the details of that now. It is a contract which the Government initiated and concluded in such a way that there would be a significant work load to the industry. There is on the horizon the collaborative production and development of the replacement of the Macchi jet trainer. When overseas recently I had an opportunity to discuss some production possibilities for our aircraft industry, including the Government Aircraft Factories. The Hawker Siddeley 1182 and the Alpha-jet are 2 that the Government is looking at, and others are making representations to the defence group. In addition there is the production of Project N. A good deal has been said about that. On this I am urgently seeking a decision. The Minister for Defence has mentioned the circumstances in relation to it. It was said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the industry brought this project forward. That is simply not so. The Government authorised this aircraft and put towards it $4.5m. The project is now at the next stage. 
The major question now, and one which is some way off, is what Australia can do to participate in the production of the replacement for the Mirage. Let me say to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and other honourable members interested that the Government is very interested in .lis industry and is making great efforts to obtain offset work for it. But such work has to be practical, economic and really beneficial to our defence capacity. We have contracts valued at some $5m in hand and there are very great prospects of further opportunities before very long. Let me make another point which is frequently overlooked. When there are suggestions of purchases by other countries of project N and Turana we should remember that officially those offers and contacts are being made in the context of selling Australia other aircraft or weapons. What we are offered is a package deal, not just an isolated sale. We have to consider, together with the Services and the defence group, whether a particular aircraft offered is one which will fit into our programme and is part of our requirement. It cannot just be a question of blindly buying something we do not need in order to sell our own product. 
In the couple of minutes I have left to me in which to speak I want to say something about rationalisation. A working party to the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has investigated this matter. Its report was given to me last Friday. I read that report on Sunday and discussed it in Melbourne on Monday morning. That is another example of the action which is being taken by the Government - coming back to the subject of this debate - to clarify and safeguard the future of the Australian aircraft industry. I think that this matter is something which has to be considered in its proper context. I would point out in regard to the question of rationalisation that there are 2 adjacent establishments in Fishermen's Bend which employ some 3.700 people, that those establishments have considerable assets between them and that they are of a substantial size. Therefore they are of basic interest to not only the Australian economy but also the aircraft industry. I have mentioned certain work which is being done in the aircraft industry. A great deal of that work is done in that area. (Extension of time granted) I thank honourable members. In the consideration of any rationalisation proposal very serious thought would have to be given to the effect of rationalisation on the work force. I do not think that it would be possible, as a matter of practical negotiation and organisation, to get a quick result. One has to remember that in the sorting out of equipment and plant which would necessarily precede rationalisation - I will return to that aspect in a moment - there would be, of course, a great deal of work which is other than normal work. So I do not believe that, as a result of rationalisation, there would be any immediate difficulty insofar as the work force is concerned. 
I do think that I should refer briefly to some of the things that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said. Let me assert at the beginning that I think that the report on rationalisation establishes a case for greater efficiency and capacity. What we now have to look at are the structures of management, the financial arrangements, the terms and conditions and the objectives that would be involved if these 2 organisations were to come together. Of course, it would be very much a question from now on of negotiations between the 2 parties. One of the problems which will arise is what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to as the relative status. Obviously that would be fundamental. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went on to talk about whether rationalisation meant closer co-operation or a merger. That is one of the reasons why the report was prepared. It was to examine what could be done. I think it is becoming fairly clear, and I was pleased to hear him say, the economic case appears to honourable members on the other side of the chamber to be overwhelming. I think that that is exactly what the report discloses. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition also went on to say that it was the view of honourable members on his side of the House that the CAC would dominate any joint enterprise. I do not know what is the source for that statement, but I would suggest that it is not correct. I would also suggest that all the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said after making that assertion is invalid. I query whether the saying of such things helps in the present situation with the degree of uncertainty which exists in these establishments. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition went on to refer to the position of the Hawker De Havilland organisation. I do not want to say very much on that subject. All I want to say is that the position of that company, which is largely its business as it is a private company, is something to which some urgent consideration is being given by the Government. 
Substantial aspects are involved about which the Government is concerned. I have been in personal contact with the company - as, of course, have officers of my Department - on a number of occasions. In fact, I spoke with the  Chairman  of the parent company and with others in London recently. I would emphasise that important considerations are involved in the industry as a whole which will not be resolved very quickly. 
I believe that there are a few members of the Opposition who are very interested in this subject, but I think I should point out that only the required number of 8 members, or just a few more, were present to enable this matter to be brought forward when it was called on. It is perhaps a pity that this matter was raised by the Opposition at a time when the proceedings of this chamber are not being broadcast. I think it is fair to say that no tremendous interest is being shown in this matter by a great number of members of the Opposition. But I think it is my duty as a Minister involved in this area to say that I have found in the ranks of the alternative government a dilemma on this matter. I believe that the left wing members of the Opposition are opposed to defence expenditure but that they realise that to cut it off would result in men losing their jobs and that they do try to have a bit each way. There are many debates in this chamber on foreign affairs and, according to the official spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party, there is no threat or likely threat to Australia. I suppose the Opposition wants to appear to be sympathetic, hoping to please those who are employed in defence industries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Weapons Research Establishment Officers did, however, request that miners move for their personal safety from a current impact area approximately 30 miles south of Coober Pedy. 
The review of the Prohibited Areas referred to in response to Question No. 3084 is continuing and includes consideration of the Coober Pedy area. 
The Maralinga Prohibited Area, which comes under the control of the Department of Supply, is an area of about 30,000 square miles which was the subject of a land grant from the South Australian Government. Certain small areas there are still unsafe for long term occupancy as a result of the testing of nuclear weapons in that region some years ago. but the matter is under consideration on a government to government basis between the Premier of South Australia and the Prime Minister. That consideration is being carried on urgently at present and I am hopeful that the Governments, will be able to arrive at an early decision in that respect 
There has been a good deal of comment recently about this matter, particularly in the South Australian Press. I think it is right to say that the great bulk of the money which was spent on the establishment of the township there was provided by the United Kingdom Government. Those assets were handed over to Australia in 1968. Shortly afterwards the Government concluded that Australia had no defence use for those facilities. That is the reason for the present situation. Representations have been received from the South Australian Government and the matter is under active consideration. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the provision of a guarantee by the Commonwealth to a $US4.5m ($A3.8m) borrowing by the Administration of Papua New Guinea from the Asian Development Bank. The proceeds of the loan are for re-lending by the Administration to the Papua New Guinea Development Bank and will meet the foreign currency component of a number of development projects financed by that Bank in Papua New Guinea over the next 3 years. The loan is the first which the Asian Dev elopment Bank has made, to the Administration since the admission of Papua New Guinea to membership of the Bank in April 1971. Accordingly, it is the first occasion on which Parliament has been asked to approve a guarantee by the Commonwealth for a loan made by the Asian Development Bank to the Administration. However, Parliament has on several previous occasions approved similar guarantees by the Commonwealth in respect of loans from the International Bank for reconstruction and development to the Administration. 
The loan documents, which are shown as schedules to the Bill, were settled recently during negotiations in Port Moresby which were attended by representatives of the Asian Development Bank, the Administration, the Commonwealth Government and the Papua New Guinea Development Bank. The principal purpose of the Papua New Guinea Development Bank, which is a statutory authority and commenced operations in 1967, is to provide finance for primary production and for the establishment and development of industrial or commercial undertakings, particularly small undertakings. The loan from the Asian Development Bank will make a valuable contribution towards meeting these purposes. The. loan carries an interest rate of 3 per cent per annum and will be made from the special funds resources of the Asian Development Bank. Repayments will commence in 1975 and be completed in 1987. 
Borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Administration automatically carry a Commonwealth guarantee by virtue of the operation of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1971. Borrowings guaranteed under this provision are, however, mainly local borrowings and borrowings in Australia. However, the letter of assurances shown as the First Schedule to the Bill, which is required from the Commonwealth as a pre-condition of the loan, must be authorised by specific legislation. I would mention that at the time of Papua New Guinea's admission to the Asian Development Bank Australia gave an undertaking to the Bank in accordance with article 3.3 of the Agreement establishing the Bank that, until Papua New Guinea itself assumes responsibility for its own international relations, Australia would be responsible for all obligations that may be incurred by Papua New Guinea by reason of admission to membership in the Bank and enjoyment of the benefits of such membership. 
The Bill authorises the Treasurer to notify the Asian Development Bank that the Commonwealth approves the terms and conditions of the loan for the purpose of making the loan effective. The Bill provides that the undertakings in the letter of assurances shall be valid and binding obligations of the Commonwealth. It also provides for freedom of payments from Australian or territory taxation or restrictions imposed by Australian or territory law. It includes an appropriation on moneys required for the Commonwealth to make any payments under the guarantee. Certain assurances are also required from the Commonwealth by the Administration in connection with the loan and, while these have not yet been finalised, I expect to be able to table the text of them for the information of members before the debate on the Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the dosing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps toe 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There would be no special difficulties associated with the operation of the Project N aircraft in countries where normal facilities exist for the service and maintenance of light aircraft. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While 1 am aware that the French Government has expressed an interest in- Project N, particularly as a possible reciprocal purchase. I am not in a position to comment upon any specific use for the aircraft which France might contemplate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Indonesian National Development Minister and Army Chief of Staff were shown a prototype of Project N at Essendon during their recent visit. 
As this aircraft is still in its prototype stage there is no further action necessary at this stage to follow up the interest shown by them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
the range of the Project N aircraft at 140 knots, 10,000 feet altitude and International Standard Atmosphere is as follows: 
For Prototype N22 (military version): 920 statute miles. 
For Prototype N 24 (civilian version): 965 statute miles. 
The endurance or number of hours flying time, is as follows: 
For Prototype N 22: 9 hours. 
For Prototype N 24: 10 hours. 
The foregoing figures are design estimates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United Kingdom and Germany have in production pistonengined aircraft of similar size to Project N but of inferior STOL capability. The Canadian aircraft industry has announced its intention to produce a STOL. aircraft almost identical in size to Project N. 
The programme of consideration by the Government of the future of Project N will not harm the export sales potential which from all indications is likely to be very good. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No steps have been taken to direct to Government establishments work arising out of the programme to develop and produce a 1-ton general service vehicle for the Department of the Army. 
Yes. The special facilities required for the design and production of motor trucks are firmly established in Australian industry and are not available in Government establishments. The Project is therefore appropriately oriented to the motor industry and has been so directed. 
In accordance with the under taking I gave to the House on 22nd March, while moving the second reading of the Papua New Guinea Loan (Asian Development Bank) Bill 1972, I present for the information of honourable members the assurances given by the Commonwealth, as requested by the Administrator of Papua New Guinea, in connection with the loan. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster General's Department, Central office policy of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management. Area Mail Centres. Area Par- cel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office, until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alterationto the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department,to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty, bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Barnard, Mr Bennett, Mr Lloyd, Mr Keogh, Mr Bonnett, Mr Sherry, Mr Giles, Mr Fulton, Mr O'Keefe, Dr Everingham, Dr Solomon, Mr Davies, Mr Hamer, Dr Jenkins, Mr Foster, Mr Grassby  and  Mr Griffiths. 
Petitions severally received. 
A similar petition was presented by  Mr Hansen,  and was received and read. 
For the information of honourable members I present a special report by the Commonwealth Grants Commission on the application made by the State of Queensland for financial assistance from the Parliament of the, Commonwealth under section 96 of the Constitution. 
-I move: 
That  the  Bill be  now read  a  second  time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of a special advance grant of $9m to Queensland in 1971-72 in accordance with the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission contained in its report on Queensland's application for such a grant which has already been tabled. Special grants are paid by the Commonwealth to financially weaker States, to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue and higher costs in providing government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States. When special grants were first paid they were the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially weaker States for this purpose. The main way in which special compensatory assistance is now provided is through the higher per capita financial assistance grants paid to the four less populous States. The financial assistance grants are, of course, the main general revenue grants te the States. The special grants may, therefore, be regarded as supplementing the financial assistance grants, but as having the special characteristic of being independently and expertly assessed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
Up to 1959, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania received annual special grants on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. South Australia withdrew from the special grants system as from 1959-60 and Western Australia as from 1968-69, but Tasmania has continued to apply for a special grant each year. 
At the June 1970 Premiers' Conference the then Prime Minister indicated that each of the four less populous States was free to apply for a special grant on the recommendation of the Grants Commission should it believe that its financial assistance grant Was too low relative to New South Wales and Victoria, which were granted additional grants of $2 per capita at that Conference. South Australia applied for, and received, a special grant in 1970-71, and continued as a claimant State this financial year. Queensland applied on 30th September 1971 for a special grant for 1971-72, bringing the number of claimant States at present to 3. 
 Normally the States make their applications for special grants well before the beginning of each financial year, and the Commission then makes its recommendations in time for the necessary legislation to be passed in the Budget session. Thus the special grants to South Australia and Tasmania in 1971-72 were authorised by the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill 1971 passed last year. Because of the timing of Queensland's application, the recommendation by the Commission concerning that application has become available only recently. 
The method used by the Grants Commission, briefly put, is to calculate grants which will bring the claimant States' budgetary positions up to those of the States taken as standard - at present New South Wales and Victoria - after allowing for differences between the States concerned in their financial practices and in efforts to raise revenue and control expenditure. This involves a detailed comparison of the standard and claimant States' budgetary revenues and expenditures. 
The payments of special grants recommended by the Grants Commission consist of 2 parts. One part - known as the advance grant' - is based on an estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is subject to adjustment 2 years later when the Commission has compared in detail the Budget results and standards of effort and of services provided in that year for both the claimant State and the States which it takes as standard. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance grant made 2 years earlier and is known as the 'completion grant'. It may result in the final grant in respect of that year being higher or lower than the original advance payment. Thus, the amount of $9m recommended by the Commission for payment to Queensland this year will be subject to adjustment in 1973-74. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission's assessments of advance grants are based on necessarily approximate estimates of the claimant States' financial needs in the current financial year. In this instance, the assessment is even more tentative than usual because Queensland is a newly claimant State and the Grants Commission has not yet had the opportunity of making a detailed examination of Queensland's financial practices compared to those of the standard States. Details of the bases on which the Commission reached its decision, including summaries of submissions put to it by Queensland and by the Commonwealth Treasury, are set out in its report. 
The present Bill is very similar in form to previous legislation authorising the payment of special grants by the Commonwealth to the States. Clause 4, it might be noted, authorises the Treasurer to make payments to Queensland in the first 6 months of 1972-73 up to a maximum of $4.5m, which is half the grant payable this year. The purpose of this clause is to enable monthly payments to be made in the early months of 1972-73, in accordance with normal practice, against any special grant which might be recommended by the Commission, and approved by Parliament, for payment to Queensland in that year. Since the inception of the Commonwealth Grants Commission its recommendations have always been accepted by the Commonwealth Government and by Parliament and the Government considers that the present recommendation should also be accepted. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
by leave - For the information of honourable members I present the following paper: 
Report No. 3 of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee entitled 'Fallout Over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia from June to August 1971'. 
The 3 reports of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee dated February 1971, May 1971 and December 1971 which have now all been tabled provide much detailed information. Because of the concern felt by many about radioactive fallout - most of it needless concern - I wish to advise the House of the present results and overall position. There are 2 committees which keep the Commonwealth Government fully informed on the situation of radioactive fallout in Australia. The Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Comittee (AWTSC) which reports to me as Minister for Supply conducts 2 complementary monitoring programmes. The first programme has operated continuously since 1957 and is devoted to monitoring the levels of long-lived radioisotopes in fallout - that is, strontium 90 and caesium 137. Particular attention is given to these elements as they are considered potentially the most hazardous of the radioactive materials released into the environment from nuclear testing. The second programme is directed mainly at the much shorter-lived radioisotopes in fallout (including Iodine 131) which are of significance only in the few months immediately after a nuclear test, and the programme is instituted when it is considered that fallout from a particular test or series of tests may reach Australia. Report No. 3 details results from such a programme. 
The  Chairman  of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee -  Sir Ernest  Titterton, a nuclear physicist of considerable standing who has done most significant work for the Commonwealth - keeps me informed on developments in both monitoring programmes. The other members on the Committee are the Commonwealth Director of Meteorology; Director, Commonwealth X-ray and Radium Laboratory; Committee and Executive Officer. Defence Standards Laboratories in the Department of Supply. I should mention that in formulating its monitoring programmes the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee takes note of the technical results and recommendations of a number of international organisations. These include the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR). the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP), and the United Kingdom Medical Research Council. Australia makes a major contribution to the data utilised by UNSCEAR from the southern hemisphere. All results from the fallout monitoring operations in Australia have ben published in full in the scientific literature listed in report No. 1, that is continuing. 
The second Commonwealth committee is the National Radiation Advisory Committee (NRAC) which reports to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and advises the Commonwealth Government on matters concerning the effects of ionising radiation, whatever its origin, on the Australian community. The results of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee's monitoring programmes are immediately made available to the National Radiation Advisory Committee for analysis. These 2 Committees co-operate closely. The report, Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee No. 3, which I have presented today, concerns the shorter-lived fallout of fresh fission products in Australia from 9th June to 26th November 1971, following nuclear tests by France in Polynesia. France conducted 5 nuclear weapons tests in the period from 6th June and 15th August 1971 at the test site in the islands of the Tuamotu Archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean. Fresh fission products from these tests first became evident in fallout over Australia in late June 1971, some 16 days after the first explosion, and were monitored thereafter by the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee to determine radiation doses to the whole body and to the thyroid. Monitoring ceased in late November 1971 when levels of fresh fission products in the fallout became so low as to make no further effective contribution to the radiation doses. In measuring the extent of the external gamma radiation doses to the whole body as a result of these tests computations were made from the measurements on fresh fission products in fallout using an Australia-wide network of 26 stations. In this report it is concluded that the levels of radioactivity remain very, very low and that the gamma radiation doses from the fresh fallout were between 0.1 and 2.2 millirad. The normal gamma radiation in the environment is many times these levels. The measurements shown are upper limits and correspond to about 0.1 and 2.2 per cent of the average annual background radiation from natural sources. 
Relatively speaking, potentially the most hazardous short-lived radio-isotope in fallout of fresh fission material is iodine 131. In 1965 the National Radiation Advisory Committee, in line with recommendations issued by the United Kingdom Medical Research Council, following a detailed study of radiation protection guides, adopted a safety level of 840 millirad for iodine 131. That is to say, the Council asserted that iodine 131 would not endanger health, pro- vided the dose accumulated by children over a period of a year in consuming milk did not exceed 840 millirad. That figure is regarded as conservative. The Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee programme of daily sampling of milk for assay of iodine 131 content in fallout from the French nuclear weapons tests, covered 9 major population centres and included the milk being consumed by about 75 per cent of the total Australian population. The measurements indicate that radiation doses to thyroids of young children consuming fresh cow's milk range from 4 to 62 millirad per annum for the milk supplies monitored. These, too, are upper limits. These doses are very small when compared to the National Radiation Advisory Committee guide level of 840 millirad, which, for a year of continuous exposure, would not endanger the health of the population. Of course, continuous exposure to the minute doses recorded does not occur. In one major respect, this fallout differed notably from the pattern of fresh fallout observed from earlier tests in Polynesia. This was in the dominant contribution made by debris from the second explosion in the series, which occurred on 13th June 1971. It was found that material from this explosion was present to a greater or lesser extent in all fallout subsequently monitored in Australia from the entire series. The Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee considers it is likely that the second explosion involved a high yield device with a substantial fission component. I emphasise that the total radiation doses from fresh fallout over Australia in 1971 were lower than those received for the 1966 series of French nuclear weapons tests in Polynesia, and comparable to those for 1968 and 1970. 
I take this opportunity to refer generally to the current world situation of nuclear fallout. Prior to the resumption of nuclear weapons testing by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in September 1961 much of the radioactive debris from earlier tests had been deposited. The extensive test programmes by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1961 and 1962, and by United States of America in 1962, injected more radioactive debris into the atmosphere than had all previous tests. These relatively large injections were followed by small, but relatively heavy, deposits of strontium 90 and caesium 137 in the northern hemisphere during 1962 and 1964 and, a year or so later by much lighter deposits in the southern hemisphere. Since 1965 there has been a steady downward trend in the annual fallout rate of strontium 90 and caesium 137. France and China are today the only countries testing nuclear explosions in the atmosphere. The USSR and USA continue to test nuclear weapons but these are conducted underground and there is no global fallout from them. 
The overall world situation on radioactive fallout is, therefore, that the only new injections of this material into the atmosphere, currently, are from testing by France and China. Fallout from French operations is most evident in the southern hemisphere, and that from the Chinese in the northern hemisphere. These additions to the radioactive contamination of the environment, however, are being made against a background of the strontium 90 and caesium 137 remaining from the earlier tests. The levels of nuclear fallout in Australia - both old and new - are very low indeed and do not constitute a hazard to health. Nevertheless, the monitoring programmes to which I have referred are being maintained and the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee will continue to keep a close watch on the situation. 
In conclusion, I take the opportunity to report to the House the possible effect in Australia from the accidental release of plutonium 238 to the world environment, a matter that has received some publicity recently in the Press. Newspaper reports have referred to the release of plutonium 238 into the world environment in April 1964 as a result of the burn-up of the power generator contained in a United States satellite which disintegrated on entering the upper atmosphere after failing to gain the desired orbit. Plutonium 238 does not occur in nature - it is man-made. 1 emphasise that plutonium 238 is not a fissile material and it is not used in nuclear reactors or nuclear weapons. The nuclear properties and applications of plutonium 238 are distinctly different from those of plutonium 239, the well known nuclear weapons material. 
The Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee has assisted and cooperated with the United States Atomic Energy Commission in a world wide programme to monitor plutonium 238 in the environment by con ducting sampling and providing materials from Australia for analysis. The International Commission on Radiological Protection has undertaken detailed study and has adopted a level of concentration of plutonium 238 in the environment to which the general population could be exposed continuously without significantly endangering its health. The current concentrations of plutonium 238 in the Australian environment, which are generally representative of the southern hemisphere are between one ten thousandth and one thousandth of the International Commission on Radiological Protection levels and can in no way be considered a hazard to health. I present the following paper: 
Radioactive Fallout In Australia From Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia - Ministerial Statement, 13th April 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
 in reply - The debate on the 2 Bills before the House - the States Grants Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) - has been a wideranging one. I do not propose to try to answer every point raised, although I will see to it that where a matter has been raised which calls for some comment it is provided to the honourable member concerned. First of all I think it should be noted that these Bills, in spite of all that has been said, have the unanimous support of honourable members on both sides of the House. Without going into the detail given in the second reading speeches which introduced the Bills, the assistance provided in the Bills is very substantial. However, it is only a small part of the very large amount of assistance given by the Commonwealth to the States to help them to discharge, at their own discretion, their constitutional responsibilities. Recognising the States needs, the Commonwealth in recent times has increased dramatically its assistance to the States. For instance, it is estimated that the amount provided during the year 1971-72 will be almost $290m more than the States would have received under the arrangements which existed previously. 1 turn now to the major points raised. Honourable members mentioned - particularly those who spoke early in the debate - the position of local government authorities. Apparently it has to be said many times in this House before it sinks in that local government authorities are created and function under State laws. They are basically a State responsibility. 
The honourable member will have to read some constitutional law; 1 cannot help him any further. The Commonwealth makes available for the general assistance of the States large amounts of money. The States have to decide their competing priorities between the needs of local government and between the needs of country and city. I note that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has now walked out of the chamber. He apparently does not want to hear this. 
Yes, after the speech he made he would want to. He clearly does not understand the difference between a general grant and a specific grant. I point out that the sum total of the general grants made by the Commonwealth to the States is greater than one-quarter of the total funds which the Commonwealth receives per annum. One must add to that figure the special purpose grants which are made from time to time in legislation passing through this Parliament. The Commonwealth has as part of its budgetary consideration to decide what can be done from time to time, given the other demands on the resources available to it, to put the States in a position where they can adequately meet their financial responsibilities including their responsibilities in respect of local authorities given the competing priorities, which they like the Commonwealth encounter. 
I turn from those general points which amazingly seem to have been lost sight of in this debate. 1 listened with interest to the shadow Treasurer for the Opposition, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and 1 must say that 1 enjoyed his remarks as I usually do, although I did not agree with all of them. He put the issues of the 2 Bills in such a broad scope that when one examines them one finds that they lack substance. While one might agree with a number of the points that the honourable member made and the concepts he put foward, he did not come to grips with any of the problems and he ended on the note that CommonwealthState relationships generally came up at the fag ends of debates as though they are of no significance. Honourable members have had an opportunity in this debate to go into these matters. Very few honourable members have availed themselves of the opportunity to do so. I ask the honourable member for Melbourne Ports where in his remarks can we find any solutions. There are none. Where, indeed, can we find any proposals? There are none. So I say with seriousness that the honourable member's contribution was therefore without substance and was almost entirely theoretical. 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  whom we heard before the dinner suspension, said that there were off-setting reductions to the financial assitance grants when payroll tax was handed over and that the transfer of payroll tax did not make the States any better off. When payroll tax was transferred to the States the Commonwealth reduced its financial assistance grants by a figure which was S22m less than the revenue lost to the Commonwealth when the payroll tax was transferred. This repesented a net gain to the States before they increased the rate of payroll tax. In relation to the other points the honourable member made, in spite of the tables of statistics which he had incorporated in Hansard, I can say only in a fairly friendly way to my West Australian friend that his remarks were appallingly glib and mindlessly parochial.  His  speech showed no understanding of these financial matters but considerable understanding for what he belives certain people would like to hear. lt was not policy he was putting forward but propaganda. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  said, amongst other things, that when the Commonwealth made tied grants the States would not make any further effort beyond that necessary to match the Commonwealth grants. He seems to have missed the whole point of this legislation. These Bills provide general purpose grants, not specific purpose grants. In fact, 85 per cent of all revenue grants and 70 per cent of all grants to the States are general purpose grants which the States can dispose of as they wish. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie, too, showed that he had no understanding of these matters. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  then treated us in this debate to yet another of his instalments of misrepresentation of educational standards in Australia. He spoke in particular of the science grants and facilities. So these points, too, must be made again: Independent schools in each State have standards committees which determine from among the independent schools which have the most urgent need. In addition there are 2 advisory committees, one for Catholic schools and one for non-Catholic independent schools. These committees determine the timing; in other words, they decide which school will receive the grant first. 
They then make recommendations. The honourable member for Bendigo apparently delights in picking out particular schools in an effort to give them some publicity but the particular school he mentioned is one of those which received a recommendation by these independent and objective committees. Decisions on the allocation of funds to State high schools are made very properly by the State government concerned. 
As I mentioned, the honourable member for Bendigo referred to a particular school and what he had to say about this school was in line with some remarks which he made and which were reported in the Melbourne 'Age' on 8th April 1972. However, his statement was completely wrong, for he was reported as saying that there was only one science pupil studying for the leaving examination at this school. The correct figure is 17. This year the school to which he referred has 116 pupils. The principle laid down for a school to qualify for a science laboratory is that it must have 28 science teaching periods. Thus the school is entitled to 2 laboratories on Australia-wide standards. In fact, 85 per cent of all capital funds allocated to government schools for the provision of science laboratories, libraries and teacher training is allocated to 78 per cent of children - those in government schools. As the House knows, the Government recently provided S20m to the States in special funds. So, I draw from those remarks about schools the conclusion that it is nonsense to compare a particular independent school with a particular government school. One must, in all fairness, look at the situation as a whole. It always will be possible to take a particular example - an unrepresentative example - but, to be fair and responsible, one must look at the question in the totality. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  who, as we have heard, really is very able at interjecting, raised the question of educational matters in Queensland, as did other honourable members. I suppose it would not be unfair to relate that to the State election which shortly is to be held in Queensland. The honourable member for Bowman made a claim that the needs of the unemployed in Brisbane were not being met by the rural unemployment relief grant announced at the Premiers 
Conference. As a result of the Premiers Conference, there was made available to Queensland additional general purpose funds of $2. 3m, capital grants of $1.1 8m, and additional loan funds of $2. 86m. None of this assistance is tied in any way. It is available for the Queensland State Government to allocate, as it desires, wholly to relieve rural unemployment. 
As I mentioned earlier, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie needs to understand this point when talking about the needs of the country areas versus those of the cities. Of course, the country areas do have needs and it is open to the State authorities to use general funds in any way that they believe is correct. I remind the House of the Bill that I introduced not long ago to provide an additional $9m to Queensland as a result of the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
Having made those points, let me conclude by saying that in the various matters which have been raised demands were made and I think that some of them were made sincerely. However, they were demands made in isolation. Demands which are worthy - as I have indicated, some of them are not - are considerd by the Government, which has the responsibility of balancing its priorities. It is very easy to make promises. It is very easy for members of the Opposition to say what they would do if they were in government and ' to involve themselves now in a commitment to spend vast sums of money. But the Commonwealth Government, through the Commonwealth Treasury, has the responsibility for the whole economy and for safeguarding the public purse and expending the funds of the people in the best possible way among competing needs. 

 Mr KENNEDY (Bendigo)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Australian' ran a series of articles on particular private schools - the most lavish and most exclusive private schools in Australia. In the series there was an article on Clyde, a school on which $63,000 in total costs has been spent on science laboratories. The article stated: 
Last year new science Laboratories were opened and the number taking physics, chemistry and mathematics at leaving level has increased from one to eight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
in reply - There have been only a few speakers in the debate on this Bill. I would like to refer to the remarks of the 3 honourable members who have contributed to this debate and to commend them on the seriousness of their contributions. I commend particularly the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the way that he treated this subject. He commented at some length on the economy of New Guinea and the indicators as published. Of course, we in this House know that he is a man who is interested in economic progress and in bringing a measure of objectivity to the matters on which he speaks. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  apart from raising one or two matters which I thought had a hint of party political purpose in them, was interested in discussing the New Guinea economy - and he certainly is qualified in this respect - with some objectivity. 
This Bill covers a loan which is the first that the Asian Development Bank has made to the Administration of Papua New Guinea since the admission of that country to membership of that Bank. The proceeds of the loan are for re-lending by the Administration to the Papua New Guinea Development Bank and will meet the foreign currency component of a number of development projects financed by that Bank in Papua New Guinea over the next  3  years. The loan carries the concessional interest rate of  3  per cent per annum and will be made from the special fund resources of the Asian Development Bank. Repayments will commence in  1975  and will be completed in  1987.  The Papua New Guinea Development Bank is a statutory authority which commenced operations in  1967.  Its principal purpose is to provide finance for primary production - .the aspect referred to by the  2  honourable members opposite I have already mentioned - and for the establishment and development of industrial or commercial undertakings, particularly small undertakings. The loan from the Asian Development Bank will make a valuable contribution towards meeting these purposes. 
I want to take up a point made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. He suggested, I think, that it is largely the fault of the Government that matters of this kind are raised at odd hours and not a lot of interest is taken in debating matters affecting New Guinea. I think the oppor tunity is here now to have a wide ranging debate. There are not very many members in the House at present. Only a few members have spoken in this debate. I suggest that it is not really the fault of the Government. This is a matter that ought to be of concern to members who make up this House. If there is blame, then the blame is to be shared by members on both sides. I assure the House that the Government, for its part, has a great interest in these matters, as is shown by its activity in Papua New Guinea and by the very substantial sums which have been given to help to develop that country - a matter which I believe in general has the support of the whole of this Parliament and of the Australian people. 
This loan in many ways is an innovation, but I suspect that it is one which will continue in the future. The economy of New Guinea certainly, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned, to a degree is tied up with the economy of Australia. I suggest that the economy of New Guinea must feel the effects of the levels of activity - the highlights and the flat spots - in our economy. That is inevitable. But undoubtedly the contribution by Australia to the economy of Papua New Guinea has enabled that country to grow at a reasonable pace and far more quickly than would have been possible without the Australian contribution. These are matters which the government of the day will in the future have to consider, I think, with increasing intensity. It will be necessary for us more and more to become involved in the detail of the proposals - of the many conflicting proposals - for the development of that area. 
One certainly can see in this loan a continuation of loans, but it is an innovation in which the Australian people will increasingly have to become involved in the interests of the region in which we live. Those honourable members who have visited Papua New Guinea - and I know that most honourable members have done so and I also know that most honourable members take a close interest in it - will, I suggest, increasingly become aware not only of the problems of its economy as a whole but also of the individual and regional difficulties which have to- be met to the maximum of Australia's ability. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act was last amended in 1970 when its operation was extended for 3 years until June 1973 at unchanged rates of subsidy. The Government then expected that this would enable gold mining activity in Kalgoorlie to continue to phase out gradually without serious disruption to the population and the economy of the area. The recent weakening of the demand for nickel in world markets has, however, made it difficult for prospective producers to obtain sales contracts. As  a  result the commencement dates for a number of nickel projects have been deferred. 
Following representations by the industry to the Government and those of Western Australian senators and members the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  announced on 14th December 1971 that it had been decided to increase the maximum rate of subsidy paid to large producers under the Act from $8 an ounce to $12 an ounce, with effect from 1st January 1972. Further representations were subsequently made that that measure of increased assistance would not enable Kalgoorlie producers to maintain production beyond the end of 1972. In order to sustain employment and activity in Kalgoorlie for a longer period, the Government now proposes that subsidised producers also benefit to the extent of one-half, instead of one-quarter as in the present legislation, of the premium by which prices obtained for gold exceed the official price of $31.25 an ounce. This increased benefit would also come into effect as from 1st January 1972. The Bill now before the House will amend the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act accordingly and will also extend its period of operation until June 1975. 
Approximately $32m has been paid to gold producers by way of subsidy since the inception of the Act. This assistance has been supplemented by a complete exemption from income tax of profits from gold mining. Under existing legislative provisions, expenditure on subsidy this financial year was estimated at 31.9m. Increasing the maximum subsidy rate for large producers to $12 an ounce is expected to increase expenditure in 1971-72 by about $400,000 and in a full year by about $lm. JJ premiums above the official price continue at the present level of about $8 an ounce, increasing the share of premiums retained by subsidised producers to one-half would increase subsidy expenditure in 1971-72 by about $300,000 and in a full year by about $800,000. The Bill also includes a provision to give the Treasurer discretion to extend the period of time within which a large producer must apply for approval in order to become eligible for subsidy. The Act already provides that the Treasurer may allow an extension of the period within which large producers may elect to claim subsidy under the small producer provisions of the Act and the proposed amendment would confer a similar discretion in respect of the initial approval of large producers for subsidy purposes. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings by the Commonwealth not exceeding the equivalent of $US34m - $A28.5m - to assist in financing the purchase by the Australian National Airlines Commission - Trans-Australia Airlines- of 4 Boeing 727-200 jet aircraft and related equipment. These aircraft, the total cost of which will be approximately $US42m - $A35.6m - are expected to be delivered between November 1972 and November 1974. 
Generally, when we have introduced legislation for borrowings to assist in the purchase of new aircraft by Qantas Airways Ltd and TAA, the loan agreements have already been signed, but have usually been conditional on appropriate legislative authority being given later. On this occasion, borrowing arrangements for the purchase of the aircraft, approval for which was given in January, have not been finalised at this stage. 
The amount to be raised for TAA will probably be borrowed in 2 currencies. An amount of $US 16.1m or slightly less than one-half of the proposed borrowings, will be provided by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Interest on this amount will be payable at the rate of 6 per cent per annum and repayments will be made over the last 5 years of a 10-year period commencing on the delivery dates of each aircraft. The documentation for this loan has yet to be settled. The major portion of the remainder of the proposed borrowings will probably come from European sources, at an interest rate comparable to that carried by the Export-Import Bank loan. The balance of the funds to be borrowed is expected to be provided by commercial banks in the United States. 
Other arrangements for the loans will be similar to those approved by Parliament for previous loans for TAA and Qantas in recent years. In particular, the Commonwealth will be the borrower in the first place, and the proceeds will be made available to TAA on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause 6 of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be identical with those under which the Commonwealth itself borrows the money. The airline will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreements. Consequently, the Commonwealth will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. The detailed terms and conditions of each of the loans to be arranged will be subject to approval by the Loan Council. 
This is the eleventh occasion on which parliamentary approval has been sought for borrowings by the Commonwealth on behalf of TAA. Borrowings under previous similar legislation now total the equivalent of $79.6m. Of this amount, $37.5m has been repaid by TAA while $42. lm is still outstanding. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the provision of a guarantee by the Commonwealth to a $US10m, that is $A8.4m, borrowing by the Administration of Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The proceeds of the loan will assist in financing a telecommunications development project in Papua New Guinea planned for execution during the period 1972-75. At the same time, the International Development Association, an affiliate of the International Bank, has approved a credit of $US9.2m, or $A7.7m, to help finance improvements to shipping facilities at Port Moresby, Lae and Kieta, and the construction of a new small port at Alotau. The credit will be made to the Administration and will be for 50 years, including a 10-year grace period. It will carry a service charge of only a  i  of 1 per cent per annum. The Administration will on-lend the funds to the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board for a term of 25 years, including a 4-year grace period, at an interest rate of 7.25 per cent per annum. The credit will also be guaranteed by the Commonwealth. 
The International Bank loan will be the second loan to the Administration from the Bank for development of telecommunications services. The first loan, for $US7m, or $A6.2m, was arranged in 1968 and covered the foreign exchange costs of a project which has provided a backbone of long distance radio links between the main centres and approximately 10,000 additional lines on local automatic exchanges. The first project is expected to be completed on schedule about the middle of this year. 
The second telecommunications development project was examined by an appraisal mission from the International Bank last year. As a result of that appraisal the bank offered to assist by providing a loan and the loan documents were settled recently during negotiations in Washington which were attended by representatives of the International Bank, the Commonwealth and the Administration of Papua New Guinea. Work on the new project will commence shortly and will take 3 years to complete. The project is designed to utilise and expand the facilities provided in the first project by the extension of telephone facilities and the installation of modern telex facilities. It includes the provision of about 13,500 lines of local automatic exchange equipment including the replacement of 3,300 lines of existing equipment, the associated distribution plant and subscribers' equipment, about 650 additional long distance circuits on existing routes, the installation of telex exchanges with a total capacity of about 600 lines and the provision of about 500 teleprinters. The total cost of the project will be about SA 14.4m and the loan from the International Bank will cover most of the foreign exchange component of this total cost. 
Borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Administration automatically carry a Commonwealth guarantee by virtue of the operation of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1971. However, with loans from the International Bank, a formal guarantee agreement is required from the Commonwealth and this must be authorised by specific legislation. The guarantee agreement for this loan, which is shown as the First Schedule to the Bill, follows the form of the 3 guarantee agreements previously approved by Parliament in connection with International Bank loans, to the administration. The present loan, which was sought by the Government of Papua New Guinea, will carry an interest rate of 7.25 per cent per annum and will be for a period of 20 years, with repayments commencing after 4 years. A commitment fee of f of 1 per cent per annum is payable on undrawn balances until the loan is fully drawn. 
The Bill provides for parliamentary approval of the guarantee agreement, ft makes consequential provision to ensure the effectiveness of undertakings in the loan and guarantee agreements regarding freedom of payments from Australian taxation or restrictions imposed by Australian law and includes an appropriation of moneys required for the Commonwealth to make any payments under the guarantee. It also provides for the amendment of the Papua and New Guinea Loan (International Bank) Act 1968 to effect certain minor amendments to the loan agreement and loan regulations for the first telecommunications loan as required by the present loan agreement. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate moneys to carry on the necessary normal services of the Government during the first 5 months of the financial year 1972-72. The total amount sought in this Bill is $1,317,790,000 comprising Departmental, $797,290,000; Defence Services, $495,500,000; and Advance to the Treasurer, $25,000,000. 
These amounts do not of course include the requirements for expenditure under special appropriations for which standing parliamentary authority is available under the relevant legislation. The amounts included for salaries and payments in the nature of salary represents estimates of the payments which will be made at existing rates of pay and employment levels over the 11 pay days falling within the supply period. The amounts included for administrative expenses are five-twelfths the 1971- 72 appropriations. Amounts included for other services are limited to commitments which departments will be required to meet in the supply period. No provision is made for new services. 
An amount of $25m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on ordinary annual services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  sow  read a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $370,594,000 for certain expenditures to carry on the necessary services of the Government for the first 5 months of 1972-73. The total amount sought comprises capital works and services, $313,533,000; payments to or for the States, $32,061,000; Advance to the Treasurer, $25,000,000. The amounts sought for capital works and services are in general to meet continuing commitments. An amount of $30m has been sought for advances by way of loan to the Australian Wool Commission. Whether the Commission, in the course of reserve price operations, will be making net purchases of wool in the early part of the 1972-73 selling season cannot be foreseen at this time. In the event that net purchases are made and other sources of finance are not available to the Commission, provision is made for the Commonwealth to advance funds. 
Provision has been made in the Bill for a subscription of Si Om of new capital to Qantas Airways Ltd. The company requires additional capital to assist in financing its capital equipment programme, which includes significant commitments arising from the introduction of Boeing 747 aircraft. The company will need this amount to meet some large commitments falling due in August and September next. In addition $5m has been included to provide for advances to the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, to assist in financing the 1972- 73 capital programme of ship construction and other equipment. An amount of SO. 8m is sought as additional capital for the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
Amounts included for payments to or for the States are based on existing arrangements for approved payments from annual  appropriations.  Generally, they do not exceed five-twelfths the 1971-72 appropriations but where the arrangement is for quarterly or half-yearly payments provision has been made accordingly. Other payments to or for the States will be made from special appropriations and the Loan Fund. An amount of $25m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make other advances which will be recovered within the financial year, and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The remains of HMAS 'Warrnambool' were relocated in 1970 by a diving group affiliated with a metal company in Sydney. The company sought permission from the Navy to carry out diving operations on the wreck and, if warranted, the right to salvage. As the Commonwealth retained ownership of the wreck, the Department of the Navy then decided to offer it for sale through the Department of Supply. 
by leave - The Government has recently considered representations for an amendment of provisions of the income tax law which authorise the allowance of tax deductions for capital expenditure on facilities used for the transport of minerals. Under the provisions, capital expenditure on natural gas transmission pipelines and roads, railways or pipelines used for the transport of crude oil or other minerals is deductible for taxation purposes over a period of 10 years. It has been put to the Government that, under the mandatory 10 year period of write-off, full deductions for the capital expenditure may not be available where income derived in the early years of operation of a transport facility is insufficient to absorb the deductions. In this situation, and given that the working life of a transport facility will generally be considerably longer than 10 years, it would be to the advantage of taxpayers to provide an option in the law under which the capital expenditure could be written off for tax purposes over a longer period. 
The Government has agreed that taxpayers should have this option. Accordingly, it proposes that, at the next convenient opportunity, Parliament will be asked to amend the income tax law to permit a taxpayer to claim deductions for capital expenditure on natural gas transmission pipelines, or on other facilities for the transport of minerals which qualify under Division 10a  a a,  over a period longer than 10 years. Where taxpayers use this option the revenue cost of the Division 10a  aa  concession will be less in the early years of operation of a facility than under the existing provision. This follows from the fact that deductions will be spread over a longer period. However, as I have indicated, the purpose of the proposed option is to allow deductions which otherwise could not be made, because income within the 10-year period at present prescribed would not be sufficient to absorb them. Hence use of the option by taxpayers will result in an overall cost to revenue in the long run. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to take up an increase of SUS 127.5m in its capital subscription to the Asian Development Bank, of which SUS25.5m is to be paid in, and the remainder to be on call. 
Australia is a foundation member of the Asian Development Bank which was established in December 1966. Membership of the Bank now totals 37 countries, 23 of which, including Australia and Papua New Guinea, are from the Asian region. The Bank's main objectives are to promote investment in the region of public and private capital for development purposes. The Bank carries out its objectives by the provision of loans and technical assistance to member countries for development projects. 
Participation in the Bank is an integral and important part of Australia's overall aid effort. As honourable members will know, our aid record is a good one. We have for some years been among the foremost donors when aid is expressed as a percentage of the gross national product. As far as the target of 1 per cent of gross national product for the net flow of resources to developing countries is concerned, we exceeded it in 1970 and on preliminary figures it appears that we will have exceeded it again in 1971. The decision to participate in the capital increase of the Bank is an expression of the Government's intention to maintain the volume and quality of our assistance. 
Under its charter, the Bank is empowered to conduct both 'special operations' and ordinary operations'. In the case of 'special operations' the Bank lends on concessional terms and can finance such loans mainly from resources contributed to special funds by its member countries. The terms of the loans financed from these funds have so far involved interest rates ranging from  H  per cent to 3 per cent per annum with periods of repayment extending from 16 years to 40 years, including grace periods of from 4 years to 10 years. In the case of 'ordinary operations' the Bank lends on somewhat harder terms and has to finance such loans either by drawing on paid-in capital subscriptions or by using funds borrowed for this purpose on the capital markets of the world. The Bank's lending rate is at present  li  per cent per annum with repayments spread over 10 years to 25 years, including grace periods ranging from 2 years to 5 years. 
The authorised capital of the Bank is $US1,100m and the subscribed capital, from which the Bank derives the funds for its ordinary operations', to date amounts to about SUS 1,005m. Australia's present subscription of $US85m is exceeded only by those of the United States, Japan and India as is shown in the following statement of subscriptions which I ask leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The normal close liaison was maintained with the Services to obtain suitable work for the Factory and, in line with the Government's responsibility to preserve essential defence capacity, special emphasis was placed, as from June 1971, on seeking commercial work from private industry and Commonwealth and State Departments and Instrumentalities. The result was that the Factory obtained a workload that enabled management to maintain stability in the level of employment. 
and (4) For 1972, the Department of Supply is continuing the policy of actively seeking defence and commercial orders. 
Orders obtained to date have been sufficient to maintain the general level of employment at the factory. Every effort is being made to obtain a forward workload that will maintain this employment level. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No Commonwealth Government Department has carried out investigations or trials on  Mr Field's  Hydrofield hull, either full scale or model. However officers from the Defence Group of Departments have witnessed trials conducted by  Mr Field,  of small craft incorporating this hull design. 
These trials and the information provided by  Mr Field  have not demonstrated that the design has sufficient potential advantage to the Defence Group of Departments to justify the Commonwealth's proceeding further. 
The  answer  to the hon  ourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 17 
23 
28 
The figure shown in (c) above represents cessations for reasons other than retirement or resignation i.e. transfers to other Department of Supply Establishments or other Commonwealth Departments, deaths or termination for misconduct. 
Salaried staff- 
The Government is considering various courses with a view to rationalising the Australian aircraft industry. As I have already announced to the House, a study has been carried out with a view to rationalising the industry which exists at Fishermen's Bend in Victoria. Some consideration has been given also to the industry in Sydney. A number of courses are being examined. For example, we are endeavouring to determine in what ways certain overseas countries can assist the industry here. Many parties are involved, and of course the Government is considering a number of proposals, of which I am sure the Deputy Leader of the Opposition will be aware, for offset work, co-operation work and other types of work within the aircraft industry in Australia. It will not be possible before the end of these sittings to make such a decision. The matter is likely, unfortunately, to go on for some little while because of the complexi ties and the number of parties involved. But I certainly conceive it to be my duty to keep the House and indeed the country informed and as up to date as is possible in all these matters. 
There is no deadline for rationalising the aircraft industry as the honourable member has suggested . As I replied in an answer to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition only last week, the Government is examining a number of courses of action embracing the whole of the aircraft industry and also has before it for consideration a number of proposals regarding the work load in this industry. There is no question of a deadline or cutoff or any sudden changes taking place. Until the matter is clarified there is no more that I can add at this stage. 
 I am speaking in reply on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  This debate has been a cognate debate on 2 Appropriation Bills. Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1971-72 seeks parliamentary authority for expenditure for which no provision was made in Appropriaation Act (No. 1) for that year. Appropriation Act (No. I) covers items for the ordinary annual services of the Government and includes requirements for salaries, administrative expenses, other services and defence services.  Major items  are referred to in the second reading speech. The other Bill, Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1971-72, seeks parliamentary authority for additional expenditure for which no provision was made in Appropriation Act (No. 2) for that year. Appropriation Act (No. 2) covers requirements for capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services.  Major items  again are referred to specifically in the second reading speech. 
Departments budget, in the first instance, on the basis of known cost and a large proportion of additional requirements relate to increases in cost since the Budget. Other items are required for new legislation and decisions made during the year. 
Many speakers have taken part in this cognate debate and have covered many areas and many subjects. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  was perhaps one of the few speakers who spoke directly on the Bills. I. acknowledge his thoughtful contribution and assure him that the suggestion he made will be weighed in a consideration of the Budget. Many items were raised by other honourable members and I will ensure that replies are given in writing to specific Treasury questions on these estimates. I shall not reply to them in these remarks. 
I do not propose to follow the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  through the realms of irrelevancy. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  all, I believe, made contributions which can be weighed, though they were not very closely related to these Bills. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  spoke about a matter which impinges directly on my own portfolio and I will certainly ensure that the matter he raised is closely examined. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  presented what might be regarded as traditional Opposition gloom; a sort of partisan gloom. In the remarks he made about the economy he said that unemployment was increasing. He went on to say that the figures did not bear this out so, of course, logically he was forced to say that therefore the figures must be incorrect. Obviously the figures are not incorrect. Clearly he did not like the improvement which has occurred in this area. He made a number of other remarks in that vein. 
I want to make some specific remarks about the speeches made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who moved an amendment to the motion that these Bills be read a second time, and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who spoke in this debate as the leading  speaker  for the Opposition. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports is known as the shadow Treasurer for the Opposition. The honourable member for Newcastle moved an amendment which was circulated. The amendment is in general terms, yet his remarks were specifically on the situation as he saw it - and I emphasise *as he saw it' - in Newcastle. He maintained adamantly at one point that it was not a political speech, but I think any fair-minded person who heard his remarks would form the opposite opinion. The honourable member invited me to take some action and he tried to compare his remarks with an approach that he made to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on another matter. But of course the honourable member omitted to say that without warning, as far as I was concerned, he had popped this into a debate which was half over and that he was inviting me to take precipitate action. Of course I would not agree to that. 
It is only proper to point out that it is quite absurd to talk about closing down complete sectors of industry. If this had happened it would have been reflected in a massive increase of unemployment and that simply has not occurred. What we have seen happening in recent days has been a decline in the total number of persons registered for employment. From a peak level of 130,000 at the end of January, when the figures were inflated by an influx of school leavers onto the labour market, actual unemployment has now fallen to about 93,000. In seasonally adjusted terms also total unemployment declined somewhat in April, the most recent month for which figures are available. On seasonally adjusted figures, declines occurred in all States except Western Australia and Tasmania. The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  who had such praiseworthy comments to offer about the Labor Government in Western Australia, might care to dwell on that point. The Government has always recognised that there are problems in specific areas and has taken measures to combat them. I refer, for example, to the scheme of grants to the States for employment creation works in non-metropolitan areas which include, of course, areas such as Newcastle, and to the rural reconstruction scheme. However, it is a fact of business and economic life that at any particular time some firms and industries have, good periods and others have bad periods. Those businesses which close down are replaced by those which start up and it is obviously necessary to look at the matter as a whole. 
The honourable member for Newcastle referred specifically to Newcastle and only to Newcastle. Specific measures for the Newcastle area obviously come within the constitutional responsibilities of the New South Wales Government. However, the Commonwealth is presently considering a request by the New South Wales Government for financial assistance with the construction of a graving dock at Newcastle. An examination of the honourable member's remarks will show clearly that he made a party political speech and I have no doubt that it was in favour of his candidature for the Newcstle electorate. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports asked a number of technical questions which, in the limited time available to me, I would like to take up. He asked why a saving of $2. 2m was made on drought assistance to Queensland. He asked whether it occurred because the drought was not as bad as was expected or whether there was something wrong with the mechanism by which drought assistance is made available to those people who should receive it. The machinery for distributing such funds is, as the honourable member would be aware, a State matter. Commonwealth assistance is given as reimbursement of expenditure already incurred by the State concerned. Both the original appropriation and the present appropriation are based on the Queensland Government's estimates of expenditure on drought relief. 1 understand that the main reason for the saving is that seasonal conditions were better than had been allowed for in the Queensland Government's original estimates. That factor accounts for practically the whole of the sum to which the honourable member drew attention. I think it is worth noting that over the 6 years ending June 1971 the Commonwealth provided almost $45m in drought relief assistance to Queensland. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports also drew attention to the increase between September 1970 and March 1972 in the holdings of Commonwealth Government securities by trading banks as referred to in the April 1972 Treasury Information Bulletin. The honourable member asked whether the large increase in government security holdings by these institutions means that the trading banks as providers of credit have lost their audacity'. He said that it seemed indicative that because of lack of confidence in the business community there is just not so much investment taking place and not so much recourse to trading banks for loans as occurred previously. The strong increase in holdings of government securities by the trading banks in the period to which the honourable member referred can be traced to 2 major factors. The first factor is the strong growth in trading bank liquidity in the first three quarters of 1971-72 emanating from Commonwealth budgetary transactions, the high rate of private capital inflow and the easier stance adopted on monetary policy since about September or October of last year, including the substantial reduction in the statutory reserves deposit ratio announced in December 1971. The second factor is the natural predilection of the trading banks to reestablish their liquidity positions from the relatively low levels which prevailed for a large part of 1970 and the first part of 1971. The very strong increase in new lending commitments of the major trading banks since all official constraints on their lending were removed late last year indicates both a willingness by the banks to lend, and, perhaps more importantly a willingness of the private sector to borrow. As indicated in the April 1972 Treasury Information Bulletin, new lending commitments by the major trading banks averaged a weekly rate of $69m compared with the weekly rate of $41m in the corresponding period of 1971. During the 2 months preceding mid-April new commitments were running at double the rate of a year earlier. 
I would like now to make one or two general observations on the comments of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The Government has explained at length in its statements its policies for economic management. They are there for those who will read them and try to understand them. They are policies which have been devised in the circumstances at a particular point. They are the best judgments on given situations and place no reliance on hindsight, an element which was so obvious in the honourable gentleman's speech. It is really ridiculous and glib to say that the Government has 'no sense of where it is going and just reacts to a situation'. That is a form of abuse and is therefore meaningless. Detailed explanations have been given and I am sure that honourable members who will read, listen to and try to understand those statements will be able to apprehend them. I underscore the point that to make a superficial criticism is not only unhelpful, but in the case of many is also a deliberate act. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said that the Government seemed to have had a 'great fear of unleashing savings'. If he reads the Budget speech of the Treasurer he will see that the Treasurer referred to 'potential demand' and said that it was more than possible because of the much greater rate of increase of savings by the Australian people as shown in the increased levels of funds in savings banks, building societies and so on. So to speak of a 'great fear of a sudden unleashing' is unreal when it is obvious that the Government has the responsibility to make judgments about what may happen. It is no great help for someone in the House, all these months later, to tell us that it did not happen. That type of superficial comment cannot really be seriously regarded. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports went on to make a few party political points about defence and other matters that I do not think require comment. In his speech, and in an earlier speech a week or two ago, he referred to what he called a desultory interest in this Bill and the way in which he said it seemed to imply that somehow it was the fault of the Government. Of the large number of speakers in this debate, the honourable member for Calare was one of the few who spoke on the Bill. The opportunity was given to do so but 2 of the honourable member's own Party took time out to discuss aircraft noise. That is permitted within the Standing Orders, but I point out that the opportunity to discuss the Bill is given and it is certainly not the position of the Government to do more than provide time. Honourable members can take the opportunity if they wish. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports went on to say that after looking at the Budget he considered that there was not enough expenditure in some areas and that there ought to be more expenditure in other areas. The honourable member gave one or two examples, but it is not impressive to look at one or two items in isolation. Appropriation Bills and the economy have to be seen in the context of the whole Budget. Any budget is necessarily a compromise between what the Government would like to spend and keeping taxes at the lowest level possible. The complaint has been made that taxes have been too high in some areas and that expenditure has been too low in others. I have no doubt that each person in this Parlaiment could say that, but it is no impressive argument unless it is part of an overall examination. It is very easy to say that there ought to be more expenditure and that taxes ought to be less. We all know that the demands for increased expenditure are numerous and vast. These demands come in on all sides, and increased expenditure necessarily requires increased revenue raising. 
It is all very well to call for more expenditure here and there - the Australian Labor Party does this several times every day - but let it be fully realised that this would result in higher taxes. As I understand it, the proposals of the Labor Party for health alone include a proposal to increase income tax by 10 per cent. Added to that, their demands for increases in social services, education and urban development, just to name some that quickly come to mind, grow into an enormous and irresponsible expenditure. So this debate has confirmed once again the view of the Government, that if the Labor Oppostion ever became the government of this country its policies would quickly result in vastly increased expenditure, much higher taxes and, not lower, but ever greater inflation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted (%1/ Charles Jones's amendment) stand part of the question. 
I must first say that the Department of Supply is concerned very largely with defence procurement, though the procurement section of the Department does some purchasing on behalf of the Department of Foreign Affairs in matters of foreign aid, and of course purchases equipment for use in the Antarctic. In the first instance, when overseas and domestic suppliers submit tenders, the overseas tender has added to it the usual costs of freight, insurance, duty and primage, if any, so that there is initially a comparison on a commercial basis. Any relevant tariff protection is afforded. Secondly, where the amount tendered is $15,000 or above and still results in the overseas supplier being the lower tenderer the Departments of Labour and National Service, Trade and Industry and Treasury have the opportunity to object. If they agree the matter can proceed, but if they disagree the tenders are referred to the Cabinet committee on government purchasing policy, which has already been announced, and which would consider whether the acceptance of a higher Australian tender would materially assist a depressed industry or contribute to a significant national development in Australia. There may be other reasons - one in which the defence group would be particularly interested is that of providing a defence facility in Australia or fostering it. This would also cause the Government to give preference to a higher Australian tender. 1 might add that where it is suspected that an overseas tender involves dumping it is now the practice not to eliminate that tender from consideration but to calculate a dumping margin, that calculation being carried out by the Department of Customs and Excise, so that a comparison can be carried out after that adjustment. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965, I present the twenty-sixth annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 31st December 1971. 
 in reply- This Bill seeks to amend the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act by, firstly, increasing the maximum rate of subsidy paid to large gold producers from $8 an ounce to $12 an ounce, secondly, increasing the proportion of the premium by which the prices obtained for gold exceed the official price of $3 1 .25 an ounce from 25 per cent to 50 per cent and, thirdly, extending the operation of the Act by 2 years from 30th June 1973 to 30th June 1975. It also seeks to make to the Act the administative amendment to which I referred in my second reading speech. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who just spoke in the debate, put his finger on the point of the speech made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  when he said that this is a matter which affects the electorate of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. 1 listened to a very party-political speech from the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. It was no surprise to learn from him that he did not think that the Government had done enough. That is always his cry. Indeed, with respect, it is always the cry of all members of the Opposition. 1 have never heard the honourable member for Kalgoorlie praise or approve of anything the Government has done. Of course, as has been said many times but which it is apparently necessary for me to repeat, the Government has a responsibility for the management of the whole economy and to see each proposal in the context of the whole. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie asked for a guarantee over a period. I am not sure that the Opposition's shadow Treasurer would agree with that. I think, if pressed, I could find remarks in some of his speeches which would put him in opposition to such a proposition. I think it ought to be recorded that the personal interest of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie in this matter is not really shared by his Party. There were only some 4 members of his Party in the House listening to his speech. Indeed, I think it is only fair to state that as soon as he finished the honourable member for Kalgoorlie immediately left the chamber. Apparently there is not a great deal of interest in this matter. 
As I have said, the Government has seen the need to make these amendments and to put forward these proposals in order to support the gold mining industry in Kalgoorlie. I think that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie recognised that the premium revision was most important and, by implication, he supported it. The position of the goldmining industry has been much improved by the dramatic price rise that is currently taking place in the free market. The Government, of course, is pleased for the gold producers to see that rise take place. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie complained about the free market price and speculated on what would happen if that price fell dramatically. However, it must be said that it is very hard to see any sign of that happening at present. 
The honourable member went on to make a number of references to the industry in his electorate. I think it is only fair to say that Kalgoorlie gold mines have congratulated the Government on its amendments, as has the Western Australian industry generally. The industry seems to take a much kinder view of the amendments than does the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. This revision should in part achieve the Government's objective and aim of keeping the Kalgoorlie gold producers going until the nickel producers can be phased in. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971, I present the Twenty-third Annual Report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial accounts. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House for a general debate to be held covering this Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1972 and the Income Tax (International Agreements Bill 1972 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I therefore suggest,  Sir, that  you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply - Honourable members will recall that public scrutiny of the Bill was invited when it was introduced into the House on 9th December 1971. Some requests for changes in the provisions of the Bill were received in response to this invitation. 
Some criticism was made of the discretionary powers that the Bill proposes to confer on the Commissioner of Taxation both in determining what is a dividend stripping operation and in applying the tests governing a public company subsidiary for income tax purposes. Some representations were to the effect that the proposed public company tests and associated safeguarding measures are to an extent retrospective in their application. There was also some criticism of the provisions to prevent the use of options as to trading stock valuations as a way of using the dividend rebate to obtain other kinds of income free of tax. 
The Government has considered these representations carefully. In general, however, there have been no matters raised for consideration that were not fully examined before the Bill was introduced. On the first matter - that of administrative discretionsexperience has shown only too clearly that some degree of discretion is essential if the intention of Parliament is to be given full effect. The discretionary powers that the BDI proposes to confer on the Commissioner will go no further than is regarded as absolutely necessary to safeguard the results intended by the legislation. I also remind the House that the way in which these powers may be exercised is subject to review by Taxation Boards of Review and by the courts under the ordinary processes of objection and appeal. The anti-tax avoidance measures in the Bill could not be expected to operate successfully without discretions. 
It is not proposed to change the Bill in a material way concerning the discretions, but in relation to dividend stripping an amendment Wm be moved in Committee. This will set out in the law matters to be considered by the Commissioner in forming an opinion as to whether a dividend stripping operation has been carried out. As to the second matter on which representations have been made, no change is proposed in the provisions of the Bill that will remove the opportunity to enlarge rebates on inter-company dividends by the revaluation of trading stock. The last matter concerns the suggestions of retrospectivity. In substance, the provisions complained of will simply prevent private companies from extending artificial tax avoidance arrangements far into the future. The provisions are not retrospective and no change in them is proposed. The review of the representations on the Bill has shown that its provisions may be deficient in unusual cases where companies have adopted irregular accounting periods. Amendments of a drafting nature will be required to overcome these deficiencies but the intended effects of the Bill will not be changed. The amendments have been circulated and will be moved in Committee. 
I wish now to refer to the remarks of honourable members, and particularly those of honourable members opposite. Firstly, the honourable member for Mel bourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  referred to the case of a person who, purchasing shares, would have the opportunity of waiting for 12 months. He was referring to the arbitrary cut-off time of 18 months provided for, as giving a chance for someone to watch the situation. He asked for my comments. It is certainly possible, but it does require a number of factors to combine in order to assist such a purchaser. Obviously no-one buys anything thinking that he will make a loss. I believe that such a person as he alluded to is likely to be a trader if he engages in many transactions, certainly in the number of transactions to which ;he honourable member referred when he mentioned someone turning the shares over in one or two days. That would disclose to the Commissioner that the person was a trader. Traders, of course, are not relieved by these proposals of paying tax in any way. 
The honourable member mentioned that this would apply to a capital gains tax and that is quite true, but I repeat that it is the result of making a fixed period. The honourable member also referred to the situation in which somebody makes a statement under section 52. I say that that does not automatically give a deduction, if the relevant facts indicate that the shares involved are acquired primarily as a capital investment. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports and other honourable members referred to 'taxation by stealth', and this has been referred to outside the House. Reference was made to a capital gains tax in effect being achieved by an assessment by use of section 26 (a). I certainly do not believe that that is so. 
As I understood the honourable member, he suggested that the amendment to section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act was a form of capital gains tax by stealth. In fact the amendment will not result in tax being imposed on any profits which are not of an income character and which are not already taxable. Speculative profits on shares sold within 18 months of purchase will as at present be taxable; capita] profits realised within the period will not be taxable. As to the quick turnover of shares - the honourable member referred to turnover in 2 days - the Bill will not vary the present operation because a person engaged in such activity would be a trader, as I have said. I would add that in my experience as a tax agent and chartered accountant I found that in practice it is not very difficult to separate a trader from an investor. Of course, where there is doubt the matter may be discussed with the Taxation Office. If necessary, an appeal can be made to a Taxation Board of Review or through the courts. But a study of proceedings before Boards of Review and the courts shows that very few cases involve listed shares, which are the subject of these Bills. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  referred to a capital gains tax but I do not think that this is an appropriate moment to consider again this general economic question. The Government's policy has been that on balance it is not economically desirable and I suspect that many people who advocate a gains tax I do not include the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in this opinion do not fully understand the consequences of such a tax. 
The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  showed a thorough knowledge of the subject matter of this debate, which is more than I can say of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  judging from his remarks. The honourable member for Banks showed that he had done a good deal of reasoning about tax avoidance schemes but I have enough respect for his former occupation and experience to believe that he does know better than some of the propositions he put to the House. Taxation avoidance has been going on since the beginning of time and will continue for as long as human ingenuity continues. But this is not to say that the Government is complacent in any way. Indeed, it has made a very great effort to reduce tax avoidance by amending many taxation provisions. Many amendments have been presented to this House over the years. 
Where it is believed that the law will defeat some of these schemes, that has to be tested and the loopholes to which the honourable member referred have to be examined. The 2 major areas of legal tax avoidance covered by the Bill concern dividend stripping and the use of artificial public company subsidiaries by private company interests. The 2 recent High Court cases involved the 2 avenues for exploitation and the amendments close off those avenues and will have a practical effect, as shown from the date of the public announcements made by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The amendments were proposed shortly after the High Court handed down its decisions, so there has been no delay in closing off the loopholes. The Bill is designed to take away the opportunity to devise tax avoidance schemes, in the light of the High Court's decisions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 I seek leave to move together amendments to clauses 1, 4, 5, 6 and 12. 
The Government is pursuing a vigorous campaign to sell the aircraft, which at present is known as Project N, and is examining several alternatives to find an experienced sales representative or representatives with a world-wide network of contracts. The Government believes that there is cause for confidence in selling this aircraft. Although it is probable that the aircraft can be sold in lots of one's and two's only, the interest which has been shown indicates that it should be possible to sell a considerable number of the aircraft. For that reason it is necessary to find an experienced sales organisation. I hope to be able to announce before very long that one has been found. However, on this point I would say that the Australian aircraft industry has a great opportunity to sell many of these aircraft, provided that it can maintain fairly stable cost of production. As to the second part of the question, honourable members will be aware that the Government has received many suggestions for a name for this aircraft and that competitions have been held by radio stations and newspapers for this purpose. The Government has taken advice about the sort of name that would be more acceptable in the markets to which it looks, namely, in North America and Europe, and has decided that the name of the aircraft should be Nomad. 
The Department of Supply deals with the United States space agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, on behalf of the Government. There are at present no approved programmes for the period between the end of America's ambitious Skylab project, which will be complete by the end of next year, and the first orbit of the space shuttle project, which will not be before 1978. NASA has advised that it has under consideration a number of changes brought about by its changed activity in space. It is in the process of amalgamating 2 specialist networks - that which supports manned satellites and that which supports unmanned earth satellites - and this, on a world-wide basis, will lead to a reduction in the number of tracking stations from, I believe, some 23 or 25 to about 15. The Honeysuckle Creek tracking station will be converted to a deep space station as part of the deep space network and this will lead eventually to the closing down of the Island Lagoon tracking station, which is a sort distance from Woomera. As regards Carnarvon - and these plans by NASA are tentative - it is expected that there will be a diminution of activity there after 1974. Up to that time it will be supporting the Sky Lab programme and will be taking information from the packages which have been left on the moon. It is an important station for the first orbit of manned vehicles which are put into orbit from Cape Kennedy and is expected to have a role there up to 1974 or 1975. 
I know that there has been a great deal of concern about this matter. As I have said, the position is that these are only tentative plans by NASA. I had to consider whether, in view of the fact that they are only tentative, this information ought to be disclosed. It was thought that such information as could be disclosed should be made available to the contractors and, of course, to their employees. So high level consultations and discussions are going on in respect of this matter. I will do my best to see that information, when it becomes more specific, is given to them. I would like to add that the recent announcement of a possible cooperative effort between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has not yet been taken into account in these discussions because, as yet, there is not sufficient information on it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The table below shows the required details of motor vehicles purchased by the Department of Supply on behalf of Commonwealth departments and authorities during the past 5 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1-3) The main items of clothing which comprise the uniforms of the three Australian Armed 
Services, and the fibres and proportion thereof In the material used for their manufacture are detailed in the table below. There are other items of dress uniform and working clothing but it has been assumed that information on them is not required by the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I think it is revealing that the leadership of the Australian Labor Part)' in order to attempt to show some economic understanding had to rely on the sources and the evidence that we have just had presented to us and quoted from to make a case. Most of those references by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  were not facts. Many of them were misrepresentations and they would stand no quiet, calm analysis of the position which so clearly is needed to attempt to solve any community or economic problem in this country or any other. Australia has, over the years, maintained a level of employment which is the envy of other countries. It was about 99 per cent for many years until about a year ago. Unemployment at 99,000 is too high. Since the Australian economy was hit by the international monetary crisis last year the Government has acted to steer the economy back towards a proper course. The Budget introduced yesterday is the last and in a sense the culmination of a series of steps taken specifically with employment in mind. 
I should like to recount these steps. They were, firstly, the easing of monetary conditions and a lowering of interest rates in'- 1971-72; secondly, the introduction of the non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme in late 1971 and the increasing of the grant first from $2.25m to $4.5m a month at the February Premiers Conference and, then to $6m a month at the June Premiers Conference; thirdly, the boost to public sector spending generally arising out of the February and June Premiers Conferences; and fourthly, the reduction of  2i  per cent in the personal income tax levy and the increase of $1 in the standard rate of pension, in April. All those measures, welcomed by the Opposition but not acknowledged in this debate, were measures aimed at creating employment. Unemployment does not respond quickly to stimulatory measures, especially when persistent industrial strife puts people out of work and discourages employers from recruiting. It is quite absurd, however, to read into recent experience a deep-seated unemployment problem. Where is the evidence? We have heard none today. To those who want to see, the economic truth is plainly a case of lagging demand, and as that picks up, employment opportunities will accelerate. The Budget is expressly designed to stimulate that demand. The Budget is stimulatory and this assessment has been accepted by informed commentators. 
The honourable member should read this morning's newspapers from which he quoted in a selective fashion. What is Labor's economic argument? I know its political argument. Does the Labor Opposition think that the Budget is not stimulatory enough, or does Labor think that an increase in demand will not bring unemployment down? 
The Government's policy in the interdependent fields of employment and inflation is reflected in the broad impact of the Budget, as outlined in the speech last night of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  New industrial training policies are also provided. I refer especially to the training assistance to be made available to persons made redundant and to enable persons with a history of unemployment to acquire job skills which are in demand. I draw attention to these measures because they are positive. They belie the second assertion in this Labor proposal - an unsupported assertion - which is the charge of complacency. 
Confidence is a tender plant. The Opposition does not know the meaning of confidence. It knows the meaning only of irresponsible criticism. The Budget does give an opportunity for confidence and gives expectations a considerable boost. That is for the good of Australia, the economy generally and employment in particular. Attempts to make political capital out of this situation, if successful, strike at confidence and are to be deplored. This is even more the case when the issue of the Budget's impact is ducked, as it has been today by the Opposition, and there is harping on last year's Budget. This harping uses hindsight and conveniently ignores the unpredictable events occurring soon after the last Budget. Let us stick to the facts and to the present situation. If we do that, I think every fair minded person will agree that the Budget sets the economy on a strong and upward course. The Government is determined to reduce unemployment and it believes that the Budget will build on the pick-up in activity already under way and will bring back the full employment situation we have maintained for many years. 
I refer now to the comparatively higher unemployment existing in the 3 Australian States which have Labor governments. They are South Australia, Tasmania, and particularly, I remind the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  Western Australia. The Federal Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Premier of Western Australia have attempted to blame the Federal Government for the higher unemployment in Western Australia. At present it is about 3 per cent. A big factor involved is the rundown of investment in the mineral industries, which is reflected in other industries. Replacement of industry is not taking place. 
The Leader of the Opposition in a statement released last night tried to blame the Federal Government. On the radio programme 'AM' this morning the Western Australian Premier tried to do the same thing. The Labor Premier of Western Australia is the man who, after the Premiers Conference in June, expressed himself as being satisfied and even pleased with the result that Western Australia gained from that conference. It will be recalled that among other things a special grant of 
S3. 5m was made to Western Australia in addition to its sharing in the increase of SI 12m in the general revenue grants over and above the amount that would have been provided by the existing formula increase. 
These are matters of record. The central issue is that the State Government is responsible for encouraging the expansion of investment and industry. For a long time the Liberal-Country Party in Western Australia achieved a tremendously high rate of growth. That has now ceased and in spite of several Labor Government announcements that some big investment is on the way, announcements which are made very frequently, very little has actually happened. Relatively few employment opportunities are being created in Western Australia by the State Labor Government. 
It is usual for Labor governments to tamper with the mechanism of production, fail to understand how to encourage investment and then blame everyone else for the result. The only solution that Labor sees is to spend more of the taxpayers' money for purposes for which it was demonstrated in the previous 12 years money could be provided from non-government sources. I am sure that until Labor governments face up to this fundamental situation they will have, as they have at present, a higher unemployment rate than the rest of Australia. It is not the first time that this has been demonstrated. Industry encouragement and increased investment must be part of a continuing process as achieved by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It needs encouragement and confidence of government' support, not attacks, restriction and whingeing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants Act 1971-72 to give effect to revisions to the financial assistance grants arrangements agreed between the Commonwealth and the States at the Premiers Conference held in June this year. These revisions take 3 forms. Firstly, it was agreed that an amount of $112m would be added to the financial assistance grants payable to the States in 1972-73 and be built into the formula grants so that it would escalate in future years in accordance with the formula laid down in section 7 of the present Act. The amount of $112m is to be distributed between the States in proportion to the 1971-72 formula grants as escalated in 1972-73 under the formula. This method of distribution of the grants was decided on so as to exclude the effects of the adjustments to the financial assistance grants which are accompanying the transfer of payroll tax from the Commonwealth to the States. If the effect of these adjustments were not excluded, the distribution would differ significantly from the basis settled at the June 1970 Premiers Conference. 
Secondly, it was agreed that the additional grants of $2 per capita which were being paid to New South Wales and Victoria each year would be increased to $3.50 per capita in 1972-73 and that these amounts would also be added to the formula grants so that they would escalate in future years. This change is estimated to increase the grants payable to New South Wales and Victoria in 1972-73 by approximately $7.1m and $5.4m respectively. Under the procedures of the Commonwealth Grants Commission the 3 States which receive special grants on its recommendation - namely Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania - will thereby proportionately benefit from these increased grants to the 2 most populous States. Thirdly, it was agreed that a special temporary addition of $3. 5m would be made to the financial assistance grants payable to Western Australia in 1972-73. 
The total effect of these 3 increased payment revisions will be to add SI 28m to the financial assistance grants that would be produced in 1972-73 by the arrangements embodied in the existing legislation. The addition to the grants in subsequent years will, of course, be greater as a result of building the major part of this amount into the formula grants. I ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table showing the analysis State-by-State of these additional grants. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - ' 

<graphic href="079131197208162_54_2.jpg"></graphic>

Turning to the details of the Bill, clauses 1 and 2 are of a purely machinery nature. Clause 3 authorises the first 2 of the 3 forms of additional grants agreed to at the Premiers Conference, that is, the additional grants of $112m to be divided between all the States and the additional per capita grants to New South Wales and Victoria. The clause takes the form of an amendment to section 7 of the present Act. This section authorises the formula grants, which constitute the main body of the grants payable under the Act. lt provides that the formula grants payable to each State in each year shall be calculated by taking the grant paid under the section in the previous year and increasing it in proportion to the increases in the State's population and in average wages in Australia as a whole, and by a betterment factor of 1.8 per cent. The payment of these additional grants under this section thus automatically ensures that they will be built in to the formula grants and escalated in future years. 
Clause 4 repeals section 8 of the existing Act which authorises additional grants of $2 per capita to New South Wales and Victoria. These grants are to be replaced by the additional grants of $3.50 per capita provided for in clause 3 of the Bill. Clause 5 provides for the payment of an additional temporary grant of $3.5m to Western 
Australia in 1972-73 by increasing the additional grant of S6.5m payable in that year under section 9 of the existing Act to SI Om. The additional grants authorised by this Bill represent the second major permanent revision to the general revenue assistance arrangements settled at the June 1970 Premiers Conference, the other being the transfer of payroll tax and accompanying adjustments to the financial assistance grants agreed at the June 1971 Premiers Conference. The arrangements settled in June 1970 themselves represented a very substantial improvement compared with previous arrangements. 
In addition, over the 2 years 1970-71 and 1971-72 the Commonwealth provided special revenue assistance totalling $1 15.5m, the bulk of which was paid for the purpose of assisting the States overcome budgetary difficulties caused by abnormally large increases in wage and salary awards. These excessive wage and salary award increases had the effect of pushing the States' finances out of balance. The permanent increases in the grants payable which this Bill seeks to authorise should contribute substantially towards overcoming the financial problems of the States. Taking into account all the changes in the revenue assistance arrangements that were decided at and since the June 1970 Premiers Conference, it is estimated that in 1972-73 the States will receive over $420m Commonwealth general revenue assistance more than they would have received had the arrangements which existed before 1970-71 continued unchanged. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill  be  now read a  second  time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise capital grants to the States in 1972-73, totalling $261,879,000. This comprises $248,539,000 as the grants component of the States' works and housing programme for 1972-73, and $13,340,000 as grants for expenditure on State government primary and secondary schools. The Bill also provides in the usual way for the payment of advances against the capital grant component of the works and housing programmes in the first 6 months of 1973-74 pending the passage of similar legislation in that year. The Bill provides that the payments authorised in it may be made from revenue or from loan fund, and includes appropriate borrowing authority. Honourable members will recall that the capital grants for the works and housing programme are being provided under arrangements agreed wilh the States in June 1970, whereby the Commonwealth is providing part of that programme as a grant in lieu of borrowings. 
The . grants for capital expenditure on government schools are being provided under arrangements announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in December 1971 for providing capital grants to the States totalling $20m for this purpose over the 18 months ending June 1973. The 1971-72 allocation of the capital grants for schools was authorised by. the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1972 which was passed by Parliament earlier this year. 
At its meeting in June 1972, the Loan Council approved a programme for State works and housing of $982m, comprising $248,539,000 in the form of grants from the Commonwealth and $733,461,000 in the form pf borrowings. This was an increase of $90m or 10.1 per cent on the approved programme for 1971-72. The proportion of the programme to be financed by Commonwealth grant is somewhat higher than in 1971-72, however, and the proportion to be financed by borrowings is correspondingly lower. This is because of 2 factors. First, the S6.66m capital grant for government schools in 1971-72 was amalgamated with the basic capital grants for the purpose of determining the proportion of the works and housing programme that is paid to the States as grants. This was in accordance with the undertaking given by the Prime Minister when announcing the capital grants for government schools in December 1971. Secondly, in February 1972 a permanent addition of $2m was made to the grants portion of the 1971-72 programme in recognition of the costs being met by the States in the conversion to the metric system. 
The increase in the total works and housing programme for 1972-73 - which is, of course, underwritten by the Commonwealth - is larger than corresponding increases in recent years. The programme for 1971-72 was increased substantially in February. Coming on top of that, the $90m increase for 1972-73 should provide a significant boost to State capital expenditure programmes. The Loan Council also approved, with Commonwealth support, an increase of $49m or 11.2 per cent in the overall borrowing programmes for State authorities classified as 'larger' authorities for this purpose. In 1971-72 these were semigovernment and local government authorities whose Individual borrowings for the year exceeded 8300,000. For 1972-73 the Loan Council agreed, also with Commonwealth support, to increase this figure to $400,000. There is no overall limit on borrowings of authorities whose individual borrowings amount to $400,000 or less. These increases should enable State semigovernment and local authorities to maintain a high level of capital expenditure in the year ahead. 
I turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill. Honourable members will note that besides authorising grants of $248,539,000 for works and bousing and $13,340,000 for State government schools in 1972-73 in clause 3, clause 4 of the Bill authorises the Treasurer to make advance payments in the first 6 months of 1973-74 of the capital grants for the works and housing programme only, at the same annual rate as in the current financial year. It -has been customary in the past for the Commonwealth to make monthly advances to the States pending the raising of the approved borrowings for the works and bousing programme, and the fact that a part of this programme is now made by means of capital grant should not affect this procedure. Accordingly, provision is made for such advances to the States to be made on a regular basis from the beginning of 1973-74, at the same rate as the payments authorised in this Bill. Future grants for government schools of the kind provided for in this Bill will be authorised by separate legislation, and no provision for advances in 1973-74 is required in this Bill. Clause 5 of the Bill provides that the payments may be made out of Consolidated Revenue Fund or out of Loan Fund. Clause 9 provides the necessary appropriation of these funds. 
Clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill authorise the Treasurer, within the period of 18 months to the end of December 1973, to borrow funds up to the total amount of the grants payable within that period under the Bill. This borrowing authority will be reduced by the amount of any borrowing between 1st July 1972 and the date of commencement of this Act which is used to finance the advance payments for the first half of 1972-73 as authorised under the previous legislation. These capital grants, by replacing what would otherwise be loan funds, relieve the States of interest and sinking fund charges which they would otherwise have to meet from their revenue budgets, and thus free funds for expenditure in other directions. The savings in debt charges arising from the capital grants paid in 1970-71, and 1971-72 are approximately as follows - the savings begin to accrue in the year following the year of payment, because of the delay in interest and sinking fund payments falling due: 
A similar increase in savings will, of course, accrue to the States in 1973-74 as a result of the grants proposed under this Bill to be paid to the States in 1972-73 and in earlier years. The increase in the proportion of the works and housing programme represented by the capital grants, as a result of amalgamating the $20m grant for government schools with the basic capital grant for this purpose, will increase savings on debt charges by a further amount of about $ 1.25m a year cumulative in respect of each year's programme after 1973-74. 
It is estimated that the savings on debt charges to the States in respect of the works and housing programmes for the 5 years ending 1974-75, as a result of the introduction of these capital grants, will be of the order of $200m. I am sure that honourable members will readily appreciate that they are affording very real relief to State revenue budgets. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
in reply - I thank honourable members for their contributions to this debate. The remarks made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  as I am sure they will readily agree, were in somewhat wider terms than the Bill before the House. They spent a good deal of their time talking about the principles of foreign aid in general. I do not propose to pursue that avenue although I think the opportunity will be taken by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to discuss that matter as soon as possible. I would not like to sit down without saying - and I think that the honourable member for Kingston implied or said - that the matters to which he referred do not really apply to the Asian Development Bank. I am not sure that he said it as specifically as that, but I would assert that that is certainly the case. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports, while making points which were confirmed by the honourable member for Kingston, did make the point early in his speech that there was some connection between defence expenditure and amounts spent on foreign aid. To that extent I think one is led to the point of saying that there is a connection and an Australian interest involved. It is not altogether from a purely humanitarian motive, though this is an important pillar of our foreign aid. I do not wish to pursue the matter any more as the hour is late and there is other business to discuss. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the activities and developments of the Department of Supply for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
 When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who by virtue of his office presents himself as the alternative Prime Minister of Australia, enters '.he major economic debate of the year for his Party he must be listened to carefully. I listened carefully tonight, as did all honourable gentlemen on this side of the House, for economic policies expressed by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in a cogent and lucid way and treated with some precision, for precision discloses conviction and understanding which the people of Australia are entitled to expect. How much more important is this opportunity to make a clear statement in the major economic debate of the year with only a few months remaining before the election, and in a year when aspects of the economy are of major political interest. The Leader of the Opposition has failed in this task. In his speeches during economic debates one searches for some useful and practical comment on economic matters. But those speeches really are almost wholly speeches of vague political slogans and tonight we heard a catalogue of slogans and abuse. Tonight's speech perhaps exemplified that more than any other. 
The aspects at issue in tonight's Budget debate surely are economic understanding, the correctness of economic policies and economic responsibility and competence. Last Tuesday the Leader of the Opposition tried to make a speech but was ruled out of order. However he made a few comments and tried to imply that the Budget was the last effort of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Having made that statement in that way it is only fair to point out that this is also the last chance of the Leader of the Opposition. These last few months are his last stand before the Hawke forces and left wingers engulf him. I see the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  nodding to me from the front bench of the Labor Party. I thought that the Leader of the Opposition looked a little agitated but we must remember Labor's traditional sentence for election failure. The Leader of the Opposition made as one of his major points the statement that the Budget had no national goals and that was when he really launched himself into the catalogue of slogans, about which I have spoken. This sort of attack on the Budget confuses words and deeds. At the one extreme there is a hankering after indicative planning; at the other, slogans are what is sought. The deficiencies of indicative planning were spelt out by the Treasurer in his recent address. Slogans such as 'the New frontier' or 'the Great Society' may sound fine and imaginative when coined but they mean nothing and eventually become the focus of derision. 
The Budget does have goals. However, these are not readily summed up in a few glossy sentences, both because of the intrinsic complexity of the directions in which any economy and society moves and because, anyway, the Government cannot be the final arbiter on all these matters. The Australian community simply does nol want its entire life to be shaped by the Government, even those in the community who might agree with the desired nature of the shaping. Let me very quickly mention the goals of the Budget. They include economic growth, population growth including immigration, defence, development of industry, Aboriginal advancement, development of education, improvement of health facilities and equity in the tax system including estate duty and personal income tax. These are just the headings, and there are many other vital community matters towards which this Budget is directed. 
The fact that these are not part of an overall plan which lays down the law about all facets of economic and community life reflects the Government's understanding of the emptiness of relying on words rather than on deeds. As the Treasurer pointed out, for the Leader of the Opposition to talk about taxation levels and make criticisms is laughable. The Leader of the Opposition has long since committed himself to greatly increased Commonwealth expenditures in a wide variety of directions, but he studiously avoids snowing us the other side of the coin, namely, the increases in taxation which such policies would make necessary unless, of course, he would be prepared to see the Commonwealth gain control of the necessary resources by permitting a disastrous rate of inflation. 
Let me turn to the two most important aspects of this Budget, which are interdependent, namely, unemployment and inflation. The record of this Government in maintaining for many years an employment level of 99 per cent, and now about 98 per cent, is envied by all countries. Yet the Government recognises that the present rate is unacceptable and has taken a number of measures. It has eased monetary conditions, granted non-metropolitan unemployment relief, boosted State works and housing programmes and reduced income tax and increased pensions, both in April and in this Budget. The problem is that excessive wage demands are forcing every employer in this country to find ways of continuing on the minimum possible number of employees. Recently, wage increases were running at the rate of 9 per cent per annum and prices at 7 per cent - a clear indication of the excessive wage levels. This consequent rate of inflation is unacceptably high and Government measures have been implemented over the last 18 months to decrease it, with present signs of some success. 
Attempts to make political capital out of the situation, if successful, strike at the very confidence of the community and are to be deplored. The impact of this Budget will improve, and has already improved, that confidence. Here again tonight - and it has done so on every Budget I can remember - the Opposition is endeavouring to achieve a roar of criticism, using whatever argument it thinks might have some appeal to the public. The speech tonight of the Leader of the Opposition was made in the hope that it will assist the Labor Opposition's election prospects. It is not intended to help employment or the economy. Indeed, those who have spent a little time in this place know that the Labor Party has an electoral investment in unemployment. What confidence can people have in a party which claims that it can govern the country better than the present Government but which cannot act in the public interest during industrial disputes? Only the most spurious comments were made by the Leader of the Opposition during the recent fuel dispute. No suggestion for a real solution was made. The Labor Party has no control or leadership in the fields of employment and inflation. In practice, it supports every extravagance of the extreme element of the trade union movement. For example, it supports demands for excessive wage rises when we all know that average wage rises are outstripping price rises. We hear no criticism by the Labor Party of excessive wage rises even though these are disadvantaging those unionists and others who are receiving less than the average wage. We hear no protest against irresponsibility. 
Another extravagance is the claim for the 35-hour week. This claim is supported by the Labor Opposition, and yet clearly this is not the time for it. How can a party claiming to be able to undertake responsibility for the economy of this country, and claiming the objective of raising standards of living in the poorer sections, put forward such a proposal? At the very time when there are widespread demands and needs for resources to meet Australia's problems in education, health, social services and national development, the Labor Party supports a policy of working fewer hours. The result of these policies which Labor supports - the 35-hour week and excessive wage rises - has been * to diminish work opportunities. Every employer in this country in the last 18 months has asked himself how he can operate on the smallest number of employees possible in the face of excessively rising wage costs. The policy initiated by the extremists in the trade unions and. supported by the Labor Opposition has put people out of work. 
Who really speaks for the Labor Party in economic matters? The speech of the Leader of the Opposition this evening was hardly one on precise economic matters. It must be pointed out that clear economic objectives for the future of Australia are not presented by the Leader of the Opposition at all but by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  What they propose is clear Australian Labor Party socialism in the old style. The honourable member for Lalor never tires of making clear his extreme socialist views and his ideas of revolutionary democracy. It was he who insisted on having incorporated in Hansard last December the extract from the Labor Party's Platform, Constitution and Rules' on economic planning, and he went on in the course of his remarks to make it clear that he supported it, and more. In case there are people encouraged to believe that the leaders of the Labor Party are all good, sensible chaps let me read clause 3. lt states: 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopoly. 
That should be enough to show that Labor today is the complete socialist party - and, some believe, more than it ever was. Honourable members will find the speech of the honourable member for Lalor to which I have referred a clear statement of socialist intent, far more honest and lucid than the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition but exposing the same doctrinaire, dangerous approach to the Australian economy which close observers of the Labor' Party have long known to be the case. 
The view of the honourable member for Lalor of socialism envisages worker control - not participation - and he has said that the democratic process leading to this begins in the streets, on the farms and in the factories'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I warn the honourable member for Blaxland to cease interjecting. 
The Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee since 1956 has monitored fall-out through some 26 stations in Australia and one in Papua New Guinea. That was carried on through the period when, it will be recalled, in 1961 and 1962 the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and in 1962 the United States of America exploded a large number of nuclear devices which caused a far greater fall-out throughout the world than has happened since. Since 1965 in Australia the fall-out containing long-lived radio isotopes, strontium 90 and caesium 137 has fallen markedly year by year. Today only 2 countries are exploding nuclear devices in the atmosphere and they are China and France. France has had a series of explosions in the South Pacific every year except 1969 since 1966 and we have collected the results of those. The Committee reports to me and to the National Radiation Advisory Committee and 3 of its reports have been tabled in this House since 1971. Measurements taken have shown extremely low levels of radioactivity in those isotopes. The levels as a result of the 3 explosions which have taken place in 1972 - on 26th June, 1st July and, it is believed, 28th July - including the third explosion the effects of which reached Australia a few days ago, have been of the order of onefiftieth to one-hundredth of the levels of last year. So far there has been no evidence of any short-lived radio isotopes in milk in Australia as a result of the 1972 tests. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is the first of 3 Bills needed to implement the proposal made in the Budget Speech to increase the rate of stamp duty payable on the sale and purchase of marketable securities. Stamp duty was introduced into the Australian Capital Territory on 1st July 1969 both to stop the Territory from being used as a haven from State duties and to ensure that Territory residents bore certain charges comparable with those borne by residents of the States. 
On transactions in marketable securities - that is, in company shares or debentures or in rights to take up shares or debentures - A.C.T. duty is at present levied at the rate in force in the States when the A.C.T. duty was introduced The States increased their rates by one-half from last January. This Bill, with the 2 associated Bills I shall introduce shortly, will bring the A.C.T. rates up to the new State rates. 
Where securities listed on a stock exchange are sold for full value through a stockbroker, duty - either A.C.T. or State - is collected from seller and buyer under the 'broker return' system. Where the order to sell the securities is placed with a broker in the Territory, A.C.T. duty payable by the selling broker is now imposed at the rate of 20c for each $100 or part thereof, if the sale price is $100 or more. For transactions of less than $100 in value the rate of duty is 5c for each $25 or part thereof. For sales of securities made on or after 1st November 1972 it is proposed by this Bill to raise the rate to 30c per $100 or part thereof, where the sale price is $100 or more. For smaller transactions the proposed rate is 7c for each $25 or part thereof. 
An explanatory memorandum relating to this and the associated measures is being circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is associated with the Australian Capital Territory Tax (Sales of Marketable Securities) Bill 1972 that has just been introduced. It proposes an increase - of the same order as proposed in the earlier Bill - in the rates at which stamp duty is imposed under the 'broker return' system on the purchase side of transactions in marketable securities. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is the third of the stamp duty measures necessary to bring the rate of Australian Capital Territory stamp duty on transactions in marketable securities into line with the rates in force in the States. Under ACT legislation, duty on transfers in unlisted shares, and on other transfers outside the 'broker return' system, is payable by the person to whom the securities are transferred. The present rate of duty is 5c for each $12.50 or part thereof of 'he value of the securities transferred. This Bill proposes to increase the rate to 15c for each $25 or fractional part of $25 of the value of the securities. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
This Bill will give effect to the estate duty proposals announced in the Budget Speech. At present an estate is exempt from duty if its value is $20,000 or less and it passes to the spouse, children or grandchildren of the deceased. The corresponding amount where no part passes to these close relatives is $10,000. For primary producer estates the outright exemption is $24,000 for estates passing to close relatives and $12,000 where no part so passes. In broad terms, a primary producer estate is one that consists principally of farm assets, including land, and which results from the death of a person domiciled in Australia whose income was, in the 5 years before death, principally derived from a business of primary production. 
This Bill proposes to double the exemption limits. The general exemptions will thus become $40,000 for an estate passing wholly to close relatives and $20,000 for an estate passing wholly to other persons. The exemptions for primary producer estates will become $48,000 and $24,000. The exemptions will continue to diminish at the existing rate of $2 for every $8 by which the value of an estate exceeds the outright exemption level. This means they will cut out for estates generally at $200,000, where the whole of the estate passes to close relatives, and at $100,000 where no part so passes. For primary producer estates the cut-out points will be $240,000 and $120,000 respectively. 
As a result of the proposals in this Bill, about one-half of the estates that would have become liable for duty under the present law will be wholly exempt. Most estates that remain dutiable will benefit from some reduction in the amount of duty payable. The new exemptions will apply to estates of persons who died or die after 15th August 1972. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
(11.57)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to the Budget proposal to raise the gift duty exemption from $4,000 to $10,000. The present exemption limit of $4,000 was fixed in 1947 and applies to the value of all gifts made by the same donor within a period of 3 years. Where the aggregate value of all gifts made in a 3 year period commencing 18 months before and ending 18 months after the date of a particular gift is within the exemption limit, the gift is exempt from duty. 
Under the proposals in the Bill, gift duty will not be payable on a gift made on or after 1 6th August 1972 unless its value is greater than $10,000 or its value, together with the value of all other gifts made in the aggregation period, is greater than that amount. The Bill also contains shading-in provisions - along the lines of those in the present law - to ensure that full duty is not payable where the value of gifts made by a person within the aggregation period is only marginally above the exemption level. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That  the  Bil) be now read a second time. 
This Bill is complementary to the Gift Duty Bill that has just been introduced. At present no gift duty return needs to be furnished unless gifts amounting to $3,000 - three-fourths of the existing exemption of $4,000 - are made in a relevant period. This Bill will raise the amount of gifts requiring a return to $7,500 - that is, three-fourths of the new exemption of $10,000. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1972-73 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 30 August (vide page 737), on motion by  Mr Snedden:  Thoi the  Bill  be  now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr Whitlam  had moved by way of amendment: 
That all words after 'That* be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: "The House condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capital cities and regional centres'. 
I would like to thank honourable members for their contributions in this cognate debate on these 2 income tax Bills. 1 will see, even if the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  does not like this procedure, that those suggestions that have been made on specific matters receive a full reply in writing. I would like to make some remarks in reply on behalf of the Treasurer because this legislation is of such importance and is a fundamental part of this Government's Budget proposals. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  emphasised in the Budget Speech that in the Government's view personal income tax was too high as it existed last year, and that the average family man in particular was being hit too hard. The Bills that are being considered include a number of provisions designed to remedy this situation, which has arisen largely as the result of the interaction of rising monetary incomes and the progressive nature of personal income tax rates. 
The most important of these provisions is the new personal income tax scale which will reduce the tax payable by individuals by an average, as has been said, of 10 per cent. Although the average reduction is 10 par cent, taxpayers on low incomes will have their tax reduced by a greater percentage while those on high incomes will have their tax reduced by a lesser percentage. For example, on a taxable income of $2,000 the reduction will be over 14 per cent. The new rate scale which is already being reflected in reduced tax instalment deductions in respect of those on salaries and wages will reduce income tax payments by $480m in a full year. Other measures to be introduced by the Bill will have the effect of increasing concessional deductions for the maintenance of dependents and authorising a deduction for the expenses of a taxpayer in obtaining educational qualifications connected with income producing activities in cases where expenses are not deductible in present concessional deductions under the existing law. 
The amendments to the dependants' allowances will mean that the maximum deductions available under the. law for the maintenance of a spouse, parent, parentinlaw, housekeeper or daughter-housekeeper will each be advanced from $312 to $364. Similarly, deductions available for the maintenance of a student, an invalid relative and for one child under 16 years of age will each move from $208 to $260. A special concessional deduction for self education will apply in respect of fees, books and equipment associated with a course of education a taxpayer undertakes for the purpose of acquiring qualifications for his employment or career. This new concession will not be subject to any age qualification and will be available whether a course of education is attended on a full time or part time basis or is carried out by correspondence. The maximum deduction will be $400, as will the other concessional deduction. Another important feature of the Bills is the provision for increasing the minimum taxable income of individuals from $417 to $1,041. This change will free some 600,000 taxpayers from tax liability and will reduce personal income tax payments by S14m in the current year and Si 8m in a full year. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who said that this was an important debate but who is not now in the House, made a number of critical remarks which ought to be taken up. Those of us who heard his speech listened to him struggling to find some derogatory remarks to make.  His  speech disclosed that that was a little difficult to do because of the reasons I have mentioned which included the increasing of the exemption from tax level which so helps the lower income group and the overall reduction in income tax that is payable at all levels, particularly the lower levels. But he did say that the Bills did not embrace Labor's own principles - without telling us quite what they were - and said somewhat broadly that Labor would do much to 'improve on the Bills'. 
In the course of his remarks - and he had quite some time - he made a number of generalised statements and quotations. He told us at one time that he regarded himself as a bit of an expert in these matters. But he did not really get down to tintacks. I suggest that anyone who reads his speech will see that his remarks do not bear any analysis by those who are in search of practical solutions. I suggest that that may be because he did not wish to spend too much time in preparation of his speech and that his real aim was denigration. 
He spent a good deal of his speech criticising the Government and the Government Parties in a most general way. In the last minute of his speech he mentioned 3 matters of some substance, namely, income splitting, taxation deductions for primary producers and his support for a capital gains tax. But then he had to say quickly: I have not any more time', implying that some unnecessary restriction was imposed on him. I make it clear that if he had wished to be positive and analytical about taxation laws he could have commenced on those concepts and devoted the time available to him to dealing with them. I make this observation because this is the second occasion on which I have heard the honourable member take that attitude. If he wished it, he could make a statement in substance on specific matters. He prefers to fritter away the time available to him on general abuse which does not do any good and which, I can assure him, does not affect the Government. 
The honourable member did make the point in the course of his remarks that he had considerable confidence in the advisers to the Government. He mentioned, I think, the abilities of Taxation Office officials. The Government and I would agree with that comment. But the honourable member seemed to assume in the course of his remarks that the Government takes no notice of their advice. Of course, this is absolute nonsense. What he would find - and I repeat that he is qualified by his previous experience to understand these matters in some depth - would be, if he sought a practical solution, that the problems are more difficult than he would have us believe and that to find alternatives which are truly equitable is a very large job and one which the Government has decided to refer to a committee of public inquiry to review, not merely in relation to income tax matters but all taxation matters. The committee will consider these matters in context. The committee will consider any suggestion that anyone wishes to make as to how the law can be improved but also will study the consequences of making any specific change and will review these matters in the broad and not just take out one small element which may be something that is very desirable and try to build a whole case on it. 
The honourable member did put to me specific questions, and, as I said earlier, I will provide written answers in detail on those matters raised directly in connection with the Bills before the House. I wish to make one or two remarks on one specific point. The honourable member referred in particular to the new concession to provide a deduction for education expenses incurred by a person on his own behalf, as referred to in the Budget Speech delivered by the Treasurer. The honourable member tried to make a comparison between the existing concessional deductions for education of dependants and self education expenses. Self education expenses are expected to be claimed for the most part by working adults and the inclusion of those types of expenses recognises the different class of student involved. It must be remembered that the proposed deduction for self education expenses is more liberal in several respects than the present deduction for education expenses. For example, there is no age limit and part time studies are included for self education purposes whereas the present deduction for education expenses for dependants carries an age limit of 25 years and is available for full time education only. Therefore, I suggest that direct comparison is not entirely valid. 
I thank the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  both for his support of these measures and for the specific suggestions which he made. I will see, as I said, that he receives a reply to them. I also thank the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  for his remarks which, perhaps one could say, in the main were meant to be constructive but perhaps not. In any case I assure him that the matters to which he referred did not escape the Government's attention. It has to be recalled that the Government receives thousands of suggestions each year as to what it should incorporate into the Budget measures, and a lot of them relate to income tax. Indeed, volumes of these suggestions are prepared. I only wish that it were possible for a larger number of people to see the quantity, the quality and the category of these suggestions because only by seeing them all together can one get the picture of just what is asked for and can one clearly see that it is not possible to grant all the requests. 
The honourable member for Grayndler referred to the costs of people travelling to and from their work being made a tax deduction. I make the point that that is a matter which has received Government attention each year for a long time. It is not true for him to say that company directors receive a deduction for the use of company motor vehicles in which they travel to and fro. That has been made perfectly clear in this year's income tax returns. A company director receiving a private benefit to himself from the use of assets of the company which employs him must include that in his taxation return as income. This requirement applies to a wider scope than merely motor vehicles. The honourable member for Grayndler made particular reference to handicapped people. These are certainly matters on which I will obtain a specific answer for him. 
In concluding this debate on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  I draw out 3 points which have been commented upon and which have relevance to income tax measures. First is the implication, indeed I believe the statement, of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and certainly of other Labor spokesmen that under a Labor administration there would be a reduction in income tax. How can one really believe this? Here is a Party which in an election year goes around Australia agreeing, for obvious reasons, to practically every request for funds in practically every area. Who can doubt that such an administration, even to honour a fraction of those promises, would have to increase greatly the receipts of revenue and the rate of taxation? Indeed, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who is at the table was, I think, straightforward enough to say in a recent television interview that at somewhere above the level - I do not want to misquote him and I think I am being accurate- of income of $4,500 to $5,000 a year he would expect income earners to have to pay more income tax in order to finance the sort of programmes which he envisaged the Labor Party would want to introduce. I ask honourable members: Is not it only a matter of common sense that this would be the result of a Labor administration because of the many promises the Labor Party has made in so many fields around the country? The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has not contradicted my interpretation of what he said and I think that it is a fair representation of his statement. That is the first point I wish to make. 
The second point, upon which I have touched already, is the Government's appointment of members of a taxation inquiry to investigate the whole field of Commonwealth taxes to try to see whether there are ways of improving the equity, the administration and the collection of those taxes in order to finance the justifiable needs of Commonwealth expenditure .and demands by the people of Australia. That is a wide ranging inquiry and I hope that no-one imagines that it will be an easy one. It will take time, of course. Yet the honourable member for Adelaide invites the Government, before this inquiry is made or before evidence is collected and sifted, to make changes. The honourable member does not make any specific suggestions but says only that the exemption level is too low and the deduction should be increased. 
One can make a plea for a reduction of tax or for a concession to be increased and build up a very convincing case. I have seen this done many times - all honourable members have seen it. One hears cases made and suggestions put to show how desirable a certain course is, and when that matter is considered in isolation it seems that the suggestion should be followed. The honourable member for Grayndler made such a suggestion this afternoon. But in framing a budget the Government has to look at the situation as a whole. It must consider the total amount to be expended and the total amount that will be raised from revenue in order to keep the economy on an even keel. Within each category it has to consider how it will settle the priorities among the demands for finance. A budget is necessarily a compromise between competing types of expenditure, a compromise between the amount of tax reduction that a government would like to see and the amount of expenditure that it feels it must make. One is quite easily able to pick out a few items from the Budget and to make a moving speech for 20 minutes or so about a particular matter that has been omitted or that should be changed. 
In preparing its Budget for 1972-73 the Government considered many thousands of proposals. Many of the proposals were for new or extended taxation concessions. These were all considered when the Budget was being prepared. In the event the Government decided that, with relatively minor exceptions, it should concentrate the taxation concessions in the field of personal income tax. It did this because it viewed with concern the considerable increase in the relative burden of personal income tax in recent years and the effect that this had had on our economy and society. In particular the single income family, the typical suburban family, had been hard hit. The proposals announced in the Budget Speech to provide for the allowance of deductions for self-education expenses, the increase in the minimum taxable income and in dependants allowances, and the reduction in the rates of personal income tax, which will average 10 per cent per annum, will provide substantial reductions in the total income tax payable by all persons, but especially those with families. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I refer to clause 1 of the Bill which reads: 1.- (1.) This Act may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 4) 1972. (2.) The Income Tax Assessment Act 1936- 1971,* as amended by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1972. by the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 2) 1972 and by the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 3) 1972, is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. (3.) Section 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 3) 1972 is amended by omitting subsection (4.). (4.) The Principal Act, as amended by, this Act, may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1972. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: - "1. - (1.) This Act may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 5) 1972. "(2.) The Income Tax Assessment Act 1936- 1971,* as amended by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1972, by the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 2) 1972, by the Income Tax Assessment Act(No. 3) 1972 and by the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 4) 1972, is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. "(3.) Section 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 4) 1972 is amended by omitting subsection (4.). "(4.) The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1972.". 
This clause formally declares the short title and citation of the amending Act, and of the principal Act as amended. Another income tax measure has been enacted as the Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 4) 1972 and the proposed amendment to the Bill now before the House is necessary to catch up with that event. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
 I must thank the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  for the implication contained in his last remarks in which he advised the Government what it ought to do in these matters. Clearly these are matters which come up from Budget to Budget and I think we can take it that he has satisfied himself that the Government will be returned at the coming elections. Therefore he is giving us some advice - no doubt he thinks this is good advice - about what we ought to do in the future. 
As has been said in passing by both honourable members who have spoken during this debate, this is a relatively simple Bill. The works of art that at present are taxable are those produced overseas by other than Australian or New Zealand artists and imported by private collectors or commercial organisations. Imported works of art are largely exempt from customs duty. The proposed sales tax exemption will apply to those works which are exempt from customs duty. Works of art that will remain taxable are imported paintings, drawings and pastels by other than Australian or New Zealand artists which are valued at $50 or less. I again formally advise the House that those specific matters which have been raised in this debate by the 2 Opposition members will be considered and I will provide written, detailed answers in regard to the specific points. 
During his remarks the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  queried why sales tax over a wider field was not reduced. I do not wish to go into all these matters because the scope of the Bill is narrow, but I do point out that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  made it clear in his second reading speech on this Bill that the Government, having taken all these matters into consideration, came to this conclusion. Again, without traversing the whole question, I mention that the honourable member asked why, if sales tax could be reduced on works of art, it could not be reduced on school books. I will obtain some comment on that for the honourable member. There is substantive reasoning behind the Government's decision on that category. This may not be the reasoning that the. honourable member would accept - perhaps he would - but in any case I will see that he gets the reason. 
I conclude my comments on the honourable member's remarks by emphasising that the reason why the Government has not reduced sales tax, apart from the particular reason that the Treasurer gave - namely whether in fact that reduction would in reality be passed on to the consumers - nevertheless the Government decided to concentrate on reducing the level of income tax in the community at a cost to revenue of $480m. As i said earlier, there is an average reduction of 10 per cent rising to 14 per cent in relation to the lower income groups, including concessions for dependants. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  commenced his speech by telling us that he would not make any political comment. He then told us that the Labor Party, when last in power in 1949, was in the process of dismantling sales tax. My colleague the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  could not resist interjecting: 'You must be joking'. I do not think that any more comment than that need be made in reply. The honourable member for Grayndler pointed out an item which attracted sales tax. For the sake of the record let me indicate that sales tax covers a wide variety of materials - it affects tens of thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands of items. The sales tax list is a very complicated one and there are very real difficulties in defining the catetories. It is always possible for anyone to point to an item on a particular page, to compare it with one many pages later and to point out a seeming anomaly or inconsistency. This can be done fairly easily. I do not say that in the sense that any criticism of a sales tax item ought not to be considered and taken seriously. I will have examined the item to which the honourable member specifically referred and give him a reply. 
I conclude by saying that many hundreds and thousands of suggestions in regard to sales tax are received each year. They are recorded and examined at the time the Budget is formulated. I say to the honourable member that the Government will be happy, in the preparation of the 1973-74 Budget, to give his suggestions and others full consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 I propose to move amendments to clauses 1 , 3 and 4 which read: 
(1.) This Act may be cited as the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1972. (2.) The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1970, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1972. 
The First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1970 is amended by adding to item 68 the following subitem: 

<graphic href="080131197209125_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

The First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1970 is amended by omitting item 69c. 
I move: 
Omit clause 1, insert the following clause: 
(1.) This Act may be cited as the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act (No. 2) 1972. (2.) The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1970* as amended by the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1972, is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. (3.) Section 1 of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1972 is amended by omitting sub-section (3.). (4.) The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1972.'. 
In clause 3, omit 'Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1970', insert 'Principal Act'. 
In clause 4, omit 'Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1970', insert 'Principal Act'. 
In each case the amendment is of the drafting kind and does not change the intended effect of the Bill. Another sales tax measure has been enacted as the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1972 and the proposed amendments to the Bill now before the Committee are necessary to catch up with that event. Clause 1 formally declares the short title and citation of the amending Act, and of the principal Act as amended. The amendments to clauses 3 and 4 relate only to the principal Act being amended. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
I have received a number of representations on this matter from the honourable member and from  Senator Young  and  Senator Jessop  amongst others. My Department, in conjunction with other departments, has carried out a very full inquiry as to what areas in South Australia ought to be retained as prohibited areas. So I am able to announce that quite recently I approved on behalf of the Government - it will be gazetted tomorrow - a reduction in the prohibited areas in South Australia, including approximately 90 per cent of what is known as the Maralinga prohibited area and just less than half of the Woomera area. This is a reduction of the prohibited areas by about 50,000 square miles. The 2 townships of Coober Pedy and Andamooka, which contain the greatest number of the miners to whom the honourable member referred, have been excluded from the prohibited area. The particular area from which officers of the Department, in particular of the Weapons Research Establishment, had to exclude miners recently - the area known as Mount Penryn - will have to remain within the prohibited area because of the defence needs and for safety reasons. In fact this area lies in one of the impact zones. With the establishment of a smaller area, a more stringent permits procedure is to be introduced, for defence reasons, for security and for safety, to provide for the proper use of the reduced area. Details of that will be made known in the next few days. 
I should add that the Maralinga village, which will be outside the new reduced area, is still on lease. That village is the subject of negotiations between the Prime Minister and the Premier of South Australia. But 2 of the so-called cemeteries or hot areas - the areas in which nuclear explosions took place many years ago, which were very well covered up and buried in concrete by the British Government and in which radio activity has very much decreased year by year - will be still within the 10 per cent remaining of the Maralinga prohibited area. Another small section is near the Maralinga village. So it will be easy for the South Australian authorities to supervise it when administration of the village is determined. 
I do not agree that what was announced by me was, to use the honourable members phrase, a most important matter. In fact, what has been happening in recent months - I think that this has been made rather clear - is that a series of steps, I believe logical and consistent steps, have been taken by the Government in order to review the present situation and to encourage the aircraft industry to proceed in a certain way. Part of this is to determine what the industry's future work load should be. Interdependent with that is the decision on the form and scope of the rationalisation that should take place among the 3 elements of the industry. What 1 announced recently was that I had been given on behalf of the Government some additional authority to carry on the negotiations. The Government has before it some proposals on work load, which it is examining. Until that has been determined it will not be possible for it to enter into any detailed discussions, although I know that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will be aware of several rationalisation examinations that have taken place. These provide a number of elements in the total and complicated question of what should be done with the industry. But I emphasise that the main effort by the Government in this whole area has been made clear. 
As to the question of a debate, I can assure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that I have no desire whatever to avoid discussion of the matter. I believe that the Government has taken a number of positive steps. They are steps that 1 think will be to the benefit of the industry. They will be of real benefit and not merely loose talk about what may be idealistically desirable. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would know, the Parliament has a tremendous amount of business before it to carry out before the election. Every minute and every hour in this place is needed for that programme. I am sure that every fair minded honourable member will be aware of that. However, I will have a discussion with the Leader of the House to see whether there is anything meaning ful that could be announced by me and whether he can provide some time for a debate. But I think that I would have to see firstly whether anything could be usefully added to what has been said as at now to inform the Parliament, on which a debate could be based. I might say that many things are going on in relation to this whole question. It may well be that in the not too distant future there will be something substantive to say. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings by the Commonwealth not exceeding the equivalent of $US25m (SA21m) to assist Qantas Airways Ltd in financing the purchase of a sixth Boeing 747 jet aircraft, spare parts and related equipment at an estimated cost of approximately $US29m (SA24m). The aircraft is due to be delivered in March 1974. The Commonwealth has already arranged loans totalling $US139m ($A116m) to assist Qantas in financing the purchase of its first 5 Boeing 747 aircraft. These loans were approved by the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited Act 1968, the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1971 and the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited Act (No. 2) 1971. The borrowings arranged under the authority of the last Act were applied to the financing of the fifth aircraft. At the time the Bill for that Act was introduced, the House was informed that Qantas had entered into a contract with the Boeing company for the purchase of a sixth Boeing 747 aircraft with an option to cancel delivery at any time on or before 1st July 1972. The date of the option was subsequently extended by the Boeing company and Qantas is now making arrangements to confirm delivery of the aircraft. 
Generally, when we have introduced legislation for borrowings to assist in the purchase of new aircraft by Qantas, the loan agreements have already been signed, but have usually been conditional on appropriate legislative authority being given later. On this occasion, borrowing arrangements for the purchase of the aircraft have not been finalised at this stage as approval for Qantas to proceed with the purchase has only recently been given. These borrowings on behalf of Qantas are s;ecialised financing arrangements related to the particular requirements of the airline for the purchase of aircraft overseas and are in a different category from general purpose borrowings by the Commonwealth overseas. A central element in the financing arrangements is the participation in them by the ExportImport Bank of the United States, which specialises in providing credit on terms tailored to assist in financing the purchase of such items of capital equipment as Boeing 747 aircraft. I would mention that it is expected that the overall result of all the Commonwealth's overseas debt operations, including aircraft borrowings, this financial year will be a substantial net reduction in overseas indebtedness. 
As a step towards making arrangements for the financing of the sixth aircraft, an application has been lodged with the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a loan of $US11.3m, which is slightly less than one-half of the proposed total borrowings. The current lending terms of the Bank for aircraft finance are interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum with repayments over the last 5 years of a 10 year period which commences on the delivery date of the aircraft. The remainder of the proposed borrowings will be sought from other sources at an interest rate comparable to that carried by the ExportImport Bank loan. These terms are acceptable to Qantas. Other arrangements for the loans will be similar to those approved by Parliament for previous loans for Qantas and Trans-Australia Airlines in recent years. In particular, the Commonwealth will be the borrower in the first place, and the proceeds will be made available to Qantas on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause 7 of the BUI These terms and conditions will be identical with those under which the Commonwealth itself borrows the money. The airline will be required to meet al) charges under the loan agreements. Consequently, the Commonwealth will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. The detailed terms and conditions of each of the loans to be arranged will be subject to approval by the Australian Loan Council. Borrowings under previous similar legislation now total the equivalent of $A316m. Of this amount, approximately $A166m has been repaid by Qantas. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
The honourable member has been careful not to make any statement about the source of the allegations and I think that that in itself is significant. I have no knowledge of the allegations he has made and I will certainly look into the matter. Referring to those areas in the Maralinga region which I mentioned in an answer to a question yesterday, might I say that the British Government spent a very large sum of money making areas as safe as possible by pouring great quantities of concrete to fill in areas that had been dug deep, and in restoring the surface area as much as possible. All of this took place nearly 20 years ago. The radioactive material present in those areas has in the main a half life of some 15 or 20 years, I think, from memory and so its effect, deep and buried and covered as it is, has been very much diminished in that time. However, I will make inquiries in relation to the particular charge which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has made. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thank you and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for finding that formula to enable me to speak now. During question time today the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked me a question which implied that radioactive wastes from the United Kingdom had been flown to Australia and buried at Maralinga in South Australia. Because of the nature of the allegation implicit in his question, I had urgent inquiries made of the Department of Supply. As a result, I have been informed as follows: There is no known foundation for the allegation. All radioactive waste buried at 3 places in Australia - Monte Bello Islands, Emu and Maralinga - resulted from experiments conducted at those places. Relatively small areas at those places were used exclusively for the disposal of waste from experiments in Australia. The places were never intended for the burial of radioactive waste from Britain. No request by the British to bury in Australia waste from their nuclear establishments has been made and certainly no such permission has ever been given. We have monitored the areas, we know what is there and we have discovered nothing unexpected in our monitoring either in nature or quantity. Of course we have never produced nuclear weapons or bombs in Australia. So it is clear that the original radioactive material required for the range of experiments had to be brought from Britain. It is possible that in some cases it arrived by air in lead lined boxes. But what is buried at Maralinga and the other places is purely the radioactive waste from the experiments conducted with this original material. 
As I indicated this morning, all the radioactive material buried in the Maralinga area is covered by thick layers of concrete and is well below the surface where the risk from casual entry is insignificant. Two of these sites remain in the new Woomera prohibited areas, as gazetted today, and the third, close to the Maralinga airstrip, is adequately fenced so that it can be properly controlled should Maralinga itself ever be used as a centre of population or as a tourist attraction. These sites are not considered dangerous for short term visits. 
I gave a copy of these remarks to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition after dinner. 1 take this opportunity to advise the House as the information I have just given was not available by the end of the question time today. It might be of interest to honourable members to know - this information was sought of me quite recently by another honourable member - that there were 2 explosions at Emu Field in 1953, and 7 at Maralinga in 1956 and 1957. I think I indicated at question time today, or implied, that it was earlier than that. One of those explosions occurred on 4th October 1956 and, according to the file, no fewer than 23 members of the Parliament were present, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and 7 members of his Party. I do not by these remarks wish to provoke the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, though I seem to have been able to do so on more than one occasion quite recently. However, he is at the table now and I would be most interested to hear the basis of the allegations and the circumstances which he sees. 
This matter has been looked at on a number of occasions. As the honourable member suggests - I know it is a matter in which he is particularly interested - the road was originally constructed for the Woomera range and is therefore not capable of taking continuous heavy traffic. There are, of course, by the nature of activities at Woomera, considerations of safety and security involved. However, in view of the amendments to which the honourable member referred I will certainly have the matter looked at again more closely. 
in reply - In replying on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  might I say that the points made by honourable members in their speeches will certainly be noted. In summing up I would like to refer to the provisions of the Bill since the debate, particularly the contributions by the last few speakers, has ranged somewhat widely. The first Bill, the States Grants Bill (No. 2), amends the States Grants Act 1971-72 to revise the financial assistance grants arrangements agreed between the Commonwealth and the States at the Premiers Conference held 3 months ago. Firstly, it was agreed that an additional $112m would be paid to the States in their grants for the current year; and built into the formula grants to escalate in future years as part of the for mula laid down and provided in the present Act. The SI 12m is to be distributed between the States in proportion to the 1971-72 formula grants as escalated in 1972-73 under the formula, and this method was decided on to exclude the effects of the adjustments to the financial assistance grants which are accompanying the transfer of payroll tax to the States. 
Secondly, the additional grants of $2 per head paid to New South Wales and Victoria annually are increased to $3.50 per head this year, and these amounts also are added to the formula to escalate in future years. This increases the grants to New South Wales and Victoria this year by approximately $ 12.5m. Under the procedures of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the 3 States which receive special grants, on its recommendation - namely Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania - will benefit proportionately from these increased grants. Thirdly, it was agreed that a special temporary addition of $3.5m would be made to the financial assistance grants payable to Western Australia in 1972-73. Perhaps the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  would care to reflect on that in the light of the rather rash remarks he made a little while ago. The total cost will be to add $128m to the financial assistance grants that would be produced in 1972-73 by the arrangements in the existing legislation. The addition to the grants in subsequent years will, of course, be greater as a result of building the major part of this amount into the formula grants. Taking into account all' the changes in the revenue assistance arrangements that were decided at and since the 1970 Premiers Conference, it is estimated that in the current year the States will receive in Commonwealth general revenue assistance over $420m more than they would have received had the arrangement which existed before 1970-71 continued unchanged. The second Bill - we are debating both Bills together - is the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 3) 1972. Its main purpose is to authorise capital grants to the States in this current year totalling over $261m. It is made up of $248m as the grants component of the States works and housing programme for the current year and $13m as 'grants for expenditure on State government primary and secondary schools. It will be recalled that the capital grants for the works and housing programme are being provided under arrangements agreed with the States in June 1970 whereby the Commonwealth is providing part, now equal to about 25 per cent, of that programme as a grant in lieu of borrowings, The savings on debt charges to the States for the works and housing programmes for the 5 years to 1974-75, as a result of the introduction of these capital grants, will be of the order of $200m. The grants for capital expenditure on government schools are being provided under arrangements announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in December last year for providing capital grants to the States totalling $20m over the 18 months ending June 1973. Last year's allocation of the capital' grants for schools was authorised by previous legislation. 
A number of honourable members referred to the financing of local government authorities in Australia. For the record, I want to make some comments on the Commonwealth's attitude. Local government authorities are created and function under State laws. The Commonwealth does not wish to disturb the constitutional structure whereby the responsibility is placed on State governments and parliaments to determine the revenue raising powers that local authorities should have and to assess the extent to which the financial resources available to them should be supplemented and by what means. In accordance with this attitude, the Commonwealth does not normally provide direct grants to local authorities. What it does is provide to the State governments large amounts of general, that is untied, assistance which they are free to disburse as they themselves decide. It is, accordingly, for each State government to allocate the volume of funds which should be passed on to local government authorities from the total funds available, including those from the Commonwealth. I have referred to that in speaking on these Bills. 
The most important way in which Commonwealth assistance is provided to the States is through the general revenue grants. The arrangements under which these grants will be paid over the 5 years ending 1974-75 were determined initially at the Premiers Conference in June 1970 to which I referred earlier and were substantially revised again as a result of discus sions at the June 1971 and June 1972 Premiers Conferences. Under these arrangements the level and rate of growth of Commonwealth general revenue assistance to the States have been significantly increased as compared with the previous arrangements. It is estimated, for example, that the States will receive in 1972-73- the current year - over $420m more in Commonwealth general revenue assistance than they would have received had the arrangements which existed before 1970-71 continued unchanged. 
At the June 1971 Premiers Conference, besides agreeing to provide additional revenue grants, the Commonwealth offered to transfer payroll tax to the States so as to provide them with a new and significant source of revenue. The States accepted this offer and have been levying payroll tax since September last year. At the same conference the Commonwealth agreed as a special measure of assistance to local government authorities, to meet the full cost, estimated at about $6m last year and $8m in a full year, that would otherwise be incurred by State governments in exempting the non-business activities of local government authorities from the payment of payroll tax at the former rate. The relief that the States are thus providing to local government authorities has been welcomed by local government authorities throughout Australia and implemented in effect by the Commonwealth. 
The Government believes that having substantially improved the general revenue grants arrangements, having facilitated access by the States to a new area of growth taxation which they have already acted upon, and having continued to increase the levels of numerous other forms of assistance to the States which are not detailed now, it has done all it reasonably can do at this time, given the other demands on the resources available to it, towards putting the States in a position adequately to meet their financial responsibilities including their responsibilities in respect of the affairs of local government authorities given the competing priorities which they, like the Commonwealth Government, encounter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I thank the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for his courtesy in notifying me that he intended to raise this matter this evening. I thank him also for the moderate way in which he has put forward his questions and the matters to which he referred. I assure him that I am very well aware of the position in the aircraft factories. As recently as yesterday I received a deputation from employees of the Hawker de Havilland factories in Sydney. We had a lengthy discussion on these questions and some of the points that were raised in certain newspaper articles to which the honourable member has referred were mentioned. Of course, there is no way of stopping people from writing and publishing what they will and posing a number of questions as they do. 
There are other sides to the questions that were raised and I will not go into them in great detail. However, I want to outline what I believe is the present position. The Government has been very active in the aircraft industry in recent times. The work load of the industry obviously is its most important single aspect. In the last year the Government has commenced production on the Turana target drone with an initial order of 12. 
This makes it possible to commence production and to sell a number of the target drones overseas, and we are actively engaged in that process. Production has commenced on an initial order for the Nomad aircraft which, as the honourable member would be aware, has been exhibited at the Farnborough Air Show, an exhibition which, from our point of view, came a little earlier than was ideally convenient. Nevertheless, the world is now aware of this aircraft and its capabilities. 
It received a. great deal of praise and the Government believes, as it believed originally, that prospects for this aircraft are very good indeed. We are hopeful that in putting it into production we will be able to sell a large number of these aircraft. Last year saw a further sale of the Ikara anti-submarine weapon. In this case the sale was to Brazil and a contract of some 20m was announced. Australia has already installed the Ikara in some of its own naval ships and, of course, some British naval ships. 
So I suggest that in recent times the work load has shown some improvement, but clearly a good deal more improvement is needed if we are to maintain the industry within the terms of the Government's stated policy of a small, but viable and effective aircraft industry. The Government is actively engaged in endeavouring to obtain more work from offset orders. There are good prospects of obtaining this and other types of work, but I am not at liberty at the present time to describe them. I want to say in general that work is available to the industry from overseas but in tight competitive conditions. Costs in this industry, as in so many others, are a most important feature. 
The Government has carried out a number of rationalisation studies centred on rationalisation in the Sydney' area and, separately, the Melbourne area. To what extent rationalisation will take place is dependent on the work load. It is for that reason that I have put the work load first in what I have said. At the same time, as has been announced, an examination is to be made of a number of alternatives to remoulding the structure. If one were to sit down and think about the matter it would be apparent that there are a number of different ways of rationalising the industry and of setting up a structure. We have indicated that we will look at whether there is any way in which overseas manufacturers can help us. We believe that certain overseas manufacturers are in a position to help us and desire to help us. We are endeavouring to find out in what way we can get the most from them for the Australian aircraft industry and what is in our best interests. 
All of the aspects I have mentioned are interdependent. None of them is by any means settled. It would be very nice to be able to stand up and say that such and such will be the result, but I am not in a position to do so this evening. So I cannot answer in full the questions which the honourable member for Corio and other honourable members have raised. But I can say that a great deal of work is being done and that I- believe that properly pressed - remembering that many parties are involved and it is a complex exercise - we will develop a small but effective and viable aircraft industry in Australia which will satisfy the defence needs that we undoubtedly have and we will set up an organisation which will be highly cost conscious and competitive. I believe that we will have a relatively stable work load and that we will be able to expand our range of technology beyond our present capacity and, as a result, get some spin-off in technology for commercial industry. 
As the honourable member will no doubt know, I received in Parliament House last week a deputation from certain union representatives and employees of Hawker de Havilland. As I have Indicated to the House on a number of occasions, discussions have been going on with elements of the aircraft industry in Australia to determine the best way to deal with its present difficulties. The Government has recently put into production, as the House is aware, the Turana target drone, the Nomad aircraft, and it has before it several proposals for increased work load. Yesterday in Sydney I had discussions with the management of the 2 private elements of the aircraft industry to consider, in line with the Government's earlier announcement, various rationalisation proposals and various courses aimed at building a firmer industry and one with a more stable work-load. The aircraft industry is an industry which is subject to peaks and troughs of work. This is the case in this industry all over the world. The Government will do its utmost to obtain a work-load to make it smoother and sustained over a longer period. In respect of the factory to which the honourable member referred, certain points were raised at the deputation which I have had my officers examine with a view to ascertaining what can be done in the near future. 
Curtin - Minister for Supply) - I present the following papers: 
Taxation - Taxation Statistics 1970-71, supplement to the 50th Report of the Commissioner of Taxation, dated 1st September 1972, and  51st  Report of the Commissioner of Taxation dated 1st September 1972.  and move: 
That the papers be printed. 
Might 1 say that honourable members will recall that it is the practice of the House to agree forthwith to the motion to print these papers so that they will be covered by parliamentary privilege. This course has the concurrence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  When the motion for the printing of the papers has been agreed to the papers will be circulated to honourable members. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950, I present the twenty-fourth annual report of the trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31st December 1971, together with the report of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the fund as required by section 35 of the Act. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Supply has not conducted any surveys to estimate the average number of miles that vehicles in its taxi pool can travel per hour in each State capital. 
However records are available which show the chargeable miles travelled per chargeable hour by Commonwealth cars engaged in taxi pool operations except in Tasmania. 
Available details for 1971/72 are as follows: 
by leave - On behalf of the Prime Minister and Acting Treasurer  (Mr McMahon)  I wish to inform the House that the Commonwealth has decided to provide special budgetary assistance to New South Wales in 1972-73 in the form of a loan of $15m. The Premier and Treasurer of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, is introducing his Budget for 1972- 73 in the State Parliament tonight, and will be referring to the special Commonwealth assistance in the course of his Budget speech. The terms and conditions on which the special Commonwealth loan of $15m is being provided are broadly similar to those applying to the special loan of $ 17.5m made by the Commonwealth to New South Wales in 1971-72 and to the special loan of $10m made by the Commonwealth to Victoria in 1969-70. In deciding to provide this special assistance, the Government has had regard to the extraordinarily difficult Budget situation confronting New South Wales this year by reason of a number of special factors which the State Premier and Treasurer will be referring to in his Budget speech. The necessary legislative authority for the loan will be sought after the new Parliament is convened. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following document: 
Letter to the Administrator of the Commonwealth from the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Grants Commission reporting the amounts to be recommended for payments of special grants to the States in 1972-73. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission's further report is expected to be available for tabling in the House when Parliament meets again on 10th October 1972. The States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill is being introduced today so that the House can have sufficient time to examine its provisions. I assure honourable members that the Bill will not come on for debate until the Grants Commission's further report is tabled and there has been a reasonable opportunity for members to study it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to implement the Government's decision to legislate for the comprehensive supervision of general insurance companies in Australia. The Bill follows closely the scheme of legislation which was outlined by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to the House on 9th December 1971. The Government's approach in the preparation of the legislation has been to strike a balance between the need to regulate insurance companies and the preservation of the rights of those companies to carry on business in a free enterprise environment. 
The need for an improved system of supervision of general insurance companies in the public interest is  widely  recognised. The Bill will protect the public by preventing weak companies from engaging in this business and by requiring authorised insurers to be capable of meeting their liabilities. At the same time, most companies carrying on general insurance in Australia are sound and well managed and the normal conduct of business should not be impeded by excessive restrictions. Although the Bill sets new standards of financial soundness for general insurance companies and imposes new obligations on them, the standards are not unreasonable and the requirements conform as closely as possible with existing business practices. 
To summarise the Bill in a few words, it requires companies wishing to carry on insurance other than life insurance to satisfy minimum standards of solvency in order to obtain authorities to carry on the business, and thereafter to maintain those standards. An authorised insurer failing to maintain the solvency standards, or in danger of falling below them, may be subject to investigation which could lead to directions being given to deal with the situation. The Bill also provides for the establishment of an insurance tribunal to hear appeals against administrative decisions. 
The main details of the Bill are as 1 shall indicate. 
Preliminary 
Fart I defines insurance business and the scope and application of the Bill. Provision is made for the Part to come into operation on royal assent and for the remaining provisions to come into force by proclamation. This will allow time to establish the organisation that will be needed to administer the legislation. The commissioner foi the purposes of the Bill will be the Insurance Commissioner holding office under the Life Insurance Act. In this way the supervision of life and general insurance will be brought under one administration, an arrangement which is becoming increasingly desirable. In this connection it is proposed to terminate the longstanding practice for the Commonwealth Actuary to be the Insurance Commissioner and to arrange for the Insurance Commissioner to be a separate office. 
The definition of 'insurance business' is similar to that in the Insurance Act 1932- 1966, but specific reference has been made to reinsurance to avoid any doubts as to coverage, and some additions have been made to the types of business excluded from the definition. For constitutional reasons and because State government insurance undertakings are guaranteed by their respective States, State insurance, including State insurance extending beyond the limits of the State concerned, has been exempted from compliance with the legislation. However, State governments have expressed agreement that their insurance offices should co-operate in furnishing statistical information to the Commissioner. Similarly, Commonwealth and Territory instrumentalities have been exempted from compliance with the legislation. 
Authority to Carry on Insurance Business 
Clause 12 of Part II prohibits the carrying on of insurance business other than by a body corporate authorised under the Act or by a Lloyd's underwriter while Part VI continues to have effect. Part II sets out the procedures for making application for an authority, the requirements which an applicant must satisfy to obtain an authority, and the conditions to which authorities are subject. One of the main conditions is that an authorised insurer must maintain a margin of assets in Australia over liabilities in Australia equal to 15 per cent of premium income in Australia during the preceding financial year or $100,000, whichever is the greater. For the purposes of the margin of solvency calculation, special definitions of assets, liabilities and premium income are provided in clauses 8, 9, 10 and 11. 
Separate provisions for authorisation have been made in clauses 15, 16 and 17 for insurers carrying on insurance business in Australia before 9th December 1971, which was the date of the Treasurer's statement giving advance information about the details to be included in the legislation. Clause 18 empowers the Treasurer to refuse to grant an authority in certain circumstances and provides for an appeal to the Insurance Tribunal against a refusal by the Treasurer. Provision is made in clause 23 for the cancellation of authorities in specified circumstances. Clause 24 provides for an exemption from the provisions of the Act in respect of insurance business for the benefit of a limited class of persons where the gross premium income is less than $200,000 in a year. 
Part III of the Bill requires accounts to be kept and audited accounts and statements to be furnished in prescribed forms. It also deals with the appointment and duties of auditors. The effectiveness of the proposed system of supervision will depend to a large extent on the scope and accuracy of information received by the commissioner. All authorised insurers are required to furnish information annually in respect of insurance business and other business in Australia. Insurers incorporated in Australia are also required to furnish information in respect of business carried on outside Australia. Insurers incorporated abroad are required to lodge copies of information supplied under insurance laws overseas and to notify any contravention or failure to comply with any overseas insurance law. 
In addition quarterly returns of selected assets and liabilities and monthly returns of premiums, claims and expenses are to be submitted. Professional reinsurers are required to furnish specialised information on their business. Members of the public will have access to copies of an insurer's balance sheet, underwriting account, profit and loss and appropriation account as submitted to the commissioner. All other returns will be confidential. However, selected information will be processed from the returns and published as aggregates for general statistical purposes. This will be an important by-product of the legislation, providing information which will be valuable to insurers in managing their businesses as well as being of importance generally within the community. 
Investigations 
Part IV provides for the commissioner to obtain additional information from an authorised insurer which appears unlikely to meet its obligations. If necessary the commissioner may direct the insurer not to remove assets from Australia for a period of up to 6 months, such a direction being subject to appeal. Provision is also made for investigation of the affairs of an authorised insurer which is, or is likely to be, unable to meet its obligations or to comply with the legislation. The investigation provisions, which are modelled on the corresponding provisions of the uniform Companies Acts, provide for appointment of an inspector by the Treasurer. The powers of an inspector include power to enter premises on reasonable grounds and power to investigate associated companies. Other provisions deal with the responsibilities and rights of company officers and report by the inspector to the Treasurer. Following an investigation, the Treasurer may issue directions to the insurer as to the further conduct of its business. 
Insurance Tribunal 
Part V establishes an insurance tribunal to hear appeals against administrative decisions under the legislation. These provisions are an important feature of the Bill. The tribunal is to consist of a judge as chairman with 3 other members with knowledge of insurance, but not a director or employee of an insurer. The arrangements for the appointment of the members are set out in division 1 of this part. The steps to be taken from the institution of appeal proceedings up to the stage of the hearing are specified in division 2 and provision is made in division 3 for procedures during a hearing. Provision has also been made for reference to the Commonwealth Industrial Court of a question of law arising in proceedings before the tribunal. Division 4 provides for offences in relation to the tribunal. 
Lloyd's 
Part VI authorises the carrying on of insurance business in Australia by Lloyd's underwriters, subject to compliance by the Society of Lloyd's with the provisions of this part and of the second schedule. Lloyd's underwriters do not fit into the general supervisory system of the Bill which relates to bodies corporate, being individuals with unlimited personal liability who form syndicates of varying numbers to undertake insurance transactions in many parts of the world. Special provisions have been made for this class of insurer. The main requirements are that the Society will lodge Commonwealth securities with the Treasurer to the value of  $500,000  and will also lodge a convenant by an Australian bank in favour of the Treasurer equal in amount to the annual net premium income of Lloyd's underwriters from their Australian business. The deposit and amounts payable under the covenant will be available to satisfy final judgments obtained in Australia against a Lloyd's underwriter. The value of the securities and the amount of the covenant will be adjusted annually and securities or amounts paid by a bank under a covenant will be replenished if they are used. Lloyd's are required to furnish an annual return of net premium income in Australia for the purpose of adjusting the amount of the covenant and to provide the commissioner with copies of returns furnished to the United Kingdom authorities. Lloyd's are also required to furnish such accounts and statements as the Treasurer determines corresponding as far as practicable to the accounts and statements to be furnished by bodies corporate under the legislation. 
Effect of Act on Other Laws 
Part VII provides for the protection of State and Territory legislation on insurance. It provides that, on the one hand, the Commonwealth legislation will not be over-ridden by State and Territory legislation dealing with authorisation of insurers to carry on insurance businss generally. On the other hand, it protects State and Territory legislation on insurance in particular fields, such as workers' compensation, compulsory and third party motor vehicle insurance, hire-purchase, stamp duty and fire brigade levies. 
Transitional Provisions 
State supervisory legislation which exercises control over the whole field of general insurance, such as the Queensland insurance legislation, is safeguarded by clauses  98  to  100  for specified periods to allow time for the Commonwealth legislation to have full effect. Part VIII also provides transitional arrangements for persons and companies ceasing to carry on insurance business after the Act comes into force, because they are not bodies corporate or do not apply for authorities or are refused authorities. These provisions are likely to be very important during the early years of the legislation and include power to investigate where necessary. 
Miscellaneous 
Part IX makes provision for a number of machinery matters to support the other provisions of the Bill. They include a prohibition on unauthorised insurers carrying on business through agents, a power for the commissioner to inspect the books of an authorised insurer corresponding to a similar power in the uniform Companies Acts, secrecy provisions to be observed by the commissioner and his staff, general provisions on offences and penalties and a regulation-making power. 
Insurance Brokers 
In his statement of 9th December 1971, the Treasurer said that it was proposed that the Commonwealth should legislate for the supervision of insurance brokers. That is still the intention, but it became necessary during this year to concentrate all available drafting resources on the preparation of the Insurance Bill and legislation on insurance brokers was put aside for the time being. That work will be resumed as soon as possible. 1 commend the Insurance Bill to honourable members. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second lime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to change the name of the Insurance Act 1932-1966 to the Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932-1972, to provide for the termination of the deposit requirement after the new system of supervision provided for in the Insurance Bill becomes fully effective and to provide for other matters consequential upon introduction of the Insurance Bill. 
The proposal to terminate the deposit requirement after an interim period is in accordance with the proposal announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his statement of 9th December 1971. A deposit will not, however, be released to a company in liquidation, but will be retained by the Treasurer for use as at present. 
The consequential matters include exempting insurers from furnishing information relating to the deposit requirement after they begin furnishing the much more comprehensive information provided for under the Insurance Bill. The Bill is commended to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment in 1972-73 of special grants of $1Om to Queensland, $21m to South Australia and $7.6m to Tasmania. These payments accord with the recommendations made by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in a letter of 12th July 1972 to the Administrator of the Commonwealth, which has already been tabled. The Bill also seeks the usual authority for payment of advances to the 3 States in the early months of the 1973-74 year, pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year, and enactment of legislation to provide for the grants to be paid in that year. 
The Government makes special grants to financially weaker States, to compensate them for, such factors as, lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources and higher costs in providing government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States. When special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially weaker states for this purpose. The main way in which special compensatory assistance is now provided is through the higher per capita financial assistance grants paid to the 4 less populous States. The financial assistance grants are, of course, the main general revenue grants to the States. The special grants may, therefore, be regarded as supplementing the financial assistance grants, and as having the special characteristic of being independently as well as expertly assessed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
The method used by the Grants Commission, briefly put, is to calculate grants which will bring the claimant States' budgetary positions up to the 2 most populous States taken as 'standard', after allowing for differences between the States concerned in their financial practices and their efforts to raise revenue and control expenditure. This involves a detailed comparison of the standard and claimant States' budgetary revenues and expenditures. 
The recommendations by the Grants Commission for payment of special grants consist of 2 parts. One part is based on an estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year and is treated as an advance payment; subject to adjustment 2 years later when the Commission has compared in detail the Budget results and standards of effort and of services provided in that year for both the claimant State and the States which it takes as standard. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made 2 years earlier and is known as the completion payment. It may result in the final grant in respect of that year being higher or lower than the original advance payment. 
As honourable members are aware, the Queensland Government first applied for a special grant in 1971-72. The Grants Commission submitted a special report on Queensland's application in March this year. The Government accepted the recommendation contained in that report that an advance grant of $9m be paid to Queensland in 1971-72 and payment of this special grant was subsequently authorised by the Queensland Grant Act 1972. This advance grant will be subject to adjustment next financial year after a detailed examination of the State's financial position in 1971-72 relative to those  of  New South Wales and Victoria. Queensland again applied to the Commonwealth for a special grant for 1972-73 and the Grants Commission has recommended payment of an advance grant of Si Om  to  Queensland in 1972-73. This grant will,  of  course, be subject to adjustment in 1974- 75. 
The Commission has recommended the payment of special grants totalling $21m to South Australia in 1972-73 made up  of  an advance payment of $13. 5m for 1972- 73, compared with $7m in 1971-72, and a completion payment of $7. 5m in respect of 1970-71. This last completion grant recommended in respect of 1970-71 brings the total special grant in respect of that year to $12.5m. The relatively high level of this completion grant reflects the fact that it was in 1970-71 that South Australia applied for a special grant again after several years' absence from claimancy, and the advance grant recommended at that time was necessarily fairly tentative. 
The Grants Commission has recommended the payment of special grants totalling $7.6m to Tasmania in 1972-73, made up of an advance payment of $IOm for 1972-73 and a negative completion payment of $2.4m in respect of 1970-71. This adjustment in respect of Tasmania's 1970-71 grant means that the advance payment of $12m made in that year has proved, after detailed examination by the Commission, to be an over-estimate of the State's needs for that year. The 1972-73 advance grant will, of course, be subject to adjustment in 1974-75. The basis of the Commission's recommendations will be set out fully in its 39th report which should be available shortly. I remind honourable members that it is the intention of the Government not to proceed to the second reading debate until the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission has been tabled. The recommendations of the Grants Commission have been adopted by Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the last silting week the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  misrepresented me in a speech on the Loan (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill when he raised the matter of the defence aircraft industry which apparently he thought was relevant. At page 1928 of Hansard, referring to me, he said:   . . when he got to the door of the Boeing company  in  the United States  to  see  the management he with  the Secretary  of his  Department  was  virtually shown the door 
I have never visited or sought to visit Boeing. I have never been overseas with the Secretary of the Department of Supply. The Secretary went overseas long after my visit and he was received very well by Boeing. The honourable member for Blaxland also said in his speech that I went overseas to see whether the Dassault organisation in France and the Boeing organisation in the United States were interested in joining a consortium with Australian companies. I comment that I have never gone overseas for that purpose. Other parts of the honourable member's speech contain many errors of fact and judgment. 
I wish to make a further personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Defence Standards Laboratories have held NATA registration as an approved laboratory since 1949. The approval is for work in 7 fields, and the work covers not only testing but also the examination and calibration of equipment such as standards, measuring machines and instruments. 
and (3) Details for the last 5 years of the numbers of commercial organisations for which tests or calibrations were carried out, the number of items involved and amounts paid are as follows: 
I have heard comments made to the effect mentioned in the honourable member's question. I mention that the central authority which is conducted by the Department of Supply provides passenger and goods transport for most Government departments. There has been a steady increase in its activities in recent years - a small increase per annum. It is mainly in the weekly hire self-drive fleet of the Department. Recently I took the opportunity to announce the ordering of a replacement of some 1,650 motor vehicles. In general, there has been a small growth in the passenger fleet and a slight reduction in the long haul goods transport section which will be met by a corresponding increase in goods transport vehicles. There is no foundation for the suggestion contained in honourable member's question. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971, I present the twenty-fourth annual report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial accounts. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act 1954-1972, I present the eighteenth annual statement concerning the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ended 30th June 1972. 
Pursuant to section 134 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, I present the Forty-ninth Annual Report of the Superannuation Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-49 I present the report of the Auditor-General on the accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Services Trust Fund Act 1947-1950 I present the annual reports of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund, The Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with the reports of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the funds. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought on actual payments would be obtainable in detail only from each of the Commonwealth Departments and Instrumentalities using petroleum products. No central record of expenditure is kept. However, from estimated usage figures adopted in letting period contracts by the 2 main Commonwealth contracting authorities, viz. the Contract Board of the Department of Supply and the Commonwealth Stores Supply and Tender Board, for the supply of these products an estimate of the aggregate annual value of usage has been assessed as follows: expenditure by Trans-Australia Airlines, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, the Snowy Mountains Council and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, each of which makes its own procurement arrangements. The best conveniently available estimate of total annual payments by these bodies to oil companies is of the order of $16 million. 
Any further detail or greater accuracy would require extensive enquiry amongst all Departments and Instrumentalities. 
The table below shows the Companies, areas and periods of current contracts let by the Contract Board of the Department of Supply. Information on Contracts let by the Commonwealth Stores Supply and Tender Board and the authorities mentioned in (1) above would need to be sought separately. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: &lt;1) Charges are included to cover Navy inspection. 
It is not the practice to divulge such information as it could result in disadvantage to the Commonwealth. 
and (4) No. Receipts for this purpose ate paid to consolidated revenue from which the Navy Inspection Service is financed. Any additional effort by the Navy Inspection Service would need to be provided for by appropriation through normal Budget processes. 

 - Mr Speaker may I, in rising for the first time in this Parliament, congratulate you on your election to your high office. A number of tributes have been paid to you about your humour, which is usually by way of interjection in this House. I certainly wish to associate myself with the recognition of the quality of your humour and might I add, because I do not think this point has been made, it has been a humour without any acrimony and that, indeed, is a rare trait in this House. You also,  Sir, have  other notable abilities, particularly with the cue. This has not been mentioned and the occasion should not pass without such an acknowledgement. I was very glad to hear you acknowledge the objectivity and sincerity of your predecessor,  Sir William 
Aston, and you took the opportunity,  Mr Speaker,  to emphasise that you meant that sincerely. I was pleased to hear it and I am sure that my colleagues on this side of the House in particular were glad to hear it. But it must be the aim of all great Speakers to achieve the highest perfection in objectivity and I am sure that you will make strong efforts to reach that perfection as you have tried to In other fields. 
I rise not to be particularly controversial but to say one or two things about the Australian aircraft industry. In the short time that the Government has been in office the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  - he has numerous other portfolios but I will confine my description of him to that - celebrated the signing of the first commercial sale of the Nomad aircraft. This is a remarkable aircraft that has been designed and manufactured in the Government Aircraft Factories. The signing of the contract is the culmination of a great deal of planning and of support by previous governments to provide a manufacturing capacity within the aircraft industry in Australia. The Nomad aircraft has flown in Canberra and in a number of other places. I am sorry to say that not many members of this House availed themselves of the opportunity of going to see this wholly designed and manufactured Australian aircraft. I remind the House that it is a light utility short take off landing, STOL, aircraft capable of taking off and landing in remarkably short distances. When it was flown last year at the Farnborough Air Show it excited great worldwide interest. Undoubtedly there is a great demand for this aircraft. I congratulate the Government Aircraft Factories on the design and manufacture of the aircraft. 
I hope that the Government will support the Australian aircraft industry now it is in government as much as it said it would before the Federal elections because the Labor Party certainly had a lot to say about it then. There are a few supporters of the Government here now who are still in that category. 1 hope that the Government does not just sit back and rely on earlier programmes and think that will fill the bill. This aircraft, as I have said, is a great aircraft and has a tremendous sales potential. What is needed now that we have passed the initial stage of an order of 20 aircraft is for the Government to give the aircraft industry a significant order of some 50 to 100 aircraft without waiting any longer. This is necessary in order that these factories can get into a production line with a scale of production to enable them to effect economies. After all it is obvious that the first few aircraft - indeed the first one - required capital expenditure which could be mainly used over a large run of aircraft production. 
As I have said, there is a great sales potential for the Nomad aircraft as can be seen from all the inquiries that have been made. But the initial order for 20 aircraft is no longer enough. After all, the Army is taking 11 of them and after the sale there are only 8 left. As all honourable members know, it is easier to sell aircraft when they can be bought off the shelf rather than prior to production. The Commonwealth Government, for its part, could be a major purchaser. I think the Health Department owns some 6 Doves which must surely be in need of replacement. There are many departments that can use the Nomad aircraft. This demand would be in addition to outside sales or regarded as a last resort but I believe that anyone who looks into the matter will be confident as I am that these aircraft can be sold all around the world. 
I hope nobody believes that the manufacture of even 400 Nomad aircraft - and we hope that that is the ultimate production - will build up the Australian aircraft industry to the level to which it needs to be built because, after all, that is in technology a relatively narrow field. It is not a tremendous work load. There needs to be an expansion in range and in depth of the skills and technology which are held in this industry. From time to time we read some not very learned comments in the newspapers about the replacement of the Mirage aircraft. That decision will be a financial and military decision and when the day comes that the Government of the day sees fit to replace it - the type cannot be known until the Government is ready to make that decision. It will also make a decision about the number of aircraft; it will not necesarily be the same number, which is 100 Mirage 3s that we have at present. We would expect areas of the Australia aircraft industry to share in some way in the production and certainly in the support. That is a separate decision. It has to be clearly understood that the decision to replace the Mirage 3 aircraft, dependent on possible threats and when the aircraft are likely to become obsolete, is a very expensive military decision. What the aircraft industry needs in order to expand its range and depth is another question. I believe that a decision concerning the Mirage 3 replacement is a good way off so it is necessary for that industry to acquire more sophisticated skills by joining with other countries in coproduction schemes for the manufacture of aircraft. 
The Australian aircraft industry is not nearly big enough to carry out this project on its own. I hope that nobody in this place thinks the Australian industry is anywhere near able with its present structure to build a highly sophisticated air superiority fighter aircraft. I think 5,000 or 6,000 men are involved in the industry at present. I shall mention some comparisons of manpower in other countries. There are 235,000 people employed in the aircraft industry in the United Kingdom, 100,000-plus in the French industry and 15,000 in Canada and Italy. The 5,000 to 6,000 people employed in the aircraft industry in Australia range over the whole field, including the manufacture of engines. I point out that there is a need for expansion. The Government needs to show confidence in the Nomad, and to give it the production scale we need to go much further. I urge the Government to pursue with vigour the search for a co-production scheme which will allow the industry the workload and manhours which it needs to build itself up in the next 5 or 10 years. This would give benefit to Australia from the point of view of defence capacity. It would improve our techniques and the manufacturing industry would gain greatly from this highly sophisticated industry. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the practice of his secretaries and the secretaries of his Ministers replying direct to letters and communications sent by members. 
If so, will he ensure that the practice, formerly appertaining, of Ministers personally,signing letters and' communications to all members' of Parliament will be followed by himself and his Ministers. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Has he examined the records of his Department to test his accusations that unemployment statistics were rigged. 
If so, what has been the result of the examination. 
Will he table the documents on which he based his accusations. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that so farin the life of his Government not all Ministers' press releases appear  to  have been sent to Members. 
If so, will he ensure that all Ministers' press releases, speeches containing policy matters and other policy pronouncements by Ministers of his Government are sent to Members. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in a despatch of Press releases received by members on or about 30th January 1973 there were several pages of what appeared to be a transcript of an interview with either the Minister for Social Security or the Minister for Health which was without any heading or indication of who the questioner or answerer was. 
If so, will he ensure that in future all material sent to members is properly headed and identified so that it is clear who is making a statement, who is answering a question and under whose authority it is being issued. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Press releases issued by his Ministers are reaching the offices of members as late as 20 days after their release in Canberra to the Press Gallery. 
If so, will he ensure that the full Press statement is sent so as to arrive at the office of a member within a week of issue. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Have the guidelines for the use of VIP aircraft and VIP motor vehicles been varied since 5th December 1972. 
If so, what are the details of the guidelines now established. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Can he provide complete details of the (a) salaries, (b) allowances and (c) superannuation schemes for Ministers and Members in each State Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the press statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade on 28th December 1972 concerning the Minister's attitude to the policy of the United States of America to North Vietnam. 
If so, did he, in his capacity either as Prime Minister or Minister for Foreign Affairs, depute the Minister for Overseas Trade to make this statement. 
If he did not depute the Minister, did he know in advance that the statement would be made. 
Does the statement represent the policy of the Government. 
Has the Minister for Overseas Trade been assigned any responsibilities to assist him in foreign affairs matters and to help formulate policy; if so, what is the extent of those responsibilities. 
Has he examined known left-wing attitudes to foreign policy and analysed their aspects. 
If so, has his examination disclosed a similarity with the views expressed in the statement. 
After the Minister made the statement, did he state that he had spoken to the Minister and that no further statements would be made on foreign affairs by Ministers of his Government except himself. 
Did the Ministers for Overseas Trade, Labour and Urban and Regional Development subsequently make strong statements. 
Have Members of the Government  a  consistent foreign policy. " 
I  address my  question to the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply, and refer to the document tabled yesterday by him which he described as 'the full documentation of the investigation which I requested from the Secretary of the Department of Defence', and which he then used as a basis for answering a number of questions in this House yesterday. Did he then believe that the contents of the document he tabled were true? If the answer is no, why did he not say so in the many answers on the subject that he gave during yesterday's question time? Does he now believe that the contents are true? If he does not now believe that the contents are true, when did he reach that conclusion and in what respects does he consider the document to be misleading? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
Will he provide details of the list of Cabinet committees which it is understood was handed to the Press at his Press conference on 9th January 1973. 
Will he keep the House at least as equally informed as the media in respect of such matters pertaining to his Government. 
Will he provide the information contained in all handouts to the House; if not, will he distribute the information to members with other Press releases. 
made in this debate. Some of the other contributions have been good and others not so good. It seemed to me that a number of the Government speakers were somewhat peeved to find that the Opposition was not opposing the provisions of the Bill. They belaboured that aspect with a querulous tone in their voices which made it clear that the props had been knocked from under their argument. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  who is not now in the chamber, made an attempt at a serious contribution to the debate although in many cases he sounded like a man used to talking to Labor Party branch meetings  who  has not had very much opposition. He made some good points, certainly a number of controversial ones and a number of superficial ones. One or two of these were taken up firmly by my colleagues, notably the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who disposed completely of the old argument that, if a man is old enough to fight for his country, he should have the right to vote. 
The honourable member for La Trobe tried to mock the fact that the age of majority is 21 by saying it assumes that all of a sudden a man becomes full of wisdom on his 21st birthday. Of course, one can make, an emotional appeal, but surely one can make that appeal for any age. People will be able to vote at 1 8 years of age, but we do not pretend that on their 18th birthday they suddenly become endowed with wisdom. That was the phrase the honourable member used. We are making an arbitrary decision that that is a more fitting date. This is really the crux of the matter, and I think it is the crux of the controversy that has previously surrounded this whole issue. But at present the right to vote at 18 is not contested. One can use all the emotional arguments that were used in favour of allowing people of 1 8, 19 and 20 years of age to vote, in favour of allowing people to vote at 17, 16 or some other age. Many countries have determined that 18 is a fitting age. At this stage Australia feels that it is right to adopt that age. I point out that a deal of simulated emotion on the rights of young people to vote does not really carry the argument forward. An arbitrary decision has been made. It is important to recognise that because it leads us to recognise what right we are conferring. 
In the few minutes available to me I want to make a distinction that has not been made in this debate. When we give someone the right to vote we are demanding, because voting is compulsory, that he makes a judgment about the parties and the candidate he feels will act best on his behalf and in the interests of the country. That is not necessarily connected directly with the intelligence of those people as it is understood by a measurement of intelligence quotients, or their education, which has improved a great deal in more recent years. Education is in some ways a circumstance which locks these people away from public affairs and the practical day to day living which can influence their capacity for making good judgments. 1 make that distinction between intelligence, education and judgment. 
One can build up a case - a case has been built - that younger people today have greater maturity in a biological sense and in other senses. But equally important is the day to day learning which people obtain from being involved in making decisions in ordinary daily life and in a wider sphere than in the high school or university. We ought to remember that, in making it compulsory for all 18, 19 and 20-year-olds to vote, we must have regard for the position of the average young person and not merely that of the high school and university students who may be. affected and who are, by definition, in a different position. If I appear to be showing some hesitancy for this legislation let me argue that we have seen an evolution in thought in this country and around the world in recent years. Those considerations to which I referred very briefly are considerations which have made many people who have wished to be. fair hesitate. Those people have not been consumed by bias in favour of a political party, if on analysis such an argument can be validly maintained. But the view has been growing around the world - the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  referred to a number of countries which have voting ages of 18 and above or ages below 21 - that youth is now more able to exercise valid judgments, that it is now more active and interested in public affairs and that it is now more politically conscious. 
do not think we would expect all those judgments to be correct and all that experience to be so wide that it would necessarily lead to the right decision or the right vote being made in given circumstances, but 1 think we would all say that the motives of young people have improved greatly. In many cases because of their circumstances they can come to only reasonably superficial views of events - that is the position of most people in this and in other countries - because their great source of information is the media, which deals very lightly with most important matters that concern governments and indeed this Parliament. Of course, that criticism is not confined to youth. I would argue that some of the supporters of the Government are noted for their superficial views, but this is not a reason for excluding youth. The problem is one of determining at what age, bearing in mind all the circumstances, one can reasonably believe that judgments can be made. We cannot know with absolute certainty that we are right in supporting this Bill and bringing in this change. 
I believe that, all things considered, it is best to act in this direction at ail future Federal elections. Although several honourable members have spoken about this in terms of reform, one should not confuse reform with change. One might want to put out such an argument in a propaganda mood, but one cannot be absolutely sure about reform. However, I believe that this is the moment for us to come down on the side on which we have come down. 
I want to add to the point that has been alluded to, and that is that if we concede, agree or promote that 18, 19 and 20-year-olds have the right and the obligation to vote, thus regarding them as adults, we should not look at the matter in isolation and say that they can have the vote but nothing else. As part of the Commonwealth Parliament, we should promote changes in the law over which the Commonwealth has control to give these adults full rights, obligations, liabilities and responsibilities in matters such as the making of contracts and wills. Perhaps we should consider making the age of 18 the cut-off date and raise to 18 years the age limit in respect of certain rights such as the obtaining of a drivers licence. In other words, we should not be looking at this as a piecemeal matter and as something to pander to the demands which have been made strongly by a few in the community but we should say that 18 years of age is to be the age of adulthood and therefore 1 8-year-olds must accept all the rights of adulthood in Australia and all the responsibilities that go with being an Australian citizen. 
The provisions of the Bill raise the statutory maximum contingent liability of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation from $500m to $750m. The principle embodied in the setting up of this legislation is a good one. The legislation has been subject to amendment on a number of occasions, amending Bills having been brought into the House. On the last occasion that such a Bill was debated in the House - 1 think it was in May 1971 or thereabouts - I took the opportunity, because there had been some controversy at that time about whether the principle was in accordance with the principles of the Liberal Party of which I am a member, to discuss what I thought were the principles involved. I shall not repeat them, but I allude to them because I believe them to be sound and thoroughly in accord with Australian Liberal Party principles. 
I note that the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  in his second reading speech, listed the occasions on which it has been thought necessary to raise the statutory maximum contingent liability, lt is interesting to note that it was necessary to increase the initial $50m to SI 00m in 1959, an increase of 100 per cent. In 1964 it was increased further by 50 per cent, in 1965 by 33 per cent, in 1970 by 50 per cent, in 1971 by 66 per cent and now we are increasing it by a further 50 per cent. Perhaps the Minister will take up this point: 1 question whether it is really worth while in a measure which, as far as I can see, will have universal support to have to bring back into the House so relatively frequently amendments to the contingent liability provision, and whether on this occasion it would not have been justifiable to raise it to a sum of SI, 000m in the full expectation of a great deal of necessary future expansion in the activities of this very worthy Corporation. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who is not present in the chamber at the moment, made what I presume were some pretty wild allegations about the Corporation. He made the charge that the former Government used the Corporation to support wheat sales, which tactic he obviously thought was very dubious. The charges that he made were serious. I presume that we have to take his remarks seriously. I ask the Minister, in his replay or on another occasion, to examine these matters to see whether there is any truth in them. What the honourable member suggested amounted to an improper practice. I think that the matter should be answered and that the Minister should have the strength to answer it. If he has not the information in front of him, no doubt he can obtain is easily. 
The Corporation was set up to encourage exports from Australia and that was recognised - I believe it is still recognised - by thinking people to be a very desirable objective. Let us be clear that the real danger which we face with our balance of payments is that of a deficit and not of a surplus. The events o! the past few months seem to me to have been an over-reaction to the position which built up in respect of our balance of payments. We had a long history of such great difficulty with deficits that when we got a surplus we seemed to go to other extremes. In December the Government made a unilateral decision to revalue the currency by 7.05 per cent, which put it in a position in which it received a blow, which I believe was completely unexpected by the Government and its advisers, when the United States decided to devalue by what is effectively 11.1 per cent against Australian currency, thus greatly affecting many of our exports. That leaves the Australian dollar overvalued in world terms. It is idle for the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to say that he made no decision when the American dollar was devalued. Of course there was a decision to leave the Australian currency unchanged when the currency of the greatest power on earth, America, was devalued. I believe that those decisions by the Government have weakened Australia's capacity to export. This Bill stands as an attempt by the former Government, supported by the amendment proposed by this Government, to encourage exports. The 2 attempts are hardly consistent, and I think this is an occasion on which that inconsistency should be drawn out. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to accept or reject the McMahon Government's restriction of 3 per cent per annum growth for the Public Service for 1972-73; if not, is there (a) a limit or (b) no limit in the growth? 
What are the intentions of the Government regarding the growth of the Public Service? 
How many public servants are there in each category, distinguishing permanent, temporary and exempt, as at the latest date for which figures are available? 
Has he carried out any examination into the effect of growth in the Public Service on the Australian economy, the Australian workforce and the Commonwealth Budget? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he state that he was unable to give the name of Australia's Ambassador to the People's Republic of China before it had been agreed to by the government of that country? 
Was the name of the Ambassador widely publicised as a fact in the media prior to official announcement? 
If so, will he give an assurance that neither he nor his staff gave the media that information? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice; 
Has the Government information on the reported intention of the People's Republic of China to explode nuclear devices in the atmosphere shortly, either on the Chinese mainland or elsewhere. 
If so, will the Government immediately lodge with China and the United Nations a note of protest in the strongest terms. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state in reply to question No. 134 (Hansard, 1st March 1973, page 196) that he signed substantive replies to letters and communications from Members of Parliament. 
Has his attention been drawn to a telegram sent by  Senator Durack, Senator Sim, Mr Viner  and myself, on 4th January 1973, asking for an urgent calling together of Parliament to discuss matters of urgent public importance; if so, was it not acknowledged until 8 th February and then either by  Dr Wilenski  or  Dr Wilenski's  secretary. 
Will he reply to that aspect of question No. 134 which asked him to ensure that his Ministers personally sign letters and communications to all Members of Parliament, as was the former practice. _ (4) Will he ensure that, in future, answers to questions are fully responsive to all aspects of the questions asked. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
On what date and with what result was the Queensland Government's attention drawn to the recommendation  of  the United Nations Visiting Mission 1971 on the revision  of  the border between Papua New Guinea and Queensland. 
Which Departments other than his own constitute the Interdepartmental Committee which was established to study the matter (Hansard, 9th May 1972, page 2194). 
With this session of the Parliament now one-third completed honourable members can take the opportunity to look at the parliamentary behaviour of the new Government. This afternoon I accuse the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other members of the Government of evasion, misrepresentation and treating Parliament and members of Parliament with contempt. In that accusation I certainly include the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is seated at the table. During the election campaign the Australian Labor Party made great play of its concept of open government. It implied that somehow, magically, government would be made more open in supplying information and in sharing with the people - and surely with the elected representatives of the people - the decision making process. What a joke that turned out to be. In a few weeks it has gone from open to slam shut government. This has been the quickest reversal in the history of the Australian Labor Party. 
This Government is very fond of talking about its mandates, but there was no reference in the Governor-General's Speech, which was written by the Government, to a mandate for open government. There was no further emphasis on that. What is worse, this Government has been guilty of a great deal of cavalier treatment and arrogance in its dealings with the elected representatives in the Parliament. I instance firstly the Prime Minister who, in answer to questions yesterday, claimed or affected to agree on behalf of this Government that the questions asked by private members and the answers to them were important parts of our representative democracy. At question time his answers to questions without notice travel the whole realms of irrelevancy. It is obvious to all of us who sit here that the Prime Minister will not or cannot answer specifically. The superciliousness and arrogance of his manner are plain to all who see him. It is an obvious attempt to cover up his inadequacies - 
 I hope,  Mr Speaker,  that he will change his attitude so I will not have to comment in another way later. 
The Prime Minister's attitude is being copied by his Ministers. I remind honourable members who were present at question time today of the copying of that behaviour by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Let us look for a moment at the answers which the Prime Minister has given to questions on notice. Those answers were in the main peremptory, cavalier and arrogant. Questions on notice are a prime avenue for members of Parliament to obtain information. Over 6,000 questions on notice were asked last year in the last Parliament. They received very good answers, in spite of what the Leader of the House had to say the other day. I know the care with which that information was compiled and I know that often many or all government departments were consulted. 
Let me refer to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 227. He evaded part of the question. His answer was not fully responsive. He made an attempt to convince us that the conduct of other Ministers - Ministers of his own Government - was not his concern. Are we to ask all Ministers the same question and put 27 questions on the notice paper? The Prime Minister is responsible for the conduct of his Ministers and he must answer the question fully. Indeed, his answer to this question contradicted an answer which he gave to question No. 134 that I asked. What does he do? Give any answer irrespective of its accuracy, just to get it off the notice paper? Question No. 205 contained several questions seeking elaboration of Government policy and relating to the behaviour of Ministers. Such matters are the core of Cabinet responsibility and part of the constitutional practice in this country. The Prime Minister had the audacity to refer me to some Press transcript. Members of Parliament have the right to full, completely responsive answers to questions which are properly and formally asked. 
A transcript of a Press conference is not an  official parliamentary document. In any case, this one did not answer the questions that were posed. At that Press conference they were evaded or not answered. I ask for leave of the 
House to incorporate in Hansard questions on notice Nos 227, 205 and 131 and the answers thereto. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
'Did he state in reply to question  No. 134  (Hansard, 1st March 1973, page 196) that he signed substantive replies to letters and communications from Members of Parliament. 
Has his attention been drawn to a telegram sent by  Senator Durack, Senator Sim, Mr Viner  and myself, on 4th January 1973, asking for an urgent calling together of Parliament to discuss matters of urgent public importance; if so, was it not acknowledged until 8th February and then either by  Dr Wilenski  or  Dr Wilenski's  secretary. 
Will he reply to that aspect of question No. 134 which asked him to ensure that his Ministers personally sign letters and communications to all Members of Parliament, as was the former practice. 
Will he ensure that, in future, answers to questions are fully responsive to all aspects of the questions asked. 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) These are matters for the individual Ministers concerned. (Question No. 205) 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Press statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade on 28th Dec ember 1972 concerning the Minister's attitude to the policy of the United States of America to North Vietnam. 
If so, did he, in his capacity either as Prime Minister or Minister for Foreign Affairs, depute the Minister for Overseas Trade to make this statement. 
If he did not depute the Minister, did he know in advance that the statement would be made. 
Does the statement represent the policy of the Government. 
Has the Minister for Overseas Trade been assigned any responsibilities to assist him in foreign affairs matters and to help formulate policy; if so, what is the extent of those responsibilities. 
Has he examined known left-wing attitudes to foreign policy and analysed their aspects. 
If  so,  has his examination disclosed a similarity with the views expressed in the statement. 
After the Minister made the statement, did he state that he had spoken to the Minister and mat no further statements would be made on foreign affairs by Ministers of his Government except himself. 
Did the Ministers for Overseas Trade, Labour and Urban and Regional Development subsequently make strong statements. 
Have members of the Government a consistent foreign policy. 
asked the Prime 'Minister, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that in a despatch of press releases received by, Members on or about 30th January 1973 there were several pages of what appeared to be a transcript of an interview with either the Minister for Social Security or the Minister for Health which was without any heading or indication of who the questioner or answerer was. 
If so, will he ensure that in future all material sent to Members is properly headed and identified so that it is clear who is making a statement, who is answering a question and under whose authority it is being issued. 
and (2) It is not possible to establish whether such an oversight occurred in the manner described by the honourable member, but every care is taken to ensure that members receive material in proper condition. 
I thank the. House. That will collate them. I intend to persist with this subject of obtaining satisfactory answers to questions. If I cannot obtain satisfactory answers by putting questions on the notice paper, I will take other measures in the House. In question No. 131 I asked the Prime Minister to continue the former efficient practice of the early and complete mailing of Minister's Press releases to members of Parliament. The Prime Minister tried to maintain that what had happened was an oversight. I tell him now, although he. is not in the chamber at the moment, that Press releases are still late. On 10th March I received one dated 21st February. They are still not headed properly. There are plenty of duplications. They are packed higgledy piggledy in envelopes. I do not doubt that if there is duplication and disorder there are omissions. Surely a Government which is responsible to the people for a Budget of $ 10,000m can be 100 per cent efficient in a simple thing such as circularising Press releases, particularly with the tremendous staff that it has available to it. What hope is there for the proper conduct of the affairs of this country if the Government cannot handle such a simple thing?. 
The Minister for Labour answers questions which come within 2 categories - those which are arranged by him or of which he has been given prior notice by Labor supporters, to which he delivers at question time long prepared sermons which are full of bias and sanctimony, and those which come from other private members who are seeking information. Imagine the arrogance in the character and manner of a Minister who gives this answer to a question which seeks information in respect of the provisions of consent awards: 
If the honourable gentleman will try to contain himself until the Bill is introduced, all will be explained then. 
In answer to a complex question on prices and incomes he just said: 
The answers to the 3-pronged question are yes, yes, no. 
What arrogance is that? We know that, although the Minister has little judgment and although he is in an ideological strait-jacket of socialism, he has the experience and knowledge to answer; but he chooses to be contemptuous of members and of the Parliament. His answers to questions on notice are nothing short of an insult to the Parliament. 1 instance the answers that he has given to questions Nos 14, 15, 47 and 175. They are a disgrace. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard those 4 questions and answers. 
The Minister made no attempt to reply seriously or responsively to those questions. The Minister for Labour, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Leader of the House cannot speak in the House without using unnecessary insults and epithets and childishly venting their spleen. The Prime Minister particularly is noted for this. He is easily the worst offender. Those members who watch him at close quarters know that he just cannot help himself. Recently the Minister for Secondary Industry, in a procedure as prosaic as the tabling of a report, had to sneer and jibe. Who has ever seen him give a smile, except for a vacant twist like that of some 20th century Mephistopheles? 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has not been straight with this House. Recently he tabled a document which was prepared by the Secretary of . his Department. He tabled it without comment, making it clear to the House, by implication, that he accepted it. Only 2 hours later he was telling the Press that he had some reservations about it. The next day the newspapers were full of the story that 'Barnard rapped Tange on the knuckles'. The Minister denied that the next day, but we know where the story came from. What a farce! What is he prepared to say to the House? The Leader of the House, who is known well in this building for his great skill in manoeuvres both in and out of the House, is well on the way to creating a record for stifling the comments of private members by the use of the gag and the guillotine. The censure motion on which the Prime Minister permitted only 3 speakers to make- 
 Mr Speaker,  I was not intending to criticise you or your rulings in any way. I was criticising the Ministers. 
I am well aware of them. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an ordinary seaman on a rig service vessel is entitled to a wage of approximately $9,300 for 26 weeks work, and that the minimum available to a seaman is $6,700 for 32 weeks work. 
What are the wages to which seamen are entitled for each category provided in the award, and how many weeks work are involved. 
Will these cost levels make it difficult for any expansion of the Australian mercantile fleet to be economic. 
Has he carried out any examination into these matters; if so, with what result. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. I refer to the possible establishment of a station in south eastern Australia to complete the world network of the Omega navigational system. Is the Minister convinced that Omega would be of insignificant military assistance to United States submarines? 
I think it is appropriate - in any case this is the first opportunity since the last sitting week of the House - to review the first 100 days of this Government's existence. Who would have thought that in that short period there would have been such a dismal performance in the interests of the country and such bad behaviour as well. Let me commence by reading what I think is a very telling letter that was published in the 'Australian' newspaper. It states: 
Now being the anniversary of the Labor Government's first 100 days in office, I think it an apt time for a progressive analysis. In matters which concern me personally ( I'm 24 years old, single), I find little reason for rejoicing. I'm finding it far more expensive to live (food prices have risen astronomically), I had a long weekend ruined because of a petrol strike and I've been coerced into joining a union (fees $25). Besides this, I read that because of its vast spending spree (aid to North Vietnam, jobs for the boys, pay rises for MPs), the Government will probably be forced to increase taxation in the coming Budget. Guess who'll be paying? But apart from all this, the Labor Government, in my books, has made one serious blunder - freeing draft resisters. To me and thousands of other national servicemen who did what we were asked to do this came as a personal affront. It is a stigma now deeply branded into the hide of the Labor Government- and deeply embedded in the minds of the voters. 
I want to commence by saying that this Government has by its behaviour lost the confidence of nations around the world. I refer particularly to our relations with the United States. Intemperate, insulting statements have been made by Ministers about our friend. They have been suited to street corner debate rather than being statements that one could properly expect to come from Australian ministers of State. That was an apt description given by the 'Sydney Morning Herald*. We are used to it here but it deeply insulted President Nixon and his government. ANZUS is our primary defence treaty and anyone who damages it in any way damages Australia's national interests. Under the heading of confidence, what has been done to the Government's reputation and this country's reputation in respect of the United States bases in this country? Let us be certain, the left wing of the Labor Party is still very much opposed to the attitude the Government has taken, and we have not heard the end of that yet. Damage has been done to Australia's reputation in financial matters in respect of the long term commitments entered into by the mining companies around the world. 
Damage has been done to the reputation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, which other countries and our friends are entitled to rely on when they give Australia help in military intelligence. What the Prime Minister has done as Minister for Foreign Affairs has been not only a mishandling of principles; the fact is that in the way things have been done the very style has been wrong. It has induced a lack of confidence in this country. The character of his international dealings has been such that we have lost the trust of our friends. Many Ministers of his Government make statements apparently without reference to him. Indeed the Prime Minister himself has admitted that there has ben a lack of consultation on questions regarding the currency and in foreign affairs where a number of Ministers have expressed themselves in harsh terms. The Prime Minister has said in  a  number of speeches that Australia would have a new way and yet he has not spelt out what that new way will be and so it is obvious that the United States of America, Britain and our Asian neighbours should have severe doubts about what our new policies will be - in other words, a breakdown in confidence without any counter-balancing advantage to our national interests. I quote part of an editorial in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 22nd March 1973. I allude to the style of the Prime Minister. The article read: 

 Mr Whitlam chose a strange time and place - a private dinner in Canberra last night in honour of the Yugoslav Prime Minister,  Mr Bijedic  - to attack the previous Federal Government for its complacency over Croatian terrorist activities in Australia. Most people would have thought that Parliament was the proper place for such comments. . . . 
The article later stated: 
The main thing to emerge from his remarks last night was his firm support for  Senator Murphy's  highly publicised confrontation with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Melbourne last Friday. Until the Canberra dinner he had been almost completely silent on the matter, but now he has not only backed the  Senator (and  his posse of Commonwealth police) but has forecast a- major restructuring of ASIO. Whether this, last night, was a matter of passionate interest to  Mr Bijedic  must remain a matter for conjecture. Locally, however, there are still plenty of unanswered questions. 
This is again damage without advantage. The Prime Minister took with some glee the decision with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make a unilateral revaluation of the Australian currency. He later admitted under questioning that there had been no consultations with the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  No consultation took place. Why not? Does he not trust them or do they not trust him? Surely to heaven these men who have responsibilities on behalf of important sectors of the Australian economy and Australian people have a right to be heard. The future of many Australians is involved. 
We saw, too, the setting up by this Prime Minister of a 2-man government - Australia's first 2-man government. Many decisions were made by that Goverment, most of them unjustified as to their urgency. Why were there only 2 Ministers and not 4 - including the 2 leaders from the Senate? That, surely, was a calculated snub of the Leader of the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  as was pointed out by  Mr Max  Walsh of the 'Financial Review' in an article on 5th January. That use of dic- tatorial power, albeit for a short period, is un-Australian and should never be repeated in the history of this country. 
We have had coming up, particularly in the last few says, the question of the establishment of an Omega station in Australia. I was interested to hear the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who has 5 portfolios - a regular Pooh-Bah in Australian politics. He shuffled around in answer to the question I asked him but he ended up supporting the view that the Omega Station will be no defence hazard. I take this opportunity of putting on the record, because the Prime Minister places such importance on the transcript of his Press conferences - indeed there is evidence he regards them as official documents, but I do not have time to deal with that aspect now - his answers to questions addressed to him at the Press conference on 13th March. The record of that conference includes the following: 
Q.:  Mr Whitlam,  until 101 days ago when Labor was in Opposition, Labor members spoke frequently about the defence significance of Omega. I remember  Mr Barnard  giving a learned exposition on how it could be used by nuclear submarines. Now when we contact  Mr Barnard's  office we are told that it is purely a matter for  Mr Jones. 
PRIME MINISTER: That's right. 
Q.: When we talk to  Mr Jones,  we are told he doesn't want to talk about it. Will you tell us what your Government's attitude is to Omega - what's going to happen about it, and do you expect any problems within the Party over this? 
PRIME MINISTER: It is a matter for  Mr Jones  and his Department. There are no submissions from him on the subject. 
Q.: Is it of defence significance, Sir? 
PRIME MINISTER: I would believe it would have some defence significance. But I frankly don't know enough about it. 
This, in spite of his comments before the election. The Prime Minister continued: 
I'm leaving it to him to brief me. But, as rational men, you will know that there are very few navigational aids which don't have some defence significance. 
Q.:  Mr Barnard  in the past has been quite outspoken about lt. You don't feel that if perhaps, as the expert in what's now the Cabinet, he should be consulted on this? 
PRIME MINISTER: He has responsibilities in defence matters. This is primarily, as far as I concern myself with it, a navigational matter. 
Q.: You agree with the previous government? 
PRIME MINISTER: As far as I know, this is primarily, a navigational matter. It will be taken up by  Mr Jones  if it is taken up at all. 
Minister about Omega. After the decision last weekend in Melbourne, of which we are aware, I hope that this comment made by the Prime Minister receives the widest publicity in order to see whether he renegues on his previous decision. I have been talking about the lack of trust which people have been encouraged to have in this Government. 
I refer briefly to some other issues, including the fiasco of the Government's dealing with the troops in Singapore. The Opposition rightly moved to censure the Government in this matter and moved the motion which, as close observers noted, the Prime Minister did not attempt to answer directly. Indeed he connived with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting at the table, to gag the debate after 3 speakers on the ground that there would be plenty of time for people to express their opposition during the AddressinReply debate. But, of course, the Leader of the House gagged that debate when 16 Liberal speakers alone wished to make contributions to the proceedings of this House. So much for the contradiction by the  Prime Minister. In that debate - I think this is of particular importance - he admitted, and no evidence can be better than personal admission, having given a secret briefing to certain journalists involving matters which were highly classified. 
Reviewing again the performance of this Government, the Cabinet's mutual admiration society wore off around about the end of last month. We remember the decision made about the export of merino rams when the Government decided to allow 30 merino rams to be exported and the Prime Minister - this is another piece of evidence - tried at a Press conference to hide the breach of Australian Labor Party's policy in consequence. I would say that that is evidence of his desire to fool the journalists and the people, yet this is a Prime Minister who claims to favour open government. 
I come to the question of the recognition of China. I do not disagree in principle with that recognition but the point is at what price was it given. The Prime Minister has been most evasive and uncommunicative in answering questions on that matter. However every person who lives in the real world knows that when anyone is making an agreement with somebody he does not give away his position and promise that he will make that agreement in advance because a recognition involves a number of points given and points accepted - a number of conditions. It has never been satisfactorily answered by the Prime Minister or by his Government as to what conditions Australia gave in receipt of normalising diplomatic relations. We were told that we had to give up all contact with Taiwan- 
And $80m of trade as my colleague says, and I am pleased to call the honourable member my colleague. But let me point out that the United States which has made an accommodation with the People's Republic of China - that is, Peking - has retained an accommodation with Taiwan. Tt has de facto relations with the People's Republic of China but each has liaison officers with full relations with Taiwan. Canada simply found a formula of noting the position of the People's Republic of China in Taiwan and retained a neutral position. Why could not Australia have done that? Why did we give away so much? The point is that the Prime Minister's method of dealing is not in Australia's interest.' He barges in. He has done the same in New Guinea over the last few years and it remains still to be seen whether the- policy that he has advocated turns out to be really in the interests, of either Papua New Guinea or Australia. 
I come to the lack of economic, responsibility of this Government with, overspending meaning a deficit building-up, I would predict, to at least $ 1,000m in this fiscal year. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Prime Minister are now eating their words relating to the economy on the predictions they made before the election about the level of unemployment as it would be today. The Government has, as a part of that economic overspending, increased to 35 the number of Government departments in Canberra. I will quote a small extract from the 'Sunday Independent' of 7th January. The article is entitled 'Government Jobs to Cost us $35 Million'. It reads: 
The Australian taxpayer will be hit with a $35m backlash from the  Federal  Labor Party's new-look Government. 
Creation of 16 new departments has sparked  a  scramble by public servants for plum jobs, many carrying wages above $16,000 a year. ' 
The $35m cost estimate is considered conservative. 
Under the new Labor Government there are 37 ministries, 10 more than under the McMahon Government. 
The Prime Minister, of course, occupies 2 of these positions. He is the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs as well as Prime Minister. How can a man properly carry out the high offices of Prime Minister of Australia and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Australia? It is impossible. Anybody who has occupied either of those offices in recent times knows of the enormous work load and the enormous responsibility. I am not worried about the work load on the Prime Minister. I am worried that he cannot do it properly in the interests of the Australian people. But he is trying. There are hundreds of cables received on foreign affairs alone in this country and they need to be read if our policy and interests are to be maintained. But in his role as the great diplomat to which my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy referred he - and he is most ambitious in this field - has in the short time he has occupied that office insulted the  President  of the United States - there can bc no doubt about that; he has set his people to undercut a senior Minister of the Malaysian Government - a friend of ours; he has made disparaging remarks about the Government of Thailand, for which he has been chastised. What sort of record is that? Educated people, thinking people, rely on the movements and attitudes of Australia or any other country over a period. They expect us to be stable and to treat our friends as friends and not just rush off in some direction with a halfbaked scheme or to make lightheartedly some jibe or insult. That is no way to pursue the interests of Australia or indeed to further world peace. 
I come now to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who is also Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply. I regret that I will not have time to list all these matters. But the Minister for Defence occupies 5 portfolios. How ridiculous can you be? What a silly position he found himself in with the departure of his former Press secretary. The position was, I think as cogently as it can be stated, that one minute the Press secretary resigned and the next minute the Minister for Defence said to him: 'No, do not resign next week, go now'. And then he said: 'But I don't know the reason why he left'. We have not heard the full story on this. I conclude by reading paragraph 14 of the minute obtained from the Secretary of the Defence Department and tabled in this House by the Minister and which I believe will repay careful study. It reads: 
If the failure to inform you - 
That is the Minister -  that I had had your decision actually disseminated has misled you into believing that nothing had been conveyed to  Mr Lloyd,  I must apologise. I took it for granted, perhaps wrongly, that you would understand that your decision had to be conveyed to people for practical reasons associated with the seating arrangements and the like. 
There is a whole depth of meaning in that which repays study to us all. I will not go on in detail now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
About an hour ago I was engaged in making some comments about the record of this Government in its first 100 days of office. I took the opportunity presented by the debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1973. Unfortunately there was not enough time allotted to me in which to list all the misdemeanours of this Government and I propose to mention a few more in the time that is now available to me in the adjournment debate. I was in the midst of explaining that we had the incident that has become known as the Barnard affair. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  had this strange separation from his Press Secretary and instilled into the position of the Minister are certain elements. He maintains that his Press Secretary notified him of his intention to resign the following week. The Minister said to him: 'No, leave this week'. However, he later claimed that he had no idea why the Press Secretary left him. I pointed out in my earlier remarks that this is a very strange matter and I drew attention in particular to a very telling paragraph in the document supplied by the Secretary of the Department of Defence at the request of the Minister for Defence. It would repay study by honourable members. The importance of this matter to the Government is not  Mr Lloyd,  the Press Secretary; its importance is that it brings into question the whole competence, if that is the word and not the opposite to it, of the Minister for Defence. 
Another matter of importance in the conduct of this Government during its period in office is the allegiance which it has shown that it has to pay to the trade union movement. The 'Australian' on 26th February referred to 2 matters. The 'Australian' newspaper is an impeccable source so far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned, almost its authority and certainly a newspaper which is most favourable to the Government. The first matter was the statement by the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  of the new Government policy that government contracts are to be restricted to firms employing union members and firms which have good relations with the trade union movement. This is a policy which leaves out of consideration quality and price as determining features for the placing of government contracts and creates a situation in which the Minister or some public servant has to decide which companies get contracts but not on the basis of quality and price. So it opens the way to corruption, to trade union pimping and favouritism. The second reference was to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who tried to get a fourth week's annual leave given only to those public servants who are trade unionists. The 'Australian' in an editorial on 26th February condemned those policies. Imagine the Australian' condemning policies of the Labor Government! It said: 
The use of such power to enforce a principle of doubtful national significance seems indefensible. 
With that I heartily agree. The fact is that this Government understands that it has an obligation to the trade union movement irrespective of what is right in the Australian national interest and it is engaged in making the pay-offs. The Australian Labor Party rests four square on the trade union movement and is afraid to resist excessive demands. Indeed even in the reformed Australian Labor Party the trade union movement has some 60 per cent of votes. 
I come next to the oft-quoted mandate that the Government claims to have for everything in its policy speech. The whole concept of a mandate is fallacious, and the Prime Minister, who is a Queen's Counsel, knows much better than to try to maintain this fallacy. I challenge him to look up the references, the constitutional authorities, to see what they say about the concept of a mandate. It is quite clear that the concept is invalid. The Government must do, under our Constitution, what it believes is right, not what is in some policy document, and the Opposition must oppose what it believes is wrong. It is quite fallacious, quite incorrect and indeed dangerous for the Government or the Opposition to believe that a matter has been decided at the elections and cannot be opposed. I refer to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  his verbose and boring Press releases and his striving to make something newsworthy every day. He surely by now must have been through all the classic backgrounds and poses for photographs in newspapers. 
That may be. No doubt his lively imagination will ensure many more photographs. I refer next to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  whom I am pleased to see in the chamber. That has been quite a change for the Ministry this evening. So much has been heard from him and indeed from other Ministers about what would be done in the north. Let us face it: That Minister has been discredited by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and then by the Cabinet in a public squabble about his policies. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did his statements in 1972 and 1973 express his attitude that inflation is to be combated but on the other hand disclose his unwillingness to attribute excessive wage rises as any cause of inflation; if so, what investigations has he carried out as Treasurer into the causes of inflation and the means by which it can be resisted. 
What precise decision has he made to achieve  a  decrease in the rate of inflation. 
What are the intentions of the Government in its application to inflation in Australia at present. 
Does his examination indicate that adequate measures are at present being taken. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
When will he appoint the three commissioners to present new electorate boundaries for the State of Western Australia. 
Will he ensure that this is done without delay to prepare the way for a tenth seat in Western Australia. 
Will he also ensure that in appointing the third person, which is at his discretion under the provisions of the Electoral Act, he will choose a senior Commonwealth public servant, as was formerly done, in order clearly to establish complete independence from political parties of all the commissioners. 
During what month does he anticipate the proposed boundaries will be made public. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the great concern expressed by him and his colleagues about the effects of radiation from nuclear fall-out, will he have carried out a comparison of the amount of radiation received on the body of a person in Australia from the fall-out during the last 2 years and the radiation received by a person from the compulsory mass chest X-rays carried out; if so, will he inform the House of the results. 
Is the amount of radiation received from compulsory X-rays considered to be safe; if so, at what level is the amount of radiation considered to be unsafe. 
Is it proposed to modify, the compulsory X-ray requirement. 
Has consideration been given by the Government to making the X-ray scheme a voluntary one. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Is there any difficulty in the Commonwealth negotiating with adjacent countries on matters concerning the sea-bed and the continental shelf, when questions involving the rights of the Commonwealth and the States may be unresolved? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the present position concerning negotiations with Portugal on the sea-bed and continental shelf in the Timor Sea. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 The object of appointing a joint Parliamentary committee on prices is to make that committee part of the machinery that the Government wants to set up for prices justification in the community in order to inhibit price rises and thus reduce the rate of inflation and increase purchasing power. The Government and its trade union supporters believe that existing levels of prices are too high and that wage rises can be absorbed by companies very readily without damage to their investment policies and that price rises are indeed the cause of inflation. Government supporters have stated that wage and condition increases are justified and that they have little to do with inflation. Perhaps there are those who do not think so in Labor ranks but who are, nevertheless, not prepared to say so. 
Other countries with comparable economies to Australia's have imposed prices and incomes policies with restraints of a significant nature which have had a deep effect on all sections of their communities. It is arguable whether these policies will be of much value in the long term. But in the short term they seem to have been of considerable benefit in the United States of America. This Australian Government's policy is directed entirely at one side - that of prices. There has been no mention of wage restraint, although references are made from time to time to the arbitration system, implying that some sort of control of wages exists. Indeed, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made such an implication in answer to a question as recently as 2 weeks ago at a meeting in Melbourne. But, of course, the arbitration system is not a control on wages - on maximums. It only sets minimums of amounts and conditions. Furthermore, the policies of the present Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  are encouraging more collective bargaining agreements outside the arbitration system which, of course, weaken the system and lead to excessive wage and condition increases on top of the increases allowed by the arbitral authorities. Indeed, this policy has a greater effect than that because collective agreements do not involve only the immediate rises. They also have an impact on the whole range of arbitration decisions because clearly the Arbitration Courts try to keep up with outside increases or else they will lose their influence. Thus a few collective bargains can mean a big overall change. 
It seems odd that at the moment when other Western countries are trying hard to find new institutions to implement prices and income policies as a means of stopping or inhibiting inflation rises, the Australian Government should bring more and more pressures to bear on the arbitration institution, and indeed one gets the impression and idea that the Government wants to dismantle it; when it is the only means of restraining wages. Just what powers are open to a Commonwealth government to control prices and wages? This is a matter of considerable concern and legal complexity in this country. However, those countries which have no legal difficulties in regard to controlling prices and wages do not seem to have found the use of a prices and income policy to have in the result greatly inhibited the rate of inflation which, after all, has been prevalent overseas for the last 3 years or so and which came to Australia somewhat later on, and until recently in a less virulent form. Many Labor supporters have called for price control. But the Government's present policy is to form a prices justification tribunal and a joint parliamentary committee on prices. It is apparently its belief that there are enough prices which are unjustifiable to make public knowledge of the details result in fewer and lesser rises. But can that be generally sustained? We know that during the war there was price and manpower control under the national emergency regulations and that sustained efforts Were made to control all aspects of the economy. The result of this was, firstly, a great bureaucracy investigating the books of every firm in the country, and incidentally those many inspectors who were overzealous and seemed to delight in unreasonable behaviour; secondly, the formation of black markets and/ or hidden cash payments; and, thirdly, constant price rises. 
A further strong argument against a prices justification policy is that in many areas justification of price is relatively easy. Indeed, the endorsed price takes on an official aura which allows those who are clever in justification to apply for more rises than they otherwise would be able to carry out. This surely discourages a search for increased efficiency since it reduces cost pressures and even competition. The Government's concentration on prices and the exclusion of wage control is in essence an irresponsible attack on a section of the economy because it ignores the other essential sector which would give the whole scheme any chance of success. Clearly the Government has put forward this proposal because it is not prepared to face the criticism and to contest the ambition of leaders of the trade union movement. The Government's proposal is political grandstanding and a sham of a policy because a greater number of economists in Australia and outside Australia who have knowledge of Australian conditions would advise the need for a joint prices and incomes policy. Effective responsible policies must involve both wages and prices. 
The first report on Australia by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - an objective, detached body of the highest competence - referred to by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  makes that assertion clear. Incomes and prices policies of restraint are of the highest economic complexity. To be effective as part of the Government's policy, employing all the economic tools, available to a government, both fiscal and monetary, requires the most skilful management by any government. Yet it is most necessary if the objectives of higher eco nomic growth, lower rates of inflation and even lower rates of unemployment are to be achieved instead of just being talked about. AH political parties here are agreed that these are important objectives, so to say that all that is needed is a justification of prices policy in this area is not a serious attempt to tackle the problem. 
The Government has failed completely, today and previously, to make a case to demonstrate that this parliamentary committee will be effective in any way. It is only propaganda. One recalls a similar type of proposal being put forward by the last British Labour Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, in his first year of his Labour government, speaking of the need for the United Kingdom to increase its growth rate. He merely urged greater efficiency. That was all nonsense. It was laughed at at the time, and the growth rate did not go up. Nor will prices go down under this measure. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  not noted for an interest in economics let alone an understanding of it, has made scathing comments from time to time about economic management as the use of stop-go policy. He has implied that the Government can plan the economy, foresee all the influences, and efficiently ensure smoothness. Does that mean that he will ignore the tools of control in his hands for greater growth, for diminishing inflation and for encouraging investment and employment and use those tools he has, such as interest rates, levels of government expenditure, the level of raising revenue and directing it into particular sectors, currency rate variation, bank lending through the Reserve Bank, variations in the flow of foreign investment, and all the influences and control available to the Government and its instrumentalities? The answer is that he has already used some of those tools. They are essential to economic management, and it is complete nonsense to pretend that they will not have to be invoked, sometimes suddenly. As a former Prime Minister of Britain once so aptly answered to a gibe about stop-go policies, 'How else can you drive a car in busy traffic?' 
To make a general observation, it seems to me to be tragic and ironic that, while this Government has expressed its intention - most formally recently in the speech it wrote for the Governor-General's Address - to initiate policies for greater growth and employment and less inflation, all its policies are aimed in the oppoosite direction. Although it has revalued the Australian dollar in a deliberate unilateral act, all its policies internally have the effect of reducing the value of the Australian dollar. Successive wage rises are supported by the Government, tacitly or directly, no matter what quantity they are. There is no regard for whether the productivity increase is sufficient to meet them. In reality no steps have been taken to improve productivity. The Australian Labor Party, led in this instance by its Minister for Labour, is encouraging collective bargaining, encouraging firms to give 4 weeks annual leavel, encouraging a rise in the minimum wage and encouraging the spread of the 35-hour week. The claims go right across the board. The Government complains about mineral export prices being too low, but promptly revalues the dollar - deliberately once and later by acquiescence - against the United States dollar and reduces export prices by 20 per cent within 6 weeks. 
It is most pertinent to this debate to note the recent re-statement by  Mr Justice  Kirby - he quoted the late  Mr Justice  Dixon - in support of his view that the arbitral authorities cannot and will not accept any responsibility for economic management in making their awards and determinations. He said unequivocally that that is the duty of the government of the day. That has not always been the attitude of the courts but if it is to be the attitude throughout, I believe that the Party which I represent, which has always, had a policy of supporting awards and determinations of the arbitral authorities, believing that the handling of disputes is best left to arbitration and conciliation, may have to review that policy and outlook. 
Times are changing. We have an unacceptable rate of inflation. In view of the overspending and other policies of this Government, I have no hesitation in predicting an increased rate of inflation to an even more unacceptable level of perhaps  Si  per cent or 9 per cent within the next 18 months. The impact of the decisions of arbitral authorities is not insignificant in this and the Commonwealth Government has a limited number of options open to it in controlling the economy. It has by no means full power over wages, yet the Australian people look to it alone to provide stability, growth and opportunity. It is long since settled that the Commonwealth is responsible for that policy. In future Commonwealth governments will have to imple ment effective prices and incomes policies. In seeking ways to combat the awful attrition of unacceptable inflation which we have seen in comparable economies in Europe and North America, perhaps that attitude I referred to of my Party towards awards and determinations cannot be sustained. If it is the judgment that a particular comprehensive set of prices and wages policies of restraint will have a beneficial effect in the areas I have mentioned, apprehension about all government involvement in the private sector becomes less and less a philosophical problem for me. 
The foreshadowed rise in the March quarter of the consumer price index is at an annual rate rising from 6 per cent to 8 per cent. But the restraint on the inflationary pressure through the revaluation of the dollar must be recognised to be quite minor. A parliamentary committee or any other committee will have to solve some very thorny issues before criteria can be laid down for determining whether any price rise is justified. The Government has not laid down any target for price increases. The full problems of inflation, and growth equity will emerge in the next year or two. I believe they are the greatest of our economic problems. This motion of the Government is mere window dressing, an insult to serious consideration and is inconsistent with its policies of vast spending without increased productivity in which it is at present engaged. Its new policies exacerbate the difficulties and bring us closer to a more tragic economic condition. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of servicemen re-engaged on completion of initial engagement in each of the Services during (i) 1970-71 and (ii) 1971- 72. 
For what period did they re-engage. (Hansard, 25th September 1970, page 1756 and 30th September 1971. page 1833). 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What percentage of married personnel in each of the Services was required to move between locations during (a) 1970-71 and (b) 1971-72. (Hansard 21st March 1972, page 947). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many veterans of (a) the Boer War and (b) World War I are still alive. 
What would be the cost of extending repatriation benefits to all survivors. 
Does the Government regard this figure as being beyond its resources: if not, will it extend repatriation benefits to all survivors. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the daily number of flights in and out of Perth Airport in January 1973. 
What percentage of take-offs and landings took place in the various directions available for (a) inter.ternational flights and (b) domestic flights. 
asked the Minister for External 
Territories, upon notice: 
What was the (a) nature and (b) extent of assistance for Papua New Guinea by all United Nations bodies in 1971 (Hansard, 17th August 1971, page 151 and 6th October 1971, page 2001). 
What was the (a) nature and (b) extent of assistance for Papua New Guinea under the Commonwealth Co-operation in Education Scheme and other Commonwealth programs in 1971 (Hansard, 6th May 1971, page 2842). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of his statements that Commonwealth taxation increases will not be necessary to finance the many proposals of the Government which involve increased expenditure because sufficient increased revenue will be raised from growth in incomes and turnover, will he state (a) the estimated increase in expenditure as a result of decisions made and (b) the estimated increase in revenue for each month to 30th June 1974, so that these estimates can be compared with the actual figures when they become known. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  as is his wont, indulged in a good deal of abuse in order to cover up the policies - or lack of them - of his Government. I read in the 'Nation Review' the other day a description of the Minister. It said that he was a rigid, doctrinaire, class warfare man. That is a left wing journal; so I suppose one must accept the truth of its assertions. I would say, from what the Minister has just told us, that that somewhat rude statement has been borne out. In his remarks he was all over the place but, as I said, typically abusive. He chided my colleague, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  for not mentioning the energy crisis. That is something we naturally accept. It is a world-wide fact. The question is how this Minister and this Government deal with it. 
The subject of this discussion of a matter of public importance is 'the damage done to the Austraiian mining industry by recent decisions and statements of the Commonwealth 
Government'. The Opposition says that that damage is evident. If the Government continues on its present course, its dealing on behalf of Australia, with the energy crisis and the resources we have will not be in Australia's interest or in the interests of anybody else. The Minister has shown himself to be doctrinaire, rigid and I would add narrow. For instance, he has been fond of chiding Opposition speakers and mining representatives for stating that it was necessary to draw up certain contracts in United States dollars, particularly in the middle of the last decade. He chided the former Government for not having a currency that was big enough to stand on its own in the world scene. This is an international financial matter. It is not one with which any particular government can deal. But in the same breath he told us that we ought to have such a currency because Australia is the twelfth largest trading nation in the world. Insofar as any government is able to take the credit, surely the two go hand in hand. 
Let me answer the assertion quickly because I do not have much time. It was essential and fundamental for these companies to draw their contracts in United States dollars because they were in the main, financed by the United States banks which have a natural nationalistic tendency to express contracts in their own currency. They were drawn up at a time when there was a buyers' market in ironare there still is and the Japanese demanded it. There was no shortage of iron ore. The fact remains that if the contracts had not been negotiated in United States dollars there would have been no contracts and there would not have been a single project. The important thing to do in this matter is to point out that the Government is not many relying on the advantage of hindsight in making such assertions; it is making a deliberate political ploy. It must rest on the basis of this assertion because otherwise the Government would be to blame. In spite of all the facts honourable members opposite will go on making this assertion. In the result this an admission of how weak their case is. 
The mining industry in Australia has been the most successful industry in the Australian economy in recent times and has given Australians the opportunity to obtain one of the highest standards of living in the world. The mining of years ago and the more recent ventures have provided a national wealth which, together with that provided by the other important sectors rural and manufacturing production has ensured a standard of living that in economic terms is among the highest in the world. In the last few months this Government has inflicted severe structural damage on the mining industry. While the Government is in a position to lessen that structural damage, it has failed to do so. To reasonable observers there must be a strong suspicion that Labor antagonism towards the mining companies has played a large part in the damage that has been done. A number of Ministers and Government supporters have expressed over a period of years a phobia on foreign ownership in the industry, a phobia on the scale of production, a phobia on the profits made, irrespective of the high capital investment, and a phobia on the level of royalties paid. It amounts to a phobia on the very existence of the mining companies. 
The Labor Party seems to be blind to the benefits to Australia of these industries, particularly the new ones. The Government desires to ignore the great risk which was taken by the companies at the time of their establishment and the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars mostly borrowed money on new ports, new towns, new railway lines and all the superstructure necessary in remote regions. If these projects had failed the Commonwealth would have lost nothing, but when they made profits the Commonwealth received about half of them in taxation and the States received royalties. They provided then and provide today a decentralised industry, employment opportunities and significant export income which changed our balance of payments from an unfavourable to a favourable balance. 
These were tremendously important industries to our national wealth. They were successful. They operated without protection and with great economies of scale. The industries are capital intensive. Such huge capital could not have been obtained within Australia. They have high productivity and growth. It is by no means clear that Australia is better served by not allowing these industries to run ahead unfettered. So many doubts have been expressed by Ministers and others as to the efficiency of Australian manufacturing and rural industries that it seems incredible that this Government can accept and encourage such structural damage to our mining industry. It is important to realise that the newer mining ventures were contracted and financed on a long term development with consequent stability for the communities created and employment. It was believed that the days were gone when future mining ghost towns were acceptable. Former governments encouraged the structure of these industries, which borrowed long term on the basis of obtaining initial contracts of such magnitude that the loans raised for the building of the structural assets would be repaid and an adequate return on the capital investment achieved to attract investors who would not otherwise have made their funds and expertise available. 
This Government has changed all that by a deliberate revaluation and by its decision not to change the relationship of the Australian dollar to the American dollar when it was devalued. It has thus allowed a loss of revenue of 20 per cent to occur within 6 weeks. The magnitude of that amount is such that it has to be reckoned in hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue to those companies, with offsetting costs of a little over 10 per cent. It was only after the second of these currency jolts that the Government made any move to approach the Japanese Government to endeavour to soften the blow. When considering the loss sustained as a result of our currency change we must look to the relative change not of our trading partners, as referred to in the statement issued by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 14th February, but of our competitors - in this case Canada and Brazil which both devalued with the United States dollar. At the time the Americans devalued there was a last minute chance for the Government to ask the Japanese Government, through its steel industry, to soften the blow on Australia's iron ore companies since it would not have been in the interests of Japan for Australia to have devalued. There is no sign that the Government did so. Likewise, in other areas and types of mining the Government has neglected giving assistance and provided no leadership. 
Surely the Government has a responsibility to make changes slowly where an industry has been encouraged by governments, must abide by the rules laid down and has been forced to take long term positions. This industry offers a great future and support for Australia. Yet it is one which the Government is prepared to damage structurally. One does not have to read very far to note many Labor expressions of anger towards the mining companies and the implication that it does not matter if they are hurt because they are big business, even though it means a loss to Australia and all Australians now and in the future. 
asked the Minister for Overseas 
Trade, upon notice: 
Have estimates been made of the drop in trade between the United Kingdom and Australia as a result of the United Kingdom Government placing import levies on a range of Australian products. 
What is the total value of import levies placed on Australian products by the United Kingdom Government to date. 
What are the matching levies that have been placed by the Australian Government on United Kingdom imports to offset the unilateral action of the United Kingdom Government. 
DrJ. F. Cairns - The following is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The import levy arrangements operated by the British Government in recent years on eggs and egg products, cereals, beef and veal, poultry meat and milk products, other than butter or cheese, were terminated on 31st January 1973. These arrangements provided for the imposition of levies on imports into Britain under certain conditions. In the case of Australia, levies, insofar as I am aware, were applied only to some cereals. Fluctuations in British imports of cereal products could be caused by a variety of factors and it is not possible to isolate the effect of the levies. 
As from 1st February 1973 Britain adopted the European Economic Community's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) which provides for the application of variable general levies to most agricultural commodities in certain circumstances. No estimate has been made of the drop in trade between Britain and Australia which might occur as a result of the imposition of these levies which will be a consequence of the application of the CAP. Table 1 shows the value of principal Australian exports to Britain in 1971-72 liable to variable import levies. 
Information on the total value of import levies placed on Australian products under the British levy arrangements has not been published by British authorities in respect of imports either before or after the adoption of the CAP. 
It is my understanding that the previous Australian Government held consultations with the British Government concerning the implications of the preCAP levy schemes for Australian trade from the time that they were initially proposed and that no compensating action was taken. 
In respect of Britain's adoption of the EEC's CAP, the EEC has recognised that problems could arise for exports to Britain of agricultural commodities from third countries, including Australia, in Protocol No. 16 to the Treaty of Accession, the 'Safeguards Clause', which provides for steps to deal with such problems. Australia has used the 'Safeguards Clause' as a basis for a series of detailed discussions with Britain and other EEC Members. In these discussions Australia has been seeking to identify the nature of the problems which might arise for particular commodities and to suggest possible solutions. The next round of discussions is programmed to take place in about May this year. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
What salaries and allowances have been paid to him and each of his Ministers since they were sworn in. 
Is it a fact that all Ministers receive the same salary and allowances. 
If senior Ministers receive the same as junior Ministers, what legal authority or device was used to effect this. 
Will gift duty be payable by any Minister. 
How is their liability under the income tax law to be resolved. 
asked the Minister for Second  ary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the details of the sum that has been loaned to or invested by the Australian Industry Development Corporation to 31st December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What arrangements has he made for special schools for handicapped children to receive assistance under Commonwealth education programs. 
What sum has been made available and spent in each year for special schools for handicapped children in (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Mas he carried out any examination into the provision of special schools for handicapped children and granting of assistance under Commonwealth education programs. 
If so, what are the details, including the basis on which the assistance is available in each case. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to my question No. 134 (Hansard, 1st March 1973, page 196) that he signed substantive replies to letters which honourable members sent. 
Did he also state in reply to part (2) of my question No. 227 (Hansard, 13th March 1973, page 535) that a communication was signed by  Dr Wilenski  or  Dr Wilenski's  secretary. 
If so, is there an inconsistency in his 2 replies. 
Will he give an assurance that he will sign all substantive replies sent by him to members and senators. 
Will he, as Leader of his Government, ensure that his Ministers do the same as part of the proper conduct of Parliamentary affairs. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many of each of the following newspapers, periodicals, etc. are purchased by Ministers' offices, Commonwealth departments, authorities and instrumentalities: (a) Sydney Morning Herald, (b) Daily Telegraph, (c) The Age, (d) The Melbourne Sun, (e) The Australian, (f) The Australian Financial Review, (g) The Nation Review, (h) The Bulletin, (i) Things I Hear, (j) Inside Canberra, (k) The Observer, (1) Management Newsletter (m) The Western Intelligence Report, (n) Canberra Comments, (o) Canberra Survey, (p) Forecast, (q) Objective, (r) Money Matters, (s) Tariff Weekly and (t) Political Intelligence Weekly. 
asked the Minister for Hous ing, upon notice: 
How many houses were purchased throughout Australia during the last 2 years. 
How many of these houses were purchased through Government finance. 
How many home buyers were (a) under and (b) over 35 years of age. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the similar matters be referred to as an oversight in answer to my question No. 131 and the matters I referred to in question No. 132 are continuing (Hansard, 6th March 1973, page 276). 
If so, will he ensure that all material circulated by him or his Ministers is properly headed and identified and that all duplications and omissions are eliminated. 
Will he also ensure that all press releases are received by members within a few days of issue to the media, on the grounds that Members of Parliament are entitled to no less favourable treatment. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  gave his usual speech of cajolery and abuse of honourable members on this side of the chamber. He is a person who, in his present office, enjoys gagging debates in the chamber as much as possible. The Minister indicated a few moments ago that he was thinking of doing so with respect to the debate on this Bill. He was just, and is always fond of talking about numbers and bow he proposes to use them. Of course, it is numbers that this Bill is all about. I want to say, before getting on to the contents of clause 3 of the Bill, that the Minister for Services and Property, who takes great delight in stopping free speech in this chamber, never misses an opportunity to make a speech on any subject whenever he feels so inclined. 
Clause 3 has as its main ingredient a phrase which reads: 'but in no case shall the quota be departed from to a greater extent than one-tenth more or one-tenth less'. That, of course, is an attempt by the Minister and this Government to gerrymander the electoral system of this country by reducing the variance that can be made in the quota in providing numbers for electorates. We have heard from supporters of the Government during the time that this Bill has been debated an attempt to reconcile their slogan of 'one vote one value' with the fact that this Bill provides for a 10 per cent variation. The legislation which this Bill seeks to amend has provided for a 20 per cent variation since 1902 or 1903, which is a long time. Since that time the present variation has been recognised as being a fair one. 
It has been somewhat amusing for one to sit on this side of the chamber, to listen to supporters of the Government  -  I am looking at one honourable member in particular, but there were many others - and to try to reconcile the principle of one vote one value with the Government's desire in this Bill to reduce the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. It is perfectly obvious that there is no prin ciple involved in this matter but that there is only a desire; and that desire is to redraw the electoral boundaries of this country to the advantage of the Australian Labor Party. The Minister for Services and Property, when talking about the principle of one vote one value, said that 'on this question' that is what the Bill provides. Of course it does not. It provides for a 10 per cent variation, not for no variation. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  said that the Bill seeks to maximise the principle. That was a ridiculous comment. One honourable member  -  I think it is the one at whom I am looking at the moment - said something to the effect that this Bill was a big step along the way toward the principle of achieving the principle of one vote one value. It is patently obvious that the difference between 10 per cent and 20 per cent is no difference in principle. 
If the Government were to remove the variation altogether it could argue validly that a principle was involved. But it has not sought to do that. It has not sought to do so for a very good reason. Some of that good reason was mentioned by the Minister. Let me remind the Committee that some of it was also mentioned in the expert advice given to the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which brought down a report in 1959. Many Government supporters have mentioned that report. They have said that the Committee came down in favour of a 10 per cent variation. It was unfair of them not to mention that the Committee came down with such a report despite the advice of experts that it should recommend a 20 per cent variation. There can be no denying that an examination of the report and the Committee's proceedings will bear out that point 
In the few minutes available to me - unlike the unlimited time available to the Minister for Services and Property - I want to take up some of the comments that were made by the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  when the debate on this Bill was resumed on 29th March. It is with a little reluctance that I criticise his speech. But the assertions he made in relation to the electoral system of Western Australia and its relationship to the Commonwealth Act were just so far out that I invite honourable members to consider how genuine he was in what he had to say. The Minister for Education made some comments about the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to the voting qualifications in 
Western Australia. I presume that he was speaking of the past in referring to property qualifications in respect to the Upper House in Western Australia. One need only assert that there is a universal franchise there at present and that there has been for some years. It was introduced by a Liberal-Country Party coalition government and accepted without any dissent whatsoever by the Australian Labor Party. Because a constitutional amendment was involved it was not just  a  question of the proposition put forward being passed on the voices. A vote had to be taken. 
The Minister for Education drew a distinction between the malapportionment of electorates and gerrymandering. The Minister for Services and Property is busily talking to someone just now because he cannot, bear to be criticised and he said that what the Opposition had done as a government was to gerrymander. Let me quote what the Minister for Education had to say. I pay him all credit here. He said: 
I do not believe that the Liberal Party favours gerrymandering. 
So much for the Minister for Services and Property. 
The Minister for Education went on and made an extraordinary statement. He said: 
At the last State election in Western Australia the Liberal Party won 29.3 per cent of the vote, the Australian Country Party won 5 per cent of the vote and with 34.3 per cent of the vote between them, naturally they lost the election by only one seat. It was the greatest shock that I ever had because I did not believe that they could ever lose the election. 
This is a completely invalid argument because the Liberal Party and the Country Party did not contest all the seats in Western Australia. Partly because the Liberal Party was at that time in government in coalition with the Country Party, naturally it did not oppose at the election the Ministers of its coalition partner. I have not bad time to check on the absolute numbers, but it would appear from a glance that something like 14 Lower House electorates were not contested. I understand that the Labor Party contested almost all if not all seats. To take out figures only on the contested electorates and to build an argument on them is completely false. It was not only misleading but also, I am drawn to the conclusion, intended to be misleading. The Minister for Education went on to say:   the Country Party in Western Australia maintains the situation in which Lyla Elliott represents 80,000 people on the roll in the Upper House. You could get a line up of 8 Country Party seats to equal it. 
In other words, the Minister was comparing the number of electors on the roll of an Upper House seat with the number of electors on the roll of eight Lower House seats under a distribution for the Upper House agreed to without dissent by the Australian Labor Party in Western Australia. The Minister went on to say: 
In the Westminster system where there will be monopoly of power for that side which has the majority of seats, there is a very clear moral obligation to ensure, so far as it is humanly possible, that the side which has the majority of seats has had the majority of votes. 
That is fair enough, but the Minister then went on to talk about property qualifications. My colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  interjected and said that that was not an issue. He was quite right. There is no property consideration in issue here. The Minister then got a bit wild, as is his want, I am afraid, and said: 
If a country goes long enough in ensuring that its Parliament is unrepresentative, the issues go to the streets. 
Later on he said: 
If we make Parliament unrepresentative, sooner or later the issues will go to the streets. 
We are talking about a difference of between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. Surely it is a bit wild of the Minister for Education to try to show that this is unrepresentative and could go to the streets. The fact of the matter is this 20 per cent variation has been in the Act since 1902. The Labor Party believes that it will be to its advantage to change the variation to 10 per cent. I believe on examination, and I have given the matter very careful consideration, that remoteness and size should be factors supporting a greater percentage variation. I believe that 20 per cent is a reasonable variation. That is the reason why I oppose the Bill. 

 - Mr Chairman, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  made- 
Motion (by  .Mr Hansen)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he request his Ministers to discover the secret documents not published by the McMahon and previous Governments; if so, what is the list of the documents so discovered. 
Is it proposed that they should all be tabled; if not, why not in each case. 
Has the Treasury report on price control been completed; if so, is it regarded as such a document. 
Will he arrange for this document to be tabled in the House. 
Will he give an assurance that it is entirely a Treasury document without deletion or amendment. 
I agree with the remarks that have been made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and by my colleague, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury).  I will not go over the ground which they have covered, but 1 take this opportunity in this debate on what is an important finance Bill to refer to what ] believe is the principal economic problem facing this country. It is a problem which will grow as the days go by. I refer first to what  I  regard as the extravagant spending by this Government, not merely in the months that have passed since it took office, but also in the proposals which it has put forward and the programs which it has foreshadowed which will make a vast increase in expenditure. I make the basic point that any government has an economic responsibility to ensure that factors in the economy are balanced and that we do not allow, for instance, inflation to run away. The former Government, which has been criticised so much by this Government and its supporters because of its policies, would naturally have had great delight in spending money in many areas and directions. A government will not lose votes because it spends money. That is all too easy. 
The previous Government saw itself as having a responsibility in order to achieve a balance in the interests of the people oi this country because if inflation runs riot, as ] believe it is starting to do now, every person in the community suffers, and some more than others. My colleague the honourable member for Wentworth mentioned those on fixed incomes. Let us not forget the trade unionists who are in unions which are not in a position to bargain as strongly as are others and, therefore, their rises take place at a slower rate. They fall behind the average. All these people suffer from inflation. A budget, in fact any package of economic policy, is a compromise between, on the one hand, the amount that a government would like to spend and, on the other hand, the minimum amount that it must raise in taxation. That is a compromise, lt is a balancing. The amount of that balancing is most important. 1 have referred to the evil of inflation and to the people who are hit by it. There are some people in this country - some in business, some in other fields - who believe that they can live with inflation, that it will not hurt them and they can accommodate themselves to the situation. They are the favoured ones who feel the impact least. Every honourable member knows as I do that the people who are the most defenceless and the ones who need to be defended the most are those who most feel the effects of inflation. The inflation we have had in this country - perhaps we still have it; perhaps it has recently ceased to be the only type - has been a cost inflation. It has been caused by rising costs and mainly increases in wages. I do not know how many times I have heard Government supporters say that honourable members on this side have maintained that the inflation has been due always to wages. I do not believe I have heard anyone on this side make such an exaggerated statement. But I am saying I believe that the great majority of the economists would suppport that statement - that Australia has at present serious cost inflation moving at an increasing rate, and it has been caused mainly by excessive wage rises and by the cost of improved conditions. 
I believe that because of the extravagant spending of this Government to date and the proposed expenditure on its programs, we are about to add demand inflation to that cost inflation. Perhaps we have reached that state in the last few months. The figures that are to be published soon will indicate that. It will be either now or very soon. The Government's answer to this so far has been to mention one or two restraint policies, the most recent of which is the move towards a price justification policy. I will not go over all the ground which was traversed in the debate held in this House recently about why that is a one-sided policy. It is a one-sided policy because it makes no attack on excessive wage costs; it attacks only prices on the assumption that prices can be restrained because they are excessive. That is an assumption which has yet to be shown. 
That is a paper tiger, as m&gt; colleague has said. That point was made very strongly and, I believe, convincingly in the debate last week. I carefully pose this question: What policies of restraint on inflation has this Government imposed and what policies does it propose to impose? What are those policies? There are no policies of restraint on wages; none at all. We have heard suggested such policies as the abolition of restrictive trade practices and the so-called tariff review, although in this context it means a lowering of the tariff, not just a review. Those are very long term policies. In my view, in the main they are admirable ones in principle. I do not speak of the detail. But the effect of those policies will take a long time to be felt and we have in this country an urgent and an increasing problem. In this context we have had reference to revaluation. I clearly state, as unequivocally as I can, that I believe that the effect of revaluation on inflation in this country will prove to be negligible. Much has been said about its effect in order, 1 believe, to try to support the Government policy of revaluation. But I will not go into that subject in general. 
I take the opportunity to say that I have the highest respect for the personal integrity of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is now sitting at the table. It seems to me, however, that he has relegated this problem of inflation, which is growing in this country, to that of a second class problem because he has made a number of statements, the gist of which is that the Government will not let inflation prevent it from getting on with the welfare programs that it thinks are important. There are a large number of these programs and large amounts of money are being spent on them. He has said the level of inflation will not even - I think I am right in saying this - prevent the Government from making an income tax reform, and I presume the word 'reform' means lowering of income tax. So it seems to me that the Treasurer is saying that the problem of inflation is to be addressed after the Government has done those things it thinks ought to be done, and they are all things that will result in demand inflation being added to our existing excessive cost inflation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he answer each of the questions I put to him in Question No. 205 (Hansard, 6th March 1973, page 277) instead of referring me to an unofficial document in which answers to most of the questions do not appear. 
I second the motion. The motion concerns the right of the Opposition to speak on matters of public import, to question and to criticise. The Government, by the use of the gag - the motion that the question be now put - has, in respect of this matter and in respect of many other matters I submit, reduced to a minimum the right of members of the Opposition in this House to express a view, to question and to criticise. Indeed, the debate on the motion which was moved this afternoon, virtually without warning, was gagged by the Government. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension I was explaining that Standing Orders should be suspended so that the House can debate in full Order of the Day No. 9 on today's Notice Paper entitled 'Croatian Terrorism - Ministerial statement' - that is the name the Government gives the subject - 'Motion to take note of Paper: Resumption of debate . . .'. By the procedure that it has used the Government, virtually without notice this morning, has scrubbed this matter from the notice paper. This was a statement which the Government saw fit to introduce into this House and, one would have thought, it was a statement containing such matters of public interest as would deserve full debate, including debate by the Opposition in this House. The Government has gagged this debate. 
There are only 2 minutes left to me in which to speak but I want to say that the Government has done a good deal of gagging in this House over the last week or so. Today it gagged this debate after only 3 speakers on this side of the House when my party had a list of at least 15 members who wished to speak in the debate. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting here not paying much attention, is always denying the right of the Opposition to speak in this place by gagging debates but he always takes the opportunity to speak himself, not very pertinently or constructively but nevertheless he takes the time which he will not give to members of the Opposition for debate. The Opposition has the right to speak, to be heard, to question and to criticise. Goodness, before dinner we had the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  trying to make the fatuous point that if the Opposition wished to debate this matter further it could have it put on the notice paper as private members' business. He knows or ought to know full well that any member who gives notice of private members' business today cannot have it brought on in this House until next September. So much for that point. 
In view of the great build up given to this statement in the week before the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  made it in the Senate, one would have thought it touched 3 important areas of public interest in this country. Firstly, there was a question of terrorist organisations relating, as the AttorneyGeneral said, to Croatian movements. As has been shown by  Senator Greenwood  and by honourable members in this House, there has been no proof yet produced or charges laid in respect of that important matter. When proof is produced I for one and, I am sure, other members on the Opposition side will say that if those persons can be found guilty they ought to be punished within Australian law, and I emphasise 'Australian law'. But the real objective of this statement was to criticise the former Government and the former AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  in particular. It was a straight out attack on  Senator Greenwood  - that was the real objective of it - and  Senator Greenwood  has answered that attack in full. The third point and second important matter raised by the statement that the Opposition wants to debate and question is why this Government and the Attorney-General in particular have set out to destroy the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, its standing and effectiveness within Australia and its standing externally in relation to the trust which it had with the intelligence services of our allies, those countries with which we have been co-operating and which have been cooperating with us in the past. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Did he state that he will support wholeheartedly the principle that future wage awards should be made on the basis of a flat rate rather than percentage increase. 
Can he say whether other nations' governments have attempted to restrict wage adjustments to flat, all round rises; if so, with what result in each case. 
What representations has he received from the craft unions on this matter. 
Have representations been received from the Australian Council of Professional and Salaried Officers' Associations in particular; if so, what- was his response. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many licences were issued in Papua New Guinea in 1971 to (a) expatriates and (b) indigenes in each of the categories set out in his predecessors' answers on 9th March 1971 (Hansard, page 754) and 27th April 1971 (Hansard, page 21 18). 
What Minister, official or Board is responsible for issuing licences in each category. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the machinery which was set tip to implement, on an interim basis, the measures for the control of foreign take-overs, announced by the 'ben Prime Minister on 26th September 1972 and in respect of which interim legislation was passed by the Parliament in 1972, continued in operation. 
If not, what is the present machinery and how does it operate. 
How does the Government become aware that a foreign take-over is contemplated or in the course of being carried out. 
What foreign take-overs has the Government become aware of since 5th December 1972, and on what date did it become aware of each. 
Has each of these take-overs been considered. 
On which of them has no conclusion been reached. 
What foreign take-overs have been approved by the Government and on what date in each case. 
Who gave the final approval and what was the reason for the approval in each case. 
ls there a body which makes a recommendation and does the Minister ratify that recommendation. 
If so, has he yet made any amendment to a recommendation. 
If he has made an amendment to a recommendation, what was the amendment and on what date was it made. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What arrangements has he made for compensation or other assistance to those permanent Australian residents who are in receipt of pensions from the 
United Kingdom and who have suffered so much loss as a result of the currency rate changes. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
If ever there was a case of the pot calling the kettle black, it was the speech of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  who has just resumed his seat. I suppose that the honourable member for Bowman would be well to the fore in taking points of order in this place and making general criticisms of the procedures of the House. At any rate, he and his colleagues have had the doubtful honour of taking no fewer than 8 points of order during a speech which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  made the other day and which I think was of no more than 10 or 15 minutes duration. Of course that was a deliberate effort to prevent the Leader of the Opposition from making the point which he wished to make. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had an equal time in which to reply. I think that with the exception of myself he was not interrupted by anybody at all. So the honourable member for Bowman is the last honourable member who ought to come into this place and make such assertions. I simply place that comment on record lest the allegations he made go past without being put into context. A few minutes remain before the application of the guillotine motion which we have for the closure of business at 11 o'clock. This is a procedural arrangement which was introduced by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  under the Labor Government in order to stifle debate from this side of the House on the traditional adjournment motion. I want to touch on one or two matters. 
I assure the honourable member that I did not. I believe that this system is capable of abuse and indeed frequently receives abuse at the hands of Government supporters. As the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  raised the subject I shall deal with it in a little more detail than I intended. This is a device in order to cut down the number of gags which the Leader of the House would otherwise have to apply. He realises that in a debate when speakers are allowed 10 minutes and when there are only two or three minutes left it is unlikely that anyone from this side of the House will make a speech of such short duration, and so the House will adjourn sometimes with just a few minutes left for debate. This will be done without the use of the guillotine that evening. 
Towards the end of the session the Leader of the House will say that during this session the gags and the guillotines have been fewer. Of course he will have used this device in part to achieve that situation. 
I shall refer to one or two matters. When I was a member of the Government and, prior to that, when I was a supporter of it we used to hear a great deal from the present Prime Minister and members of the then Opposition about the length of time it took Ministers to reply to questions on notice. I point out to the Government supporters who are here tonight that a great number of questions which were put on the notice paper on 28th February - that is over 2 months ago - have yet to be answered. 
As my colleague says, in many cases it is an embarrassment to the Government to answer them. But there must be so many public servants in these departments that rarely would one officer have to deal with more than one question. I do not hesitate to say that if Ministers of the Government wished to answer questions quickly, fully and responsibly they could do it. They have not done it. Obviously they do not wish to hurry along their departments to supply this information. In answer to a question of mine the Prime Minister said that he knows the matter is important and that this is an important avenue from which members can obtain information. The Ministers of the Government who have responsibility for answering those questions ought to be ashamed of themselves. At an early date they ought to produce those answers so that in this House there will be a procedure whereby the answers are obtained quickly for the benefit of all honourable members. For my part I say to the House - I hope that I will not be misunderstood - that I endeavoured to have questions answered quickly. I believe that this is part of the good conduct of the House. The present Ministry ought to look at this area particularly after the criticisms which were made. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the amount of (a) revenue received from each State motor tax listed in the tables of the last Commonwealth Grants Commission report and (b) the collection cost relating to that revenue in each State. 
What is the amount of (a) revenue received from permit and licence fees imposed by the State for the carrying of passengers and freight by road and (b) the collection cost relating to that revenue in each State. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he give details of what the Government has done to reduce the rate of inflation in Australia, referred to in the first sentence of his answer to part (4) of my question No. 170 (Hansard, 27th March 1973, page 762). 
asked the  Prime  Minister,  upon  notice: 
Will he now provide separate answers to parts (1) to (5) of my question No. 128 (Hansard, 3rd April 1973, page 1034); if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
With which countries is Australia currently negotiating voluntary export restraint agreements on knitted shirts and outergarments and woven shirts, etc. 
What stage has been reached in the negotiations and is he satisfied with the progress made. 
Will any agreements reached achieve satisfactory protection for the Australian industries involved. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund now invested in debentures, shares and stocks listed on Australian stock exchanges. 
What avenues of investment are open to the Fund and what percentage of funds is invested in each category. 
What has been the percentage growth of the Fund in each of the last S years. 
What was the inflation rate in Australia during the same period. 
Does the Government regard the investment of the Fund as satisfactory to its members. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does he acknowledge the value to members of the parliamentary practice of obtaining information by placing questions on notice. 
If so, will he ensure that he and the Ministers of his Government make every effort to answer questions as fully and responsively as possible. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will know that the Minister for Immigration announced recently that 7 persons have been deported to Yugoslavia during part of the period of his Government. Will he determine the total number of persons deported to Yugoslavia by his Government? Will he, instruct the Australian Ambassador to Yugoslavia to establish beyond question that in each case the deportees have not been executed, have not been incarcerated for political crimes, or suspicion of them, and are being treated in accordance with the principles embodied in the Declaration of Human Rights? Will he advise the House as soon as possible of the result? 
I rise to a point of order, ls it not part of the Standing Orders of this House and its protocol that statements be made here separately from those made in the Senate? In replying to a question I asked about proceedings in the Senate, was it permissible for the Prime Minister to refer to the Senate Hansard as though it replied to my question when an examination of that Hansard shows no relevance to the main parts of the question I asked? 
I want to point out to the Government that it must face up to the structural damage which has been done to the mineral industries of this country. I raise the matter again today because there has been an opportunity of some weeks to see what the effect of the Government's policies on those industries has been. I refer particularly to industries in Western Australia and Queensland, but certainly to industries elsewhere in Australia. This matter affects the national interest because the impact of currency rate changes by the Government has run very deep. I repeat that it has caused structural and permanent damage. The Government made a unilateral revaluation of the currency. It further made a decision - although the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was inclined to say that it was not a decision - not to devalue the Australian currency at the time that the United States of America decided to devalue by 10 per cent. The Treasurer in his Press release of 14th February referred to the decision as not producing much net change in the effective exchange rate for the Australian dollar with its main trading partners. I point out to him that that misses the point. 
The point is the relationship with our competitors, and I refer particularly to Canada and Brazil which devalued with the United States dollar. It is not what has happened with our trading partners that is important. What is important is the people against whom we must compete. The actions of the Government, both in the short term and the long term, greatly affect the 2 less populous States of Western Australia and Queensland. I suggest that they are affected more than the Government seems to realise.. They will lose many hundreds of millions of dollars and handouts by the Government of Federal funds of the order of $5m, $10m, $15m or $20m will not nearly compensate in employment or in economic efficiency in those communities. So, I warn again some weeks after those events that the consequences for those States lead to inequities and to unjust treatment. There seems to me to be a strong indication that the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in particular show an interest, really, only in the 2 big cities of Sydney and Melbourne and are inclined to ignore economic influences - indeed, one gets the impression at times that the Prime Minister disdains to have much to do with economic matters - and to concentrate on the problems of those cities. I stand here this morning and say that the cities of Sydney and Melbourne have problems which need to be redressed by the Government but that other cities, communities and States also have rights and needs. ] take up again the furphy, because it is repeated so often, that the big mining companies ought not to have signed their contracts in United States dollars and I repeat that, in the circumstances of those days, it was impossible to write a large contract other than by tying it to United States dollars. If those contracts had not been written in that way there would have been no development, no contracts and not one new project, Yet the Government says again and again that the mining companies ought not to have tied their contracts to United States dollars because if the Government were to admit the reality, it must accept some of the blame, as indeed it must. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  when he was Acting Treasurer, went out of his way in this House to comment about resource allocation in Australia and what he thought should be done. He was quoted in the 'Australian Financial Review' as saying that the present resource allocation was not good. What justification in terms of that statement can there be for the action of the Government in damaging these great industries in Australia? I emphasise that the mining industries in Australia are - or were - among the most efficient industries, if not the most efficient, in this country. The present Government has for a long time gone out of its way to criticise the efficiency of areas of manufacturing and rural industry, but the rnining industry - the one industry which was capable of such great productivity, which was so capi tal intensive, which reversed an unfavourable balance of payments situation into a favourable one and which built up a high standard of living in this country - has now been damaged by this Government. Judging by remarks made by responsible Ministers, the Government apparently extracts some pleasure from this action. The Government's announced plan is to shore up the less efficient industries in the community, having caused this damage to the mining industry. 
This is a matter of national interest. I have referred in particular to the plight of the 2 States concerned because of the significant effect on the entire Australian economy. When one hears the intemperate language of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who appears to act with excessive aggression, it give serious doubts about the objectivity of his policies and, to me, creates considerable doubt about the fairness of those policies. One can understand the desire of this new Government, filled with its enthusiasms and with some release of frustration, to be progressive and to make changes. But one gets the impression at times that they are changes for their own sake. Through all of this activity to which I have referred this morning there has been an impetuousness in the statements which have been made, a lack of balance and, I believe, a clear impression that proposals are being made without calm thought and objectivity. The Government's actions and statements in respect of the mining industry in particular have been very damaging and the currency changes which were tremendously adverse to the mining industry, were the result of expressed government decision. I say that, even if the Treasurer, in respect of the second matter, tried to pretend that he had not made a decision but had simply allowed the currency to remain as it was when the whole world was considering what it would do in relation to the United States currency as a result of the United States decision - it has a decision. He said that because he did not want to consult his colleagues, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  in spite of the fact that they have great responsibilities to the Australian people and to this Parliament. But he did not consult them, as was clear, in making that great decision. 
With respect to the great iron ore developments and other developments which have taken place in this country in recent years, the 
Government failed to approach the Government of Japan, at the time it made these decisions. Indeed, I would say that it should have approached that Government before making the decisions because there were a few days when it had an opportunity to try to make some arrangements. The famous British economic journal, The Economist', in its latest edition referred to the unilateral revaluation as 'largely a political gambit'. What a condemnation is that from such an authoritative journal! 
Surely the mining industry and the much needed processing of minerals will, in future, provide opportunities for graduates from our universities and will in future create opportunities for enterprise, and for Australians, to justify the retention of our great and remote regions. Mining and processing give us very much opportunity nationally and, in particular, give an opportunity to the 2 less populous but larger States of the federation, Queensland and Western Australia. All States and the whole Australian nation and its interest are involved in this issue. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise for the 2 or 3 minutes that are left to draw the attention of the House, as one has tried to do by interjection on occasion, to the lack of full and responsive answers by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and Ministers of this Government to questions put at question time in this House by members of the Opposition. I think the House will simply have to hear more of this because the evasion that has been witnessed by us has been tremendous, and I protest on this occasion and I hope that the Opposition, if it continues, will take stronger action. It is all very well for the Prime Minister to come in here - he is a man with many abilities - and to wipe off the questions. It is all very well to assume that every one of them is asked for a Party political purpose. Members are entitled to receive information, given to the best of Ministers' ability, in reply to questions which they raise. 
Time and time again, particularly in the last few sitting weeks, we have seen a deliberate attempt to evade. That is put into some relief by the detailed transcripts of Press conferences which the Prime Minister is holding almost weekly, at which journalists sit about in some room - I do not know where it is - and put to him a number of questions. They have a number of advantages over members of Parliament; they are able to follow up some of their questions and they receive, on the whole, answers, and full answers, from which one can elicit some information. I compliment the Prime Minister on circulating those Press releases because we learn far more facts and Government reasoning from those transcripts than we do at question time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! It being 11 o'clock, the House stands adjourned until 1 1 a.m. tomorrow 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Can he provide a separate answer to each part of my question No. 142 (Hansard, 13th March 1973, page 533); if not, why not. 
Will he now give me an assuurance that neither he nor any member of his staff unofficially gave the media information that  Dr S.  Fitzgerald was to be appointed by him as Australia's Ambassador to the People's Republic of China, when he officially stated he could not announce the name of the Ambassador until the Chinese Government had agreed; if not, why not. 
Did the information reach the press by way of (a) unofficial advice by himself, (b) unofficial advice by a member of his staff, (c)  Dr Fitzgerald  or (d) the Chinese Government. 
Did he make inquiries of each of his staff before or after answering my earlier question in order to determine how this information reached the media; if not, why not. 
If an assurance from each member of his staff has not been received will he now obtain one; if not, why not. 
Does he acknowledge that a significant lack of confidence would be displayed in an Australian Government when announcements that cannot be officially made, because of the necessity of obtaining the agreement or opinion of a foreign government, immediately become known unofficially or are such matters of little consequence. 
Will he, on this occasion give specific replies to each of the questions raised, and not an unspecific general answer which leaves questions not fully and responsively answered. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he carried out any examination, since coming to office, of the reports and debates concerning the site and the building of a new and permanent Parliament House. 
Will he arrange for adequate time to be made available in the House for an early resolution by the Parliament in respect of the site. 
Will he have steps taken, as a matter of urgency, to commence the planning of this longdelayed and much needed building in the national capital. 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Have the quantitative restrictions on the import of knitted shirts and outergarments and woven shirts, etc., been cancelled and the duties recommended by the Tariff Board brought into operation. 
Does the Minister see the effect on the industry of the Tariff Board's recommendations, if and when implemented. 
Has he examined or does he intend to examine the need for a further extension of quantitative restrictions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he receive in January or February 1973 a request by the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  for himto call a Premiers Conference in February 1973. 
If so, what were (a) the terms of the request and (b) the terms of his reply. 
Did he receive a similar request from the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan. 
Did he receive a request from the West Australian Premier,  Mr Tonkin;  if not, did he receive any communication from  Mr Tonkin  indicating that he would not press for a February Premiers Conference. 
Will the Premiers Conference to be held in May have on the agenda an item permitting the Slates to explain their budgetary position, with a view to receiving increased Commonwealth assistance; if not, why not. 

 - Mr Speaker, today's proceedings are too important for me to be absent. I had no desire, yesterday, to challenge the authority of your high office as  Speaker  of the House but I wished to protest the Government's restriction of today's debate. I therefore apologise to you. 
I am grateful for the opportunity to speak briefly before this debate is guillotined. I emphasise the point which the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  was making so strongly a moment ago. I believe his point needs to be repeated. This Government has, by its statements and by its actions, shown itself to be a government that is interested only in the citizens of Melbourne and Sydney. The change of name in this legislation underlines that fact. 
Debate interrupted. 
The former Government introduced into this House towards the end of last year the National Urban and Regional Development Bill and this Cities Commission Bill makes minor changes to that Act. Principally it changes the title of the Act to the Cities Commission Act. In the debate on this Bill last week my colleagues pointed out the paucity of the changes which are proposed. It is interesting to consider why it is sought to change the name of the Act in this way.I do not think we have to look any further than the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who spent most of last year running around this country making statements - not very convincingly - about what he would do as Minister. Now, after 5 months or so in office, he comes into this House with a tiny Bill which, in the main, seeks only to change the name of the relevant authority from National Urban and Regional Development Authority to Cities Commission. But he went on and made a speech. I have a copy of the speech which he issued. It covers some 8 pages. I have read it closely and, really, I find very little in it. The impression one is left with is that of a Minister trying hard to make a case for a Bill which he has brought in to this House. He is trying hard to make a case which would indicate that he has been able to introduce a number of innovations and that he has been able to produce out of all that research and work which last year he assured us he was carrying out on behalf of the then Opposition, justification for changing the Act which the previous Government brought through the House. He wants to show that he can see a new way in which the cities can be improved on in which regional development can be carried out in the national interest as part of a larger national purpose. 
On examination of the Minister's speech we find - I invite the House to read it carefully - that there is no substance of any consequence in it. My colleague the right honourable member for Higgins, the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  pointed this out clearly when taking the lead for the Opposition. Indeed in the course of his remarks he challenged the Minister to point out what these deep differences were. It is clear from Hansard that the Minister was not able to do that. I think a point of significance was made by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  last Thursday night and it ought to be emphasised - that is, the clear emphasis which this Minister gives to development of the 2 big cities, Melbourne and Sydney, in which he is interested and in which I believe this Government is interested to the disadvantage of the rest of Australia. It is indicative of the Government's intentions that its concentration is on those 2 big cities which certainly have rights and which certainly need assistance but not at the expense of the rest of the country. One can see the movement of this Government towards helping those cities particularly, I emphasise, the outer suburbs of them simply because that is where, at the last election, the Government received its electoral support and not in many other regions of this country. The Australian Labour Party claims to be a great national party. This Government claims to be interested in great national purposes. But its concentration, on one issue after another, is on the 2 big cities and very little else. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made great grandstanding of the effort that is being put into Albury-Wodonga. The arguments are not to assist that area but to alleviate the pressures on Melbourne and Sydney. No feasibility study has been carried out in respect of the expenditure which is to be poured into that region - this by a government which, when in Opposition, was at great pains to criticise the previous Government whenever expenditure was made in respect of which there had been a detailed analysis. I for one stand in this place and say that I believe that principle then enunciated by the Opposition was, in the main, correct. Yet, at the very first opportunity and in an area requiring direct and indirect expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars, no feasibility study has been carried out. In particular, we have the words that have been spun by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development who, I see, has departed from the table, in spite of the fact that he is responsible for this Bill; in all that torrent of words there would seem to be a concentration on Sydney and Melbourne, and indirectly on those 2 cities by the support for the area of AlburyWodonga. It is clear that, having made that expenditure, the Commonwealth can go very little further in helping other regions which have just claims. I submit that it makes the words of the Minister hollow indeed. 
Let me return to the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development because, as 1 said, this Bill represents the result of his work during his first 5 months in office, and, presumably, the result of the work that he did in the year or two when he was shadow minister responsible for this area. In his speech, he said:  lt is the objective of the Cities Commission and my Department to make federalism work. Federalism is a partnership in a spirit of mutual co-operation at all levels of government. 

 Mr Speaker, you know only too well, as a member of the Government Party, the cant that is involved in that statement. Here is a government which is opposed to federalism and al] that it stands for; here is a government headed by a Prime Minister who on one occasion described the States as the greatest divisive factor in Australia today: here is a government which, without consulting the States, wishes to abolish the Privy Council appeals and which, without consulting the States, has brought into this House the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, without any attempt at co-operation with the States. Yet the Minister for Urban and Regional Development can stand and talk about the objective being to make federalism work. So much for that statement. 
This Government aims at achieving unitary government in Australia and I say in respect of this Bill, as I will in respect of many Bills that will come into this House, that this action is of the greatest danger to the small States. I take the opportunity of saying that it will affect in particular my own State of Western Australia and the State of Queensland because of the action which the Government is already taking in damaging the structure of the mineral industries of those States on which this country greatly relies for its external income. 
Those are general comments which I make because I believe this Bill must be seen in the context of the objectives which the Government has shown in the broad. I return to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. He simply must face up to the fact that, in going around this country talking as he has, he has been shown to be an active pedlar of empty words and objectives. He  has  attempted to conjure up a grand vision of urban and regional development and this puny result is restrictive. Throughout his remarks he has attempted to show a newness of policy, a broader policy and an initiative which he has brought to this area where, as I said, none exists. Indeed, the Minister has relied almost entirely on last year's Bill which established the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, making only a few amendments. 
I should like to refer to another section of the Minister's speech in which he tried to justify the amendments which are to be made in order to show some newness of policy. He referred to an amendment which he moved in the House last year as the shadow minister, presumably having some knowledge of the subject. The Minister quoted in full this section of his remarks on the National Urban and Regional Authority Bill. It takes up half a page and I suppose that helped to fill out his address a little. He referred to the previous body as a mere investigatory and advisory body which would have no authority. He used such phrases as 'to cope with the problems of urban and regional development'; 'to deal with the continuing growth of capital cities and regional centres and to integrate plans for transportation and land use'; 'to coordinate the allocation of resources'. These are all loose and grandiose concepts. He then goes on to say, in trying to justify this Bill, that under this Bill - meaning his own - the role of the Cities Commission will be greatly strengthened. That is what the Minister says in relation to a Bill that does little but change the name from the National Urban and Regional Development Authority to the Cities Commission. With all the new advisers which the Minister now has and with his Department expanding rapidly, it is surprising to me that these comments and these policies have not taken on more of a practical aspect. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development still operates as a Minister who is just spinning words and who is a talking shop. What more of his work can there be than is contained in the Minister's second reading speech when he makes this comment: 
In the speech I referred to earlier, I claimed that under this Government the National Urban and Regional Development Authority would wither on the vine. It should be clear now that, as the Cities Commission, the Authority will be playing a more active and useful role than that envisaged for it by the previous Government. 
This document cannot but convince one that only very small amendments are proposed. The only change is to emphasise expenditure in the cities, which is all the Minister is interested in. Yet he seeks by mere assertion, without any backup, to make a comment which would imply that he has been able to achieve some great change and that he can see things far better and will achieve far more. 
I conclude on that point. I regard this Bill simply as an attempted justification by the Minister of all the words that he has spun in the last couple of years and all the publicity he has received for the office which he now holds and in which obviously he has been given free rein for the time being. This Bill is just an attempt to show that he is achieving something practical and helpful, but really it provides only for a change of emphasis so that as funds become available they will be used for the benefit of Melbourne and Sydney and not substantially for any other regions. This will cut out the ambitions and the rights of many other regions, including rural areas and the cities and towns in Australia, which rightly are looking for some assistance in regional development. If that assistance were provided it would give them real help and would not be just words. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many buildings in each State are occupied by Commonwealth departments and Commonwealth authorities which are not owned by the Commonwealth. 
What is (a) the range of rentals paid and (b) the average rental paid in (i) each State and (ii) each Capital city. 
Which Ministers or departments occupy space in the building known as Australia Square Tower, and what is the annual cost for each Commonwealth tenant in the building. 
I suppose that, with the Victorian election to take place on Saturday, we must expect Labor members from Victoria to make speeches of the character of the speech made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins). 
None of it warrants answering and I certainly do not propose to answer it. The Grievance Day debate represents one of the few occasions when private members have an opportunity to speak on any subject. I take this opportunity to accuse the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as Leader of this Government, of debasing this parliamentary institution. I recognise the gravity of that charge, but I believe that it is warranted by the evidence which I shall now produce.  1  mention, firstly, the need in a representative parliamentary democracy of this character, which this Parliament represents in Australia, to keep it the major forum for political debate and discussion in this country. Indeed, this Parliament, with all its imperfections, is the major expression of democracy in Australia. With all its faults, it certainly is the greatest forum in this country. When it meets it is the centre and the forum of expression of opinion on all the great matters facing the Australian people. 
We have already seen this Government, which claimed that it would bring in a procedure of open government, in a very short space of time - it is only 5 months since the election - even give up defending its position in that respect. It does not bother any more to claim that it has open government. 
Before the election honourable members opposite promoted that whole principle with great vigour. I can understand that a new government of this kind will have great new policies, with which not all will agree. Honourable members opposite may wish to be vigorous. But this is our democratic system. It is our procedure. There are many procedures and forms of this House which, if used properly, safeguard the people of this country and provide an opportunity for proper criticism, examination and debate. These forms and procedures must be respected if we are not to lose, one by one, the rights and freedoms which have been built up in this country and if we are not to see them whittled away. For instance, this Government talks about having received a mandate. I say, briefly, that there is no such thing as a mandate for specific policies. In spite of all the talk we have heard, I challenge any member of this House to point to one constitutional authority who will give him support for that principle. 
I come now to my specific charges. The Prime Minister has circumvented the forms and traditions of this House by the use of Press conferences. He holds them frequently. 
I do not mind that. But he uses them as the occasion to make the first announcements of Government appointments and policies. Those who have seen him on television know that he treats the questions he is asked relatively seriously - not without some evasion, but relatively seriously. He gives the journalists an opportunity to follow up their questions. They are in a position to examine him and to take up his evasions. But when this House is sitting he evades questions as much as he can. He uses his type of wit. It is hardly humour; it is more a scathing approach. He avoids one question after another. 
He has not instituted one debate on foreign affairs, yet he is also the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He has taken on this double task which, as we know, is too great for any man - even the present Prime Minister. He claims to be discharging that task properly. We know that many changes have been made in the foreign policies of this country - when that was stated the other day Government supporters cheered - and yet he will not allow debate, discussion and criticism of those great matters in this place. He controls the business of the House through the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  The Leader of the House is a harsh man. He is known in this place for being very tough about the proceedings and for always talking about members. We have before us at this time many Bills of great policy significance and of great importance to the people of Australia. Inadequate time is being provided to debate them. This has been mentioned several times in this House. However, much bluff, and perhaps counter-bluff, is involved, I believe that much more time ought to be made available to debate these great matters and great policy initiatives brought forward by this Government. If necessary, let the House have more sitting days.  1  know that the Leader of the House is likely to say, either to my comment or to some of the others that have been made: 'Oh, they do not really mean it.' Speaking only for myself, I say that I do mean it. I ask anybody in this House who thinks he has something more important to do than to stay in this place and debate these great issues to stand up in this place and tell this Parliament and the people of Australia what it is that is more important than debating great issues such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Pipeline Authority Bill, the Australian National Airlines Bill, the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill and the Prices Justification Bill. A number of other important ones have been introduced, but I have singled out what 1 think are the most serious. 
A method of debasing the influence of this democratic Parliament is the use of the Press conferences, which would circumvent much of the decision making and discussion on public issues that affect this country. I refer to the lack of introduction of matters. I have already mentioned foreign affairs which, of course, covers a wide range. There are many others, but these are the major specific matters. 
And look at the way in which the Prime Minister fails to answer questions asked without notice during question time by members of this House. Honourable members should read the quality of the answers to questions placed on the notice paper. The Prime Minister has had weeks to answer and to think up answers to those questions. Read the quality of answer that comes forward from him and his Ministers. Although he is inclined at times to say 'That is not my responsibility; address this question to the Minister concerned', as Prime Minister he is the head of the Government. He is responsible for the behaviour of his Ministers, both in public and in private. As Prime Minister he is responsible to answer for them. These great matters have been raised by various members of the Opposition, including my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  but the Prime Minister just evades the whole question. 
It is all right for Government supporters to interject. They know very well that I have only 10 minutes in this debate so I cannot spend time, as I would like to do, replying to interjections. But I believe that some Government supporters themselves are concerned about the issues that I have raised. I believe that every honourable member should be deeply concerned about what is going on in this place. It may well be said that former governments have done this, that and the other. All right, use that cheap jibe if you want to, but I am saying to this House - and it is going into the record - that I do not support the Government's actions. I believe that large matters of policy and great new matters are being introduced - I do not think any Government supporter will try to tell me differently - which are worthy of greater debate than ever before. We should remember that there are more Bills coming before this Parliament and that every session there are more than ever before. We simply have to sit longer or think of a better way in which to have debates. Let not the answer of the Prime Minister and this Government be: 'Oh well, we will dampen it down as much as possible because of the criticism that might ensue.' That is no way to conduct the affairs of this country. I conclude my remarks on the note that as far as I am concerned, in the proceedings which will take place in the years to come, I am for a more open government. I am for a fuller debate of the great issues that face the people of this country. 
 I raise a point of order. I believe that I have given evidence for what I have said. I have said it seriously and deliberately and if you,  Mr Speaker,  want to make a speech on the subject in a debate I suggest you should stand on the floor of the House and give it. 
The Prices Justification Bill 1973 I believe is a grandstanding attempt by this Government to pretend that it is doing something about price rises in Australia when in prospect it is not doing anything substantial. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who has just taken his seat and with whom I have crossed swords on this matter earlier - I do not want to spend much time on him - made a number of abusive comments when he opened his speech. He talked about the lack of constructive criticism from this side of the House. I want to point out that when one carefully studies his speech  -  1 invite honourable members to read it in Hansard - one will no; see anything constructive in what he said at all. On the contrary, one will see that his speech supports my contention that he is trying to build up a feeling that the Government and he, as  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices, the aims of which are in exactly the same category as this Bill, is only making the appearance of doing something. If, as he claims, this Bill is a genuine attempt to do something then I shall look forward with great interest to the results of what is achieved, and not just what he talks about. I shall not really try to follow all the meanderings of his speech because it really was not, I believe, a serious contribution. 
Yes, he quoted Galbraith and even Keynes - who is a little outdated, I might remind the honourable member for Adelaide. I think that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  pointed out in detail the omissions from this Bill and how effective it will be. I think he did that forcefully and well. Therefore, I do not propose to traverse that area or the area that was covered so well by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  last night, on other ground. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make the appearance of controlling, regulating or at any rate acting as a restraint on price rises. I believe that it is wholly politically motivated just to give the appearance of effort where there is none. I shall explain why 1 say that. The honourable member for Adelaide, who has now left the chamber, so great is his interest in this matter, has been talking a great deal to the Press lately and indeed has become almost the spokesman of the Labor Party on prices justification policies. He talks as though decisions have been made. He says things like: 'We will examine this. We will not permit this', all as though he were speaking with some sort of executive power. But when one examines the Bill one finds that there is hardly a sanction in it. We have seen Press reports about the efforts of the Treasurer and Minister in regard to this Bill. I believe we can to a large degree believe Press reports in relation to this Government because of the excellent relations that Ministers, particularly the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is at the table, have with the Press. Then employ former members of the Press gallery on their staffs and they enjoy a really excellent relationship, so I think one can believe the statements by com mentators more than one might have in previous times. Press reports have stated that the Minister fought hard in the Cabinet room for sanctions to be put in this Bill, but he did not win on that point. So the Bill has no teeth. I think the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was another member reported to be in support of that proposition. The Bill is given no teeth by those who are supporting the view that there ought to be price control or some means of enforcing price justification. What we have here is an empty shell presented by those who say we need this type of action. 
I remind the House, though it has been said here many times as it was in relation to the establishment of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, that this Bill and the speech that was made in introducing it make no reference to wage costs at all. Everybody knows that the type of inflation which exists in Australia today is cost-push inflation - that is its Keynesian aspect if I might refer it to the honourable member for Adelaide - cost-push inflation, not demand-pull inflation, and the greatest ingredient of cost-push inflation is rising wages. I do not say that it is the whole problem but it is the largest part of the problem and it has been totally ignored in this Bill. There has been no reference to it because the Labor Party is based four square on the trade union movement. I have referred to what 1 believe are the real aims of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Government in introducing this Bill. I believe that the Treasurer himself, if one closely examines the remarks he made in relation to Appropriation Bills No. 3 and No. 4, harbours some knowledge of the effect of wages in the matter and that he hinted- 
He has been overruled, of course, as my colleague says. But I think he hinted in his speech that he would like, step by step, to get to grips with the problem. I hope that there are some Government supporters in the national interest who share that view, even though they do not find it politic to mention it at this relatively early stage. Whatever the truth of the matter was, he said in that speech that large numbers of people in the trade union movement believe that their wages are controlled. I thought that was an illuminating statement, because obviously he does not believe it and obviously it is not the truth of the matter; but it does show that he is having to recognise that situation. 1 repeat, because it is the major point 1 bring to the House in my speech today, that the setting up of this Tribunal, like the setting up of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices, is largely window dressing, to make as much noise as possible by the Government to fool the Australian people into believing that the problem of price rises which they see and which affect them very much is being grappled with. It will be part of my effort as a member of that Prices Committee representing the Opposition to try to get that Committee down into the detail really to examine complaints about prices and see whether we can find any truth in the assertions which are made strongly and so widely that price rises are unjustifiable and - I think I would be right in saying this - have little to do with wage costs. 
I say of the Treasurer, because one does not gel a lot of opportunities to speak of him, that I think he discussed this question of inflation in his second reading speech in a fairly reasonable way. I think he brought out a few old chestnuts. 1 am sorry that he is not here. He is usually here when he has a Bill before the House. But I think my respect for him as an individual requires me to say that I believe that his conduct of Treasury shows every sign that he is an old fashioned Fabian socialist. I believe though that he is the best qualified on his side of the House to hold the office of Treasurer. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  disdains economic matters, and indeed seems to bring to these matters the same sort of disdain with which the aristocrats of old used to speak of trade. 
The Treasurer, to return to him, is by no means above repeating some blatant political Labor Party propaganda. For instance, he brought out the old chestnut about some people wanting a pool of unemployed. I interjected: Name one'. He said he would perhaps satisfy me by naming some people who actually believe in creating a pool of unemployed to avoid inflation. I hope that when he replies to this Bill or on another suitable occasion he will give me that list, as half promised, because I would be very interested to see whom he accuses of it. I do not discuss the details. As I said, the Leader of the Opposition did a good job of that. I believe, though, that the Government in this Bill and in the second reading speech has shown itself as not being really serious in trying to control inflation and to give it the high priority that it needs. I do not refer therefore to the absence of any reference in the Bill to price levels, to the criteria of investigation, to what are fair profits - in fact the whole concept of profitability - to the allocation of costs, to the hundreds, to the thousands, to the tens of thousands in some cases, of products which are produced by company groups. I have some experience in pricing policies of a practical nature in relation to my own companies in former times and those of clients. 
No, 1 do not think they are. I am trying to take a fair view of this, and if the honourable member believes that what I am saying is incorrect I hope he will take an opportunity, not necessarily in this debate, to try to point out where it is not correct. The companies concerned, of course, are in danger, if this policy of investigating large groups is continued, of having funds go from that area into others. That is a serious matter that has to be faced. I remind the Government and the honourable members here that whatever criticism they may like to make of resource allocation in this country - the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  talks of resource allocation with great frequency - and whatever new policies they think ought to be implemented, the wealth of this country today that they have to use to implement their welfare and other policies was created under the climate of Liberal-Country Party governments which were in power, as the House knows, for many years. I believe that the national wealth available for this purpose has grown largely because of that encouragement and the endeavour of many individuals in this country and the way of life under which they have worked and lived. It yet remains to be seen what the result will be in productivity, growth, inflation, employment and the external balance flowing from all these new policies which are being put forward. Let us always remember that these grandiose schemes we have put to us and the country at the moment are policies very largely in prospect, not in practice. 
We heard a good deal about prices and incomes policies. I want to say a little on this today. If I am not mistaken, there is starting to be a tendency for people to forget the great values and the day by day need for the old demand management policies. If inflation is to be a very serious matter in this country, and there is every indication that it is, and if it cannot be cured by adequate demand management policies, we on both sides of the House have to consider seriously prices and incomes policies. I do not come down on one side or the other on this. Of course, one is aware that there are many degrees of prices and incomes policies, but I want to make one or two observations about them which I believe are relevant to this Bill. 
Experience abroad has shown that 14 selected countries with economies comparable to Australia had an inflation rate on the average in 1967 of 3.8 per cent, in 1969 of 4.4 per cent, in 1970 of 5.3 per cent, and in 1972 of 5.9 per cent. In terms of the lowest rate of inflation, Australia was the fifth best of the fourteen. Germany was the best. Its economy was without any incomes and prices policies, although I do not necessarily suggest that that was the reason for its low rate of inflation, but nevertheless it remains a fact. Australia some years ago had put to it a referendum on prices powers for the Commonwealth, and it was defeated. Perhaps, if the referendum were put again, the public would not take that point of view, but we still have to remember that that was its view - no more power to Canberra. 
Prices and incomes policies are probably only of use in direct and in most thoroughgoing policies, and for Australia to adopt them it would need the co-operation of all sectors of the States, as we have learnt. They are not a substitute, as I said, for demand management policies when they are of use, and I believe they ought to be more greatly used by the Government today. Overseas experience has shown that in the short run there have been advantages. They give an initial shock, and in terms of inflation a beneficial shock, but that is because they are relatively easy to manage. Certainly in the long term there does not seem to have been much advantage, certainly as measured in inflation and unemployment rates. That appears obvious in that the effect wears off, so that in the mid term and long term situation the policies are much more difficult. Still the search world wide is on, and it is right that Australia should be involved in it, even though as yet it does not appear to have been perfectly successful. 
I mentioned the constitutional difficulties and 1 mentioned briefly in passing that the arbitration courts have just washed their hands of the problem. They have said: 'It is not a matter for us to concern ourselves with. It is a matter for the government of the day'. They have said that, even though the Government does not have full power. It may well be that we will have to consider in days in the future whether we can permit or, if you like, provide in the law for the arbitration system to take that point of view when it, of course, by its determinations affects greatly the cost of wages in the community. I have said that a prices and incomes policy would have to have some teeth. In its favour is that it would perhaps lower the rate of inflation and some people regard it as desirable to redistribute incomes. We do not hear a lot of debate about that. 
Against such a policy is that there are enormous practical difficulties with a large bureaucracy. It has been suggested that tax penalties may be put on employees who are paid higher wages than those set and on firms which obtain profits greater than those set. I am advised that the Taxation Office would need to be expanded to 3 times its present size to handle that little suggestion. As I said, there are enormous practical difficulties with a large bureaucracy and a reallocation of resources in the community which will give a very different result from that which we have today and which will not necessarily improve it. Controls of basic commodities, which are mooted by many Government supporters and are implicit in this Bill because it involves large companies, will not necessarily have a good result. They inevitably will mean less investment in those areas. 
The proposed Prices Justification Tribunal is to be investigatory only. No sanctions are provided, possibly because the Government received advice that they would be unconstitutional. It will be an attack on price setting and will have no influence on wages. So it can hardly be regarded as a serious effort to control prices and wages - the elements in our inflation problem. I believe that this is symptomatic of the Government's lack of policy in this area. I put that to the honourable member for Adelaide as reasoning for my statement and something that he just cannot set aside as superficial. If he wants this matter to be debated in more than superficial terms, let him be a little more detailed and a little more sophisticated about it instead of just making unsupported assertions. What a difficult position this Bill puts the Tribunal in. It has no teeth. If there is to be a tribunal, it must make decisions which are broadly acceptable to all the parties in order that it will have any credibility or that there will be any broad acceptance of its views and findings. The same position applies to the Arbitration Commission. What can it do without sanctions? 
The other point that worries me is that we are dealing with an institution in isolation. In his second reading speech the Treasurer mentioned two groups of measures the Government was taking in respect of inflation. I interjected after the first: 'They are a flea bite'. He did not answer me; so my interjection is not recorded in Hansard. Later he spoke of other measures and institutions. Where do these and other future institutions fit in? The Tariff Board, the Protection Commission, the Restrictive Trade Practices Tribunal, the proposed Securities and Exchange Commission, the Monopolies Commission and the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. It is also mooted that there will be an indicative economic planning body. What is the rationale for this proliferation of bodies and this split-up of resources? There was no mention in the Minister's speech of the Monopolies Commission, which in Britain is the body that does all the work. Its success has been acknowledged by the honourable member for Adelaide. How are these bodies brought in? One can imagine that in the case of colour television, which has been discussed recently, practically all these bodies will get into the act. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Has the Waterside Workers' Federation refused to turn around ships in Australian ports, apparently on the ground that their seamen have remuneration and conditions less than those set by the International Transport Workers' Federation. 
If that is not a correct statement of the position, what is the position. 
If the position is as stated, (a) how many ships have been delayed, (b) on how many occasions and (c) for how many days in each case. 
What was the cost of these delays. 
How many passengers (a) were delayed and inconvenienced and (b) had their passages cancelled. 
Can he say whether the Singapore Organisation of Seamen has indicated that it does not wish these delays to take place and that they are creating mora harm than good to the Singapore seamen. 
Can he also say whether these stoppages are part of a campaign to raise the level of wages and conditions of seamen engaged on ships of various nationalities, until they reach a standard acceptable to the Waterside Workers' Federation. 
If these demands are enforced, will it result in greatly increased freight rates which will dwarf freight rises as a result of wage increases to Australian waterside workers and affect all exporters, particularly the fruit industry and refrigerated cargo exported to our fast-growing South-East Asian market. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to my question No. 139 (Hansard, 27th March 1973, page 763), is the Government in a position to ensure that the compulsory exposure to ionizing radiation from the compulsory mass chest X-rays to be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory will have sufficient benefit. 
What is (a) the anticipated risk and (b) the anticipated benefit in quantitative terms. 
Does the modification of the compulsory X-ray requirement to which he referred indicate the belief of the Government that this radiation is more hazardous than was earlier thought. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he state, in answer to a question in the House, that there are no significant differences between the formula of Australia's recognition of the Government of the People's Republic of China and the formula of recognition of the People's Republic of China by Canada or Britain. 
If so, what were those differences, precisely, in respect of Canada, and why were they of no significance in each case. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he state, in answer to a question in the House, that there are no significant differences between the formula of Australia's recognition of the Government of the People's Republic of China and the formula of recognition of the People's Republic of China by Canada or Britain. 
If so, what were those differences, precisely, in respect of Britain, and why were they of no significance in each case. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the United States Government, in last year's negotiation with the People's 
Republic of China, managed to achieve exchange of representatives with both the People's Republic of China and the Government of Taiwan. 
If so, why was the Australian Government not able to achieve such dual relationship. 
Did the Australian Government explore tha possibility of achieving exchange of representatives with both Governments. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the Grievance Day debate on the last sitting day I took the opportunity to draw the attention of the House to what 1 believed were the inadequate and evasive answers to questions given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at question time and to questions on notice, his use of Press conferences to circumvent- 
Yes. May I just explain the point I was making? I referred to his use of Press conferences to circumvent- 
And the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)- 
The Minister for Services and Property in reply to the point I made about inadequate time being allowed to debate the far-reaching legislation in this House said: 
Do not honourable members opposite - 
He had been referring to me throughout his speech - want the Prime Minister to give to the Press information in regard to parliamentary affairs and other matters? 
Later he said: 
Therefore, if the criticism is made - 
And I had made it - that the Prime Minister is given this information to the nation it is made on false grounds. 
I made it clear in my remarks that I did not think that the Prime Minister should not speak to the Press but that he should not use those occasions when he did to circumvent the forms of the House and to prevent debate taking place, particularly on major matters such as foreign affairs. I was further misrepresented when the Leader of the House said of me: 
. the other day he was one of those who voted against an extension of the sitting times by an hour in the morning and by taking a little time oft the dinner break. 
I made it clear that I believed there should be adequate time in which to debate the farreaching proposals now before this House. My point was that there should be more sitting days and, indeed, the Minister for Services and Property has just announced that he will permit this. There should be adequate debate but whether there will be remains to be seen. 
I rise this evening to place on record and to emphasise what I believe was the outstanding work that was done on behalf of Australia by the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, now the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in a negotiation of the boundary between Australia and Indonesia during his term of office. When the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill was before the House last week I unfortunately was not able to speak on it or I would have made these comments at that time. I believe that there has not been full recognition in this Parliament in this country of the honourable member's skill, or of the importance of the agreements which he signed on behalf of the country in May 1971 and October 1972. Those agreements were signed, as the House is aware, and their ratification by both countries is not in doubt. The House also is aware that relations have been difficult in the past between our 2 countries but they are certainly not now, and I acknowledge the good relations which this present Government has continued with Indonesia. I instance in particular the contact made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  on his recent visit to Indonesia. 
Boundaries between countries are extremely sensitive matters. In the history of nations, the disputes, incursions and wars that have resulted from the placement of boundaries and the areas over which countries have sovereignty are without number. Yet last year an amicable agreement was reached by the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and, as will be seen by the map which was appended to the Bill circulated last week, it was not simply a mean line between the coastlines of those countries. It was, in fact, drawn closer to Indonesia and in that sense was in Australia's favour. The matter was largely concluded last year; and in election periods, particularly in the mood of last year, there is not much room for praise. I for one take this opportunity to ackncwledge this very great achievement. I believe that when the history of our country is written by the truly objective and detached in those days yet far off, the great work there was in this negotiation with Indonesia will be seen and it will be greatly praised,I think, together with those initiatives the honourable member began in other fields many of which have been carried on by this present Government and perhaps accelerated. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has he had discussions with the West Australian Minister for Education concerning the Government's proposals for assistance to non-government schools in Western Australia. 
Has he carried out any examination into the former Government's undertaking to provide assistance from the 1973 school year; if so, with what result. 
Is the Australian Government's assistance to non-government schools in Western Australia likely to reach in the 1973 school year 20 per cent of the cost of educating students in government schools, i.e. approximately$62.50 per year per primary school pupil and $104 per year per secondary school student. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Concerning the six guns jettisoned by Captain Cook off the coast of Queensland, (a) by whom were they (i) discovered, (ii) recovered and (iii) cleaned or otherwise restored, (b) what process or procedure was used in their restoration and (c) who has possession of them now. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Concerning the anchors referred to in his press release of 13 April 1973, (a) by which department or other authority were they (i) discovered, (ii) recovered and (iii) cleaned or otherwise restored, (b) what process or procedure was used in their restoration and (c) who has possession of them now. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Have any items similar to Cook's guns and Cook's and Hinders' anchors been discovered. 
If so, what are the items, and who has possession of them in each case. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Does he have knowledge of the details of all contracts involving the export of minerals. 
If so, what was the estimated value of mineral exports in respect of those contracts written in United States dollars for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
What is the estimated (a) capital investment, (b) number of employees, (c) amount of State royalties and (d) amount of other State revenue involved in respect of those companies whose principal income is from the export of minerals under contracts written in United States dollars. 
As a result of recent changes in currency rates between Australia and other countries, what loss of (a) export income from minerals and (b) State revenue from royalties is anticipated. 
Can he say whether the economic viability of any company is in jeopardy as a result of exchange rate changes; if so, what are the details. 
Are there any townships or localities, largely dependent on companies exporting minerals, which are in jeopardy as a result of recent exchange rate changes. 
Did the Government prior to exchange rate changes have any discussions with the Japanese Government or any other government with a view to alleviating the impact of the lower income to be received by the companies exporting minerals and those dependent on them. 
Did he state recently that he believed certain minerals being exported under contract were being sold too cheaply. 
If so, what are the reasons for the decisions by the Government to, in effect, reduce the price of most minerals being exported by 7.05 per cent and then 11.1 per cent in terms of income received. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government send a 3 man team of Australian scientists to inspect, on behalf of the Government, the French atomic weapons testing site at Mururoa Atoll this year. 
If so, were the men concerned the Director of the Commonwealth Radiation Laboratory,  Mr D.  J. Stevens, the Director of Meteorology,  Dr W.  J. Gibbs, and the Reader in Physics at Sydney University,  Dr H.  D. Ratbgeber; if not, who were they. 
What were the terms of reference or instructions given jointly or severally to the members of the team. 
On what dates were they engaged on their task. 
Who was the leader of the team. 
Are the members to report to him or another Minister. 
Are the members to report separately or will there be a joint report. 
Has the report been received; if so, when. 
What was the content of the report 
Will he have the report tabled in the House; if not, why not. 
Was the appointment of the team announced by him or any Minister in the House, at a press conference, or in any other way; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How much foreign aid, formerly promised to South Vietnam, has been cancelled by the Government since 5th December 1972. 
On what specific projects, or in respect of what categories of aid, had it been agreed that aid would be given. 
If the full amount had not been agreed or allocated, in what specific categories was the Government or former Government considering making such aid. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How much aid, and in what specific categories, has been promised to North Vietnam. 
Over what period is it expected that it will be paid. 
Is all or some of the aid dependent on whether the Government of North Vietnam substantially carries out its promises under the cease fire agreement 
This Insurance Bill is a large and fairly complex Bill of some 63 pages and is being considered in addition to 2 related Bills, lt deals with an area of a new law for the Commonwealth. At the outset I remind the House that the former government spent years of detailed work to get this proposed law into financial shape. The present Government made a few amendments, but the Bill is essentially the same. 1 had the honour to introduce the previous Government's Bill into the House on 28 November last year. 
The present Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said in his second reading speech:   .. . style and presentation of the Bill has been improved in many ways - for example, by the inclusion of a table of provisions, rearrangement of clauses and textual improvements which make the bill easier to understand. Some changes pf substance have been made if reviewed in the light of comments received on the earlier Bill. 
Those changes of substance are very hard to find indeed. I do not criticise such changes as have been made. Of course, one can go on and on continuing to refine complex law in a Bill such as this. But certainly the time has now arrived to enact this endeavour. However, I point out the general agreement of both sides of the House to the provisions in the Bills. I do so because of the Treasurer's comments to which I referred, and because of one or two other Party political references in the second reading speech. Indeed, the Treasurer acknowledged last year that he needed some time to absorb the complex provisions in the former Bill. This Bill sets up an effective system of supervision of general insurance in Australia. The Treasurer foreshadowed further proposed legislation in the insurance area. The Opposition hopes that that legislation, when it is introduced, will not go too far in entering into unnecessary restriction or indeed worse. The Opposition has no quarrel with the present Bill which, after all, was 99 per cent prepared by the former government. Indeed, an earlier Bill was introduced just before the last election when Parliament was dissolved. The Opposition therefore supports this Bill and will not move any amendments to it. The present Treasurer is perhaps fortunate that the timing was such that he and his Government were able to come in and take credit for this legislation. Of course they made the claim that the legislation should have been introduced earlier. The former Treasurer, now the Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable B. M. Snedden said in his statement to the Parliament last year: 
It must be remembered that general insurance business in Australia is conducted for the most part by companies which are sound and efficiently managed. ... In considering ways of supervising general insurance companies one does not wish to bring down legislation which is so restrictive that it would stultify the business of the great majority of insurance companies. 
I take the opportunity of elaborating on that point of view. It is the view of the Opposition and embodies an important principle. In 1970 when several small insurance companies were failing the former Government was under great pressure to take emergency action. Proposals were made for a steep increase in the deposit requirement under the existing insurance legislation and other proposals were made for the then Government to send investigators to companies suspected of being financially unsound - under what legislating authority was never made very clear. Increasing the deposit requirement steeply would undoubtedly have put a number of companies out of business. Sending in investigators on suspicion would have had similar effects and, more fundamentally, could in some cases have been a most unreasonable invasion of the rights of private citizens. The former Government resisted these pressures and opted instead for the less dramatic but more equitable course of embarking on the task of preparing comprehensive legislation to give Australia a permanent system of supervision of general insurance. That approach is embodied in this legislation. 
The approach in the preparation of the legislation had been throughout to strike a balance between the need to regulate company activities in the public interest and the preservation of the rights of companies to carry on business in a private enterprise environment. That balance is an example of a basic principle, I believe, of all members of the Liberal Party. It is one of a set of principles - an outlook - which I believe in and propose to pursue as long as I am in public office. It remains to be seen whether the Bill has succeeded in striking the right balance, but I can assure honourable members that was the intention of the former Government. When the legislation comes into force, insurance companies will be legally obliged to maintain minimum standards of solvency. In practice their solvency will normally need to be higher than the minimum to guard against the unexpected downturns in their finance. The standards have not been set unfavourably high, nor will they interrupt normal, sound business. The industry as a whole should benefit greatly from the introduction of these financial disciplines. 
Companies will be obliged to provide statements of their business periodically to the Commissioner in prescribed forms. This obligation may in some cases require changes in company accounting systems and may involve some added costs. However, many efforts were made to avoid making unreasonable demands for accounts and to make the form as consistent as possible with current accounting practices. Furthermore, the industry should benefit from the great improvement which will be possible in published insurance statistics for the country as a whole, which will assist individual companies in the conduct of their business. The new system of supervision is intended to ferret out financially unsound companies and to provide for their reconstruction or orderly withdrawal from business. 
I am sure that insurance generally would regard that as an essential purpose of the legislation. 
Overall the approach has been to mould the new system of supervision onto the industry as it is, with the minimum of disturbance to its existing practices. Where new obligations are to be imposed, any burden on individual companies should be offset by benefits to the industry as a whole. I believe that this broad regulation of the insurance industry will result in a healthy industry and at least in this proposed legislation the Government will not enter into a field of contractual relationships between the insurance companies and the policy owners. This approach - mainly devised by the former Government - epitomises the principle of the Liberal Party to which I have referred and, I believe, of our colleagues in the Country Party, in a most practical application. We did not believe in an economy where firms and the private sector can engage in any activity 'open slather'. There often is overriding public interest, but we believe in setting a climate of greater opportunity for competition and thus innovation and resourcefulness. So we have a continuing effort in the government of these parties to balance the rights of the individual or private firms with the rights and claims of the public interest, but we give preference to the private way of doing things. This insurance legislation is in accord with those principles, and I believe those principles to be widely accepted by the Australian community. 
I now contrast those views and attitudes with those of our political opponents. This is of significance because of the proposed legislation in the insurance field which was foreshadowed by the Treasurer. For some people who believe that a tidy, planned world will work, socialism is a great attraction. I believe that it is impractical. I do not want to go too deeply into the broad subject on this occasion but I will relate my remarks as closely as possible to the insurance industry. The Labor Government's objective, as set out in its Platform, Constitution and Rules at Part xxiv under the heading 'National Insurance Office', reads as follows: 
The establishment of a Commonwealth Government insurance office actively competing with private companies in all States in the fields of life insurance, fire, accident, workers compensation and other forms of insurance. Such activities to be conducted on a non-profit-making basis by way of rebating surpluses to insurers when renewing premiums. 
A more sweeping and, 1 believe, the logical extension of that policy is the document Economic Planning*. Clause 3 of chapter 5 reads as follows: 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise _ where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopoly. 
That policy was incorporated in Hansard by the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on 1 December 1971 in an unsolicited display - a warning almost - of the policy of the Labor Party now in government. When he was questioned on a television program late last year and was pressed, he went on to say that Labor would not nationalise an industry immediately but only after some event, such as a strike or industrial difficulties, made it appropriate. There is no such qualification in his speech of 1 December 1971 when he went out of his way to display this policy. 
The realisation that socialism finds little support in Australia has now caused Ministers to equivocate and slide around the question, but we know where they stand, because here they have the authority - the authority of the ALP Conference whose decisions must be adhered to by all members of the Party. The Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry who made that statement is the third senior Minister of this Government and perhaps one day he will be its leader. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in an address to the Victorian Fabian Society on 25 July 1972 said: 
It would be intolerable if a Labor government were to use the alibi of the Constitution to excuse failure to achieve its socialist objectives. 
In the same speech he went on to say: 
Yet others think . . . that at best the first term of a Labor government can be nothing more than a mopping up operation and it would be impossible to strike out in new directions. I reject those views and the conclusion drawn from them - the conclusion that a Labor government would not make much difference. 
That was the view and is the view of the Prime Minister. I refer to these additional Bills in the insurance law field which the Treasurer has foreshadowed because he went out of his way to mention them and we must expect that they will conform to the policy that has been stated. 
Let me conclude my quotations by referring to a statement by  Mr R.  J. Hawke, the real - if extra-parliamentary - leader of the Australian Labor Party, whose quotations have always to be included on occasions such as these to provide a balance. He was reported in the Sydney 'Sun' on 4 September last year as saying that the Australian Labor Party was a socialist party and that he had no respect for any person who denied this. I am glad to see the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  smiling in approval. I present these matters to the House at this stage because of their obvious importance in the near future in relation to insurance legislation. It is selfevident that these matters are important, because insurance is a vast financial area which thrives in an atmosphere of free enterprise and affects beneficially the life of each Australian. It is an industry which stresses the importance of individual virtues. I believe that where these qualities are essential, interference by large government bureaucracies can lead only to inefficiency and to the stifling of initiative. My Party is not a party of dogma. It does not believe that the mere exposition of outdated slogans will do away with problems. Such behaviour usually makes them worse. Emotion is prone to be more quickly stirred than is intelligence. In reviewing this proposed legislation I emphasise the individual or individual firm's, and company's, place in the community. The community and the economy work best when there is not undue interference in the market place. There is a need in a mixed economy such as Australia's for the Government to set the rules for competition, because the obvious result of unfettered competition is monopoly. However state monopoly - I use that word with its proper meaning - is as undesirable as private monopoly and can be worse. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Of the national servicemen in service on 4 December 1972, how many had (a) been discharged and (b) opted to remain in the Army and serve out their term by 31 January 1973. 
Does he expect all existing national servicemen to serve their full remaining time. 
When will the last national serviceman's time expire. 
Were national servicemen at any base actively encouraged to leave on the grounds that there was no work for them to do. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does his reference in answer to a question that his Government would not permit stop-go policies in the economy mean that his Government will not avail itself of the economic, fiscal and monetary powers available to it, such as variation in taxes, interest rates, tariffs and the exchange rate (Hansard, 14 March 1973, page 538). 
As some of these measures have already been taken by the Government, would he elaborate on the meaning of his statement and the policy implications. 
This debate is the continuation of the debate on the Grants Commission Bill. I take a much stronger view of the effect of this Bill than some of my colleagues do. I believe that the state of the federal system itself is involved. I think this matter is of such importance that it has been my desire to move an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. The amendment is known to my Party. I am not aware of any seconder and I have not actively solicited for a seconder. But such are the Standing Orders of this House that, because there is another amendment before the House, 1 am unable now to move my amendment because the motion before the House is that the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. However I will continue to seek an opportunity to make an appropriate amendment. The  Clerk  has copies of it, and as far as I am concerned he may circulate them. The terms of the amendment that I foreshadow are: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst recognising the need for additional funds for local government bodies in Australia, the House is of opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to provide that the grants scheme is compatible with the Australian Federal system and safeguards the constitutional relationship between the Commonwealth, States and local government and also ensures (i) no opportunity for circumvention of the States and (ii) the grant of additional funds to local authorities throughout Australia to the extent of not less than five per cent of Commonwealth income tax revenue within 3 years, with lesser sums available each year before then, commencing during the year 1973-74. The House further agrees that the re-drafted Bill be given adequate time for detailed examination by the Australian people and consultation by the Government with the bodies concerned, as the period of six days allowed for consideration of the present 
Bill is too short a period to examine such farreaching financial proposals greatly affecting the Australian constitutional structure'. 
That is my foreshadowed amendment. Today I emphasise the position of the States and the jeopardy in which this Bill puts them. The provisions in this Bill are so wide as to permit circumventing the States. Indeed, they can lead to draining the substance from the States and leaving them as shells. Step by step a government that wishes to do so can carry on and lead the States into that position. This Bill opens the possibilities of transferring administrative and practical powers from the States to chosen groups of local government authorities. That is why I say that the Federal system is at stake. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on behalf of his Government has made very clear his blueprint in this field. I believe he has been most straightforward about it in the last year or two. He is for a unitary government system for this country. He has not mentioned in his speeches a belief in centralism and he has not used phrases like Canberra control of what happens in every corner of Australia', but that is what unitary government means. This Government has shown a considerable tendency towards implementing unitary government in Australia. I instance what we have seen to be Government policy in a few weeks of sitting in this House. I instance the provisions of the Pipeline Authority Bill when it was introduced. It concerns more than just the building of a pipeline in Australia. It is an instrument for Federal Government control of natural gas and oil in Australia. The Senate amendments which the Prime Minister tried to wipe off and to denigrate at question time today have the full support of every member of the Liberal Party. Let that be clear. It is not support from just the senators, lt has the full support of all members of the Liberal Party. The amendments are aimed at removing the danger that that Bill presents to the States. 
The Australian National Airlines Bill, as it was introduced, is an attempt at achieving more control by this Government. Look at the provisions of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, the provisions of the Housing legislation, the action by the Government in respect of the Privy Council and of attempts to create a viceroy instead of a GovernorGeneral in Australia. I do not quarrel with every detail in the proposals any more than I quarrel with every detail and provision in this Bill, but taken as a whole they show the clear direction of the Prime Minister and the Government. I say that the speeches of the Prime Minister are the clearest statement of what he wishes to do, of how he wishes to circumvent and to undercut the States. 
Other countries have seen increasing value in having power diversified. There are illustrations of this in the United States and France. In the United Kingdom the Government in the last few weeks has announced a proposal to give seme control to the Scots. The ramifications of that have not been made fully clear but that legislation is an effort in a highly sophisticated country and it is comparable, I believe, with this one for the diversification of control - not just finance, but control. I believe that the Australian people have always wanted and will continue to want some balance of control against the exercise of power in Canberra. We know that administration away from the centre is very often - not always, but very often - more efficient, more economic, more socially effective and even wiser. A federal system, such as Australia has, does not mean that all power resides with the States. It does not mean that all power lies with the centre, in our case the Commonwealth. It means preserving a balance of power. Yet this Government has an open desire to upset that balance and to break the States. This proposed legislation is the most striking method of taking away the powers of the States without direct constitutional change and to that extent it is dishonest. 
I listened yesterday afternoon with great care to the speeches. I will speak first of the speech made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who is seated at the table. He spoke in very broad terms. He said that this Bill is historic and far-reaching. In that observation I could not agree with him more, but he went on to talk very broadly. He used the phrase 'better use of resources', whatever that means.  His  whole speech, as I said to him in another debate on a similar subject, was just a lot of word spinning to cover up, I believe, the deep purposes involved. It sought to cover them up with a lot of vague propaganda. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  spoke on this Bill before the Minister or Urban and Regional Affairs. 1 listened to him most attentively and I agree strongly with what he had to say in his arguments about the States. There was one very important incident in his speech. He said: 
The fact is that in this Bill there is a bypassing of the States, and in passing the money down this Parliament becomes watchdog for it. 
I quite agree. He made a few more comments and he drew the Minister for Urban and Regional Development into saying by way of interjection: 
It is not bypassing the Stales. 
The Leader of the Opposition went on to challenge the Minister to say in his reply exactly what he meant by that interjection. He did not do so. The important point is that it does not matter what the Minister says in this House. It does not matter what assurances he gives. What matters is the provisions in this Bill. That is what guides the courts. That is what will confine the conduct of this Government and future governments. That is the clear law. There is no legal authority who will say that what is said in speeches or what is someone's intention has any weight whatever, and the Minister should know that. 
I referred in my foreshadowed amendment to the grant of additional funds for local authorities. I want to say as clearly as I can that I recognise the great financial difficulties and needs which local government bodies have. That is the reason why I have included this provision which is based on a request by the local authorities themselves, lt is often said by the Prime Minister that State boundaries are outdated. The Prime Minister has said many times that he would see the formation of new boundaries and new regions. If boundaries are outdated - and he is yet to prove his case that he can get a better sei - clearly any new boundaries will become cut of date at some future time. One can always point out some anomaly by a line drawn or a regulation which finishes at a point. I take that argument as cheap. 
We are dealing with deep matters. I will not say that the terms that I have drawn in this amendment, necessarily with some haste, are in fact as accurate and deeply researched as I would like them to be. I have drawn the amendment up and I put it to this House because I regard this matter so seriously and because I want to indicate how strongly I feel about the position of local government authorities which are entitled, I believe, to an obligation to receive specific and well defined funds in exchange for the realisation that the existing States have rights which must be preserved. In such far-reaching proposals it is just not possible to anticipate every aspect. I think it is important for local government authorities to realise, too, that they will not get any more autonomy under these proposals. This Government and the Labor Party have no generosity when it comes to other bodies having power and influence. I make the prediction that if this legislation is passed local government authorities will build up a reliance on the Federal finance they will receive from this source and then, in practice, come under the full influence of Canberra in every detail of their administration. Anyone who has seen help given by the Federal Parliament previously in that direction will know just in what detail the Canberra Ministers, on the recommendation of their departments, will involve themselves. The Labor Party welcomes all that. It is in accord with its principles and it has said it openly; so I do not criticise its behaviour in that way. 
I conclude, having spoken deliberately, by saying that I view this as a matter of the utmost importance to the nation. I believe that the consequences are not fully realised across the nation or in the councils of the States. This great matter has been given hardly any treatment in the media. But I believe that when the consequences are realised, however long that takes, a deep and angry reaction rightly will be the result. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
During the period of the First Whitlam Ministry, Australia's first two man government, and remembering his undertaking to conduct a more open government in the public interest, what were all the decisions made and instructions given by this government. 
Was it necessary, in each case, to make the decision and instruction in the few days before the full and Second Whitlam Ministry was sworn in; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion, upon notice: 
When does he expect to receive the report of the Campbell Committee inquiry into university staff salaries. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What is the average area, in square feet, of the offices of private Members in each of the Commonwealth Parliament Offices at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion, upon notice: 
Will he tabulate the expenditure by the (a) Commonwealth Government, (b) State Governments and (c) private sector on (i) primary, (ii) secondary and (iii) tertiary education during the latest financial year for which figures are available. 
In the case of tertiary education, will he also analyse the expenditure on (a) universities, (b) colleges of advanced education, (c) technical colleges, (d) military colleges and (c) teachers colleges. 
asked the Minister for Secon dary Industry a question, upon notice: 
What would be the effect on (a) the economy, (b) the Commonwealth Budget of an immediate implementation of a 35-hour week. 
What would be the percentage increase in the unit labour cost of production in (a) the oil industry, (b) the cargo-handling industry, (c) the fuel and power supply industry. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Will the Minister elaborate on the considerations set out in part (2) of the answer to Senate question No. 141 (Senate Hansard, 10 April 1973, page 994). 
Is the policy, as set out in general terms in that answer, still the same. 
To what extent is consideration given to the factors (a) the degree of day labour employed by the contractor as against the degree of sub-contract workers employed, (b) the policy of the contractor to employ union labour as against non-union labour, (c) the relationship of the contractor with the trade union movement and (d) the quota of apprentices the contractor by established awards is entitled to employ and the number employed. 
What is the maximum difference, expressed in percentage terms, of tender price acceptable to the Government, to which it would give preference because of these conditions. 
How does the Minister specifically determine in each case (a) the degree of day labour employed by the contractor as against the degree of sub-contract workers employed, (b) the policy of the contractor to employ union labour as against non-union labour, (c) the relationship of the contractor with the trade union movement and (d) the quota of apprentices the contractor by established awards is entitled to employ and the number employed. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Did he complain in 1972 of the delay in answering his questions on notice (Hansard, 16 March 1971; 27 April 1972; 16 May 1972 and 26 October 1972). 
When may I expect answers from himself and his Ministers to my questions which have been on the Notice Paper since 28 February 1973. 
On behalf of the Opposition I address myself to the 3 Bills that are before the House to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act. First I shall deal with the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1973. I state at the outset that other members of the Opposition and I are implacably opposed to income tax avoidance schemes which are against the public interest. This Bill is designed to deal with the highest risk area of taxation avoidance being practised in Australia today. I think one ought to make the necessary distinction between taxation avoidance and taxation evasion. The latter is illegal; the former legal. But frequently a number of legal schemes are designed to thwart the intention of the Parliament. The Commissioner of Taxation, the courts and taxation boards of review must decide on the law, but they cannot decide what was the intention of Parliament when it made that law. The intention of Parliament is very difficult to interpret, yet it is something to which the Parliament and indeed the Executive must in the public interest address themselves from time to time. 
To define taxation avoidance is very difficult. As a chartered accountant in practice in former years, I have always believed that it is easy in practice, though not in definition, to decide for oneself, what is an unfair taxation avoidance scheme. In practice I have not found any difficulty in making that distinction, but it is hard to set down a definition. There is such a thing as improper avoidance, and this Bill deals with important areas of it. The general run of taxpayers are not able to avail themselves of many complex schemes for taxation avoidance which are operating in Australia. I remind the House that those schemes are not available in the main to public companies, let alone the salary and wage earners or small businesses. Further, to my certain knowledge a number of businesses which could have availed themselves of these schemes have declined to do so, I believe in many cases because they believed them to be not proper or perhaps because they wished to be cautious and did not want to become enmeshed in those complex schemes. I do not suggest that there is necessarily any impropriety in those who practise such schemes or those who advise on them. 
There is a continuing battle of the taxation authorities and Parliament against income tax avoiders. This has been so since the beginning of taxes, but more so since the end of the second world war because of the great demand for revenue made by the legislature. Perhaps the demands for revenue by this new Government will be even greater and may be too great. But certainly in many taxation fields, income tax, death duties and even sales tax, there are schemes for avoidance of taxation which must necessarily attract the attention of this House and indeed the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who unfortunately is not in the chamber at the moment. I know that he is particularly interested in a certain sales tax avoidance scheme and took an interest in it when he was in Opposition. I presume that as Treasurer he will do something about it. 
In respect of this first Bill I commend the Treasurer and the Government for its introduction, though I intend in Committee to move an amendment which I believe will give better expression to the intention of the legislation as the Opposition sees it. I will refer to the proposed amendment later. I just say at this stage that the amendment provides for additional time for private companies to declare dividends. It has been put to the Opposition and I know to the Treasurer and to the Government that there is an element of retrospectivity involved in the legislation which is feared by many to be unfair. The amendment I propose to move will extend the time available for the declaration of dividends to 15 June this year. It was originally proposed in the Bill that the final date would remain at 30 April. Because this Bill was introduced and its provisions became known for the first time on 11 April this year and it will not become law until it is passed through the Senate, probably next week, there is concern about it being unreasonably unfair. I am aware that those are very general words in relation to this proposed income tax law, but it is because of that concern that the proposed amendment will be moved on behalf of the Opposition. I understand that the Government will accept it. 
Of course, the principles of retrospectivity or retroactivity, as some like to call it, are indeed complex. I put to the House that we ought to be very clear - I do not debate this at any length - exactly what we mean by the term in relation to the Bill and exactly what effect they will have on individual taxpayers before too great an objection is made to them. For instance, I do not think that it could be called retrospectivity if legislation is enacted which prevents a taxation avoidance from being completed when it is intended to be carried out over some years to come. Further, I do not believe there is any reason why Parliament should not intercede and chop off that scheme in the middle. I do not even believe it is retrospectivity if Parliament decides to prevent schemes from being continued in the current year. I would suggest that retrospectivity is unacceptable if it affects taxes that have been levied and perhaps paid in the past in such a way that nothing further can be done by the taxpayer who has committed himself in those past years. 
I do not propose to discuss the clauses of this Bill or indeed the amendment in any greater detail than I have because they are in the area of most complex law. Any study of them would need to be done by reading and reference to much other taxation law and comment. It is not appropriate for discussion in a speech. But I point out that the schemes which this  Bin  will bring to an end are not just a little bit of income tax planning or a little bit of probate planning by people engaged in business or investment; they are in the highest risk area of income tax avoidance operating in Australia today. Because so much is said about what is right and what is wrong in respect of income tax law I want to quote the view of one court - the English Court of Appeal. I think for those of us who are not lawyers it is important to have before us views of the courts which would indicate the difficult area we are in when considering taxation laws. In 1941 the Court of Appeal, consisting of Lord Justice Greene, Lord Justice Clauson and Lord Justice Du Parcq, made the comments that I shall quote. The court referred to a section of an Act it was considering and said: 
The section - 
And one might interpose here, 'the Bill' -  is a penal one, and its consequences, whatever they may be, are intended to be an effective deterrent which will put a stop to practices which the legislature considers to be against the public interest. For yean a battle of manoeuvre has been waged between the legislature and those who are minded to throw tha burden of taxation off their own shoulders on to those of their fellow subjects. In that battle the legislature has often been worsted by the skill, determination and resourcefulness of its opponents of whom the present appellant has not been the least successful. It would not shock us in the least to find that the legislature has determined to put an end to the struggle by imposing the severest of  penalties. It scarcely lies in the mouth of the taxpayer who plays with fire to complain of burnt fingers. . . . The fact that the section has to some extent a retroactive effect appears to us of no importance when it is realised that the legislation is a move in a long and fiercely contested battle with individuals who well understand the rigours of the contest 
I believe that those remarks are of direct interest in this debate bearing in mind the number of representations which many of us have received and, I believe, have not fully understood what is intended and, indeed, why it was intended and what our understanding is of the public interest. The previous Government had under examination many of the matters which this legislation covers. So what we have before us today is a part of the continuing effort. I would just remark that I believe that this current Bill - and there have been many such in the past and there will be many more in the future - is the present effort to minimise taxation avoidance. I believe that it is in fact the end of a phase. Those who speak - and the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  did so last year as though he believes this taxation avoidance can finally be cleared up are pretending or are ignorant of the history and development of such matters and reckon without the incentive to avoid payment of taxes and the ingenuity of the human mind. 
The honourable member would know that tax avoidance has been going on for a long time and I should think that he would not assert that this legislation would mean the end of it. There are many many areas of avoidance: It is as old ah history and it will continue as long as there are taxes. Indeed, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is on record in a recent speech as saying that taxes are as complex as life and I do not think he would hesitate to affirm that today. I think these proposed amendments to the Act have received the closest examination in many quarters in Australia today with a view to their being overcome and with a view to defeating their intentions. Many people believe that there is unfair retrospective content in this legislation. The Opposition believes that the amendment we will move will make adequate adjustment in that respect. I congratulate the Treasurer and his officials because to the best of my knowledge they have given deep cause to pause to those who are anxious to continue unjustifiable tax avoidance. I believe that this Parliament can be well satisfied with the provisions of the legislation before it. As I said, the previous Government had most of the matters in this legislation under consideration and indeed it had announced that most of the amendments in these Bills would be made to the law. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill contains provisions to deal with so-called loss companies. There are provisions for the tightening of the law in relation to the trafficking in company loss shells in respect of claiming losses to avoid the payment of company tax of primary tax. I think these provisions are the next phase in closing the loop-holes that were discovered as a result of the legislation which was introduced in 1964 and in 1965 when amendments to trafficking in loss companies were first enacted. The Income Tax Assessment Bill also contains provisions for the socalled bad debts companies and again, trafficking in company shells is dealt with. The attempt to avoid taxation in this way uses the same fundamental principle of taxation avoidance. There are also provisions in the Bill in regard to the excess distribution company shells, in which there is large scale trafficking in Australia, designed to prevent the payment of either undistributed profit tax or the. tax on the declared dividends. There exists in the Act a concessional taxation deduction for premiums paid for life insurance policies. There is a widespread practice of making payment of premiums which plainly were not intended by the legislature to be claimed as allowable deductions. That deduction was provided in order to allow a taxpayer to provide for his own retirement or for his dependants on his death. But there are in operation schemes of short term policy duration which are entered into simply to avoid tax. 
There are a number of clauses in the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) with which the Opposition agrees. As I said, the provisions are complex and I do not go into them now. I do not think there would be any real benefit in doing so but I repeat that the Opposition has examined them carefully. I will dispose of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) quickly. This is a cognate debate and we are really debating in the time which has been allotted the 3 Bills together. This Bill deals with changes in provisions in the Act which relate to appeals to courts and to boards of review. The Opposition supports this Bill. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) contains 4 provisions. One will enable full concessional deductions for expenses incurred in connection with the education in spite of the new benefit for isolated children. This Government had previously announced its intention in this regard. Another provision is for the payment of domiciliary nursing care benefits to be exempt from tax. The Opposition warmly supports both provisions. The Bill also provides for the withdrawal of the income tax concession available to visiting industrial experts and exemption from income tax for visiting foreign experts in relation to income derived while visiting Australia. Concessions will be withdrawn subject to the double taxation agreements of which there is a significant number between Australia and other countries. The Opposition supports this change, believing that it is time for the provision relating to visiting experts to be eliminated from the Act although one hopes that there will not be too much discouragement of real know-how coming to Australia as a result of visits by experts. I believe that too often Australians underestimate the need for and the value of that know-how to the Australian community. 
The Opposition does not accept the fourth part of Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2). It will be necessary for the Opposition to oppose this Bill because it contains a provision to delete the present benefits given by sections 77c and 77d of the principal Act, putting it perhaps over-briefly, which are provisions, with others, designed to encourage investment by private individuals in companies which in the main are engaged in the exploration and development of minerals. The word 'minerals' includes oil and gas. The fact is that private prospectors and small companies have been responsible for finding most and perhaps all of the significant ore and other mineral deposits in Australia. That is an historical fact. Therefore the Opposition makes the strongest protest it can against the Government's action in this respect. 
I wit] take one or two minutes to elaborate the Opposition's view because there is a strong case for retaining the provisions in those sections of the Act. There is a strong case for retaining the provisions. Retention of these sections is in the national interest as it will assist in ensuring continuity of basic exploration. These sections as such have never been abused in the sense expressed in the joint ministerial statement d otherwise and indeed are not open to abuse. 
If the honourable member will pause for a moment I will come to the point I think he has in mind. These sections were and still are the basis of the traditional incentive for prospecting and exploration drilling. They have existed in effective form, though the numbers have been changed, for 30 years. The benefit to the national interest in the activity which is carried out using these sections has perhaps been obscured by section 77a, which was put into the Act in 1959, and section 77d in 1968. The Opposition believes strongly that tha retention of these concessions will help to maintain the support politically and otherwise of the 'small man' in exploration who has been the traditional supporter of prospecting ventures in Australia. 
I put to the Treasurer that this is a Government which, according to its statements, sees great value in ownership and exploration by Australians as opposed to international companies and particularly large international companies. Yet, by this action the Government is not only cutting out the incentive but perhaps stifling the creation of new exploration companies. If companies cannot receive subscriptions by issuing shares to Australians in fairly small parcels there is little chance, even in times of more enthusiasm about the price of minerals, that they will continue in the exploration field. The establishment of a government managed petroleum and mineral exploration and development agency must take some time if it is to be successful. Of course, the Government is making every tax payer and indeed every citizen of Australia a shareholder whether they want to be or not in a scheme which may have very doubtful expertise. We all will become involved willy nilly in a scheme in which first of all we will gamble that there is oil and gas and secondly that this Government will find it. 
Many Australian geologists, geophysicists, engineers and prospectors will have been forced through unemployment to take jobs outside this country or, more regrettably, to be unemployed. The shortage of petroleum, both oil and gas, and hard minerals is now a world pattern and accelerated exploration is needed. Any breaking of continuity and any federal action inducing an avoidable reduction of exploration activity which in due course would replenish known reserves is certainly against Australia's interest. The Opposition supports the transitional provisions of this Bill which will now apply from 16 July until a date in May, the date when these deductions for exploration provisions are to be removed entirely. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  when he was Treasurer announced the desire of the former Government to cut out the tax avoidance scheme which was operating in Australia and which I think is the objection to which the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was referring. That was not a genuine use of those provisions. The former Government wished to delete it and, of course, if that Government had been returned at the election in December it would have, as it announced, enacted those provisions and cut out the unjustifiable taxation avoidance involved. But, of course, this Bill goes much further than that. It removes the encouragement altogether. 
This debate is being conducted on the last day of this session and it has not been possible at this stage for the Opposition to pick out of this Bill the particular lines, words or clauses to which it takes objection and which it would otherwise seek to delete during the Committee stage. Therefore, reluctantly, the Opposition must vote against the whole Bill. But I give notice- 
I am dealing with the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2). I want to inform the House that the Liberal Party's Attorney-General's committee and economic committee have looked at this matter very thoroughly and if, when this Bill comes on for debate in the Senate we can determine which words we would like to see deleted from the Bill we will move the appropriate amendments at that time. But at this stage we cannot yet see how we can take out the objectionable parts because the contents of the Bill seem to be rather entwined. Therefore we have no option today but to vote against this Bill in its entirety. However, I have made it clear in my other remarks that the Opposition supports all of the other provisions - indeed, we support most of them with alacrity. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that the Opposition will be moving an amendment during the Committee stage on the Income Tax Assessment Bill. The Treasurer has notice of the amendment and I hope that it will be distributed. The Opposition will vote against Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) but I want to make it clear that our objection relates only to the provisions which prevent the encouragement of exploration for minerals. The Opposition supports entirely Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3). 
I know that the Treasurer has done a good deal of work on this legislation. I have referred to the fact that most of these matters were under the consideration of the former Government last year and we believed them to be sound principles. But there is one matter that does not seem to have come forward yet, and that is the question of tax havens, and in particular Norfolk Island. I would have expected far stronger statements from the Treasurer about what he intended to do about this form of tax avoidance. I would have expected him to make the comment that he will not permit this practice to continue any longer. I thought we would have seen a Bill on this matter by this time. I am quite aware of the complexities involved and I am equally aware that a lot of work has been done already. Indeed, work on this matter was carried out even before the last election. I urge the Treasurer to give his urgent consideration to the question of preventing tax avoidance by the use of tax havens not only on Norfolk Island but in other countries, some of which are near neighbours of Australia. I hope that when the House reassembles in August we will have in front of us legislation to deal with these matters in order that unjustifiable tax avoidance can be minimised in Australia. 
The Opposition supports this clarification of the law. I understand that the former AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  may well have been responsible for initiating some clarification. We will be glad to see the amendment made to the Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move the following amendment: 
At the end of the clause, add the following subclause: 
Where, but for this sub-section - 
there would be an undistributed amount in relation to a private company in relation to the year of income that ended on 30 June 1972; or 
the undistributed amount in relation to a private company in relation to that year of income would be increased, by reason that the whole or any part of an excess distribution made by the company for an earlier year of income is not, by reason of the amendment made by section 19, included in a notional dividend that is deemed to have been paid by the company during the period that is the prescribed period in relation to the first-mentioned year of income, then, any dividends paid by the company during the period that commenced at the expiration of that prescribed period and ends on 15 June 1973, to persons who were shareholders in the company at the expiration of that prescribed period and continued to be shareholders in the company until the dividends were paid, shall, If the company elects not later than 30 June 1973, by notice in writing to the Commissioner, that this subsection should apply in relation to the company, be deemed, to the extent to which those dividends do not exceed the undistributed amount or the amount of the increase, as the case may be - 
to have been paid by the company during that prescribed period; and 
not to have been paid by the company in any period that is the prescribed period in relation to another year of income in so far as the time of payment of those dividends is relevant for determining whether the company is deemed, for the purpose of Division 7 of Part 111 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, to have made a sufficient distribution, or to have paid in dividends an amount in excess of the lowest amount that would have been a sufficient distribution, in relation to that other year of income'. 
This is a lengthy amendment and, I think, to be understood must be read in quiet somewhere. As I mentioned during the second reading debate on the Bill, the amendment attempts to provide an extended period to enable private companies to make a declaration of a dividend up to and including 15 June 1973. The Opposition believes that it overcomes to a large extent an element of retrospectivity on which many representations have been made and that, in the main, it satisfies fears of retrospectivity and, at the same time, will not result in any unjustifiable loss of revenue. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons of each nationality were granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation between 1 January 1945 and 31 December 1972 (Hansard, 9 December 1971, page 4606). 
What is the estimated percentage of eligible persons of each nationality who were granted Australian citizenship during the same period. 
What is the estimated number of persons over 16 years of age of each nationality who were residentially qualified to apply for Australian citizenship on 31 December 1972 who had not done so (Hansard, 25 November 1971, page 3757). 
How many persons of each nationality were granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation in Australia and Papua New Guinea in 1971-72 (Hansard, 25 November 1971, page 3757). 
How many persons of each nationality acquired Australian citizenship by notification in 1971-72 (Hansard, 9 December 1971, page 4606). 
How many Certificates of Naturalisation were conferred in 1971-72 in each local government area in which more than 100 Certificates were conferred (Hansard, 9 September 1969, page 1020; 2 September 1970; page 904 and 6 October 1971, page 1999). 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Did he say an a television program shown in Perth that he would give no assistance to a Pakistani who had been allotted a lease of land at the Ord River by the State Labour Government, when the Pakistani had proposed to farm it using Pakistanis who desired to emigrate to Australia. 
Did he also say that he took a very dun view of the matter. 
If so, will he elaborate on the policy of the Government on which those statements were based. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice: 
How many taxpayers are there who have reduced the taxable sale value of goods taxable at the highest rate of sales tax by the device of separating components of the total charge borne by the retailer and having some components of that charge invoiced by one entity and other components of the charge invoiced by a separate entity. 
What is the estimated annual loss to revenue from the use of this procedure. 
Has he carried out an examination into this matter to ensure that the taxable sale value shall not be reduced in this way by some taxpayers at the expense of taxpayers generally. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice: 
Has he carried out any examination into amending the sales tax law with a provision with the same objective as section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime. Minister,  upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my, question No.  174  (Hansard,  16  May  1973,  page  2250)  in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my Question No.l74 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Has his attention beendrawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will the Minister provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by the Minister's Department and by authorities under the Minister's control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for North ern Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250) in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all buildings occupied by his Department and by Authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the names of all aliens and naturalised migrants who have been deported from Australia since 5 December 1972. 
In the case of each of these persons, what Is the (a) full name and address, (b) last usual place of abode in Australia, (c) date the deportation order was (i) issued and (ii) served, (d) date each left Australia, (e) section and Act under which each was deported,  (0  specific reason each was deported, (g) (i) nationality or citizenship and (ii) former nationality or citizenship, (h) country to which each was deported, (i) name of any persons known to have accompanied each, whether related or not, and whether under a deportation order or not, (j) present address, where known and (k) name and address of any person known to have accompanied the deported persons to another country, whether having custody of the deportee or supervision of the travel of that deportee. 
asked the Minister for Immi gration, upon notice: 
How many persons of each nationality were granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation between 1 January 1945 and 31 December 1972 (Hansard, 9 December 1971, page 4606). 
What is the estimated percentage of eligible persons of each nationality who were granted Australian citizenship during the same period. 
What is the estimated number of persons over 16 years of age of each nationality who were residentially qualified to apply for Australian citizenship on 31 December 1972 who had not done so (Hansard, 25 November 1971, page 3757). 
How many persons of each nationality were granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation in Australia and Papua New Guinea in 1971-72 (Hansard 25 November 1971, page 3757). 
How many persons of each nationality acquired Australian citizenship by notification in 1971-72 (Hansard, 9 December 1971, page 4606). 
How many Certificates of Naturalisation were conferred in 1971-72 in each local government area in which more than 100 Certificates were conferred (Hansard, 9 September 1969, page 1020; 2 September 1970, page 904 and 6 October 1971, page 1999). 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
In what further instances since the reply of the then Treasurer on 17 November 1964 (Hansard, page 3181) have superior courts interpreted sections of the Estate Duty Assessment Act in a way contrary to that contended for by the Commissioner of Taxation. 
Upon what sections of the Act were these decisions given. 
What is the estimated loss to revenue each year as a result of these decisions and the earlier decisions mentioned in the then Treasurer's reply of 6 September 1961 (Hansard, page 940). 
What progress has been made in advising measures to close the loopholes disclosed in these decisions (Hansard, 28 October 1964, page 2391). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In what further instances since the then Treasurer's reply of 17 November 1964 (Hansard, page 3181) have superior courts interpreted sections of the 
Gift Duty Assessment Act in a way contrary to that contended for by, the Commissioner of Taxation. 
Upon what sections of the Act were these decisions given. 
What is the estimated loss to revenue each year as a result of these decisions. 
What progress has been made in advising treasures to close the loopholes disclosed in these decisions (Hansard, 28 October 1964, page 2391). 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What is the average cost of acquiring and developing the blocks of land in each . State capital on which the State Housing Authority is at present building houses with Commonwealth grants. 
How many blocks had each State acquired and developed by 31 December 1972 for future building of houses. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Has he published reports numbers 4 and 5 of the Australian Atomic Weapons Testing Safety Committee which report on the fall-out from the French and other nuclear tests measured in Australia and Papua New Guinea; if not, why not? 
If they have not been published, will he release them as soon as possible? 
Do the reports state that very low levels of radioactivity were recorded? 
If so, is this view, in essence, supported by the National Radiation Advisory Committee and does it regard the fall-out from the French tests as of no hazard, or of insignificant hazard, to health? 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many (a) indigenous men, (b) expatriate men, (c) indigenous women and (d) expatriate women are (i) sponsored by his Department at each tertiary institution in Papua New Guinea and (ii) assisted to attend tertiary institutions in Australia. 
What is the nature and cost of the sponsorship and assistance respectively (Hansard, 3 May 1971, page 2419). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What were the names of the 101 companies which came to the notice of the Government in the course of the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act during the period 5 December 1972 to 31 March 1973. 
What were the (a) names of the companies in the course of being taken over and (b) details of the take-over proposals in each case. 
Which of these takeovers (a) hare been permitted to proceed, (b) have been prevented, (c) have been withdrawn before acceptance or refusal and (d) are still under consideration. 
Where a proposal has been determined, what was the reason it was permitted, prevented or withdrawn in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What specific arrangementsis he making to assist or compensate those industries which have suffered great loss from the two Government decisions relating to the Australian currency rate. 
What action has been taken, specifically, in relation to the (a) mineral industry, (b) gold-mining industry, (c) sugar industry, (d) dairying industry, (e) motor vehicle industry and (f) wheat industry. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to my question of 2 May 1973 concerning at least 6 Yugoslavs deported to Yugoslavia, did he reply that the information I requested was to be found in the Senate Hansard of the day before (Hansard, page 1553). 
If so, would he point out exactly where this information appears in the Senate Hansard. 
If it does not appear in the Senate Hansard, will he supply the answer to the question I asked. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 1 74 ( Hansard, 1 6 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
) Can he say whether the new Government's restructuring of the arts results in a larger number of committees and members of committees than exists in the United Kingdom which disburses a far greater sum. (2 )Is it a fact that the activities of the Australian Council for the Arts and its Boards, which meet on a regular basis, will result in fares and accommodation alone amounting to $500,000 in a full year. 
Have delays occurred in disbursing to the arts moneys already allocated because of the inability of the Boards to conduct the day to day business of the old Australian Council for the Arts. 
Is it a fact that the Council and the Boards are unwieldy bodies, with 24 members on the Council and 1 1 to 13 members on each Board. 
5 ) How many staff are there, and what is the estimated cost of the staffing required to service the Council and the Boards. (6)Is it contemplated that the new arts structure will spend $2m in a full year on the salaries of professional administrators. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can the Attorney-General state briefly the law in each State and Territory regarding the control of firearms. 
Can the Attorney-General supply details of the number of deaths in each State and Territory from gunshot wounds during each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to  my  question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not ownedby the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Minerals  and Energy, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973 page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question no. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250) in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth Authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Minister concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by Authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will the Minister provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by the Minister's Department and by authorities under the Minister's control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from &gt;the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many overseas trips have been undertaken by himself and his Ministers since the First Whitlam Ministry was sworn in. 
How many (a) members of the Minister's personal staff, (b) public servants, (c) journalists and (d) other persons accompanied the Minister in each case. 
Did the Commonwealth pay for all travel and accommodation,. 
Which countries were visited on each trip. 
What was the approximate total cost of each trip. 
Does he personally authorise each trip; if not, who does. 
In how many cases was an aircraft specifically chartered for all or part of the trip. 
What was the average number of staff and advisers accompanying each Minister. 
Did he indicate to his Ministers that he believed there had been too many trips to be acceptable to the Australian public. 
What in general are the arrangements made for expenditure for each category of persons travelling. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my Question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250) in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Minister concerned. 
Will the Minister provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by the Minister's Department and by Authorities under the Minister's control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many (a) members of staff and (b) advisers are employed by himself and each Minster of his Government. 
What is the annual rate of salary for each member of staff. 
What are the principal conditions of contract for advisers. &lt;4) During what period have advisers been employed since 5 December 1972. 
How many persons who are principally engaged in work in connection with the 'Ministers' offices or on tasks initiated by each Minister or his staff, and whose work is principally that of a policy, liaison or secretarial nature, have been employed by departments since 5 December 1972. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In respect of (a) the Department of Immigration, (b) the Postmaster-General's Department and (c) the Department of Supply, what was (i) the number of persons employed under the Public Service Act and other Acts at (A) 30 June 1971, (B) 30 November 1972 and (C) 30 May 1973, (ii) the number employed who were permanent, temporary or exempt officers or employees, at each of the above dates and under each Act, (iii) the total establishment under the Public Service Act and other .Acts at (A) 30 June 1971, (B) 30 November 1972 and (C) 30 May 1973, (iv) the number of positions oh establishment that were vacant at (A) 30 June 1971, (B) 30 November 1972 and (C) 30 May 1973 and (v) the number of new positions created since 30 November 1972 under the Public Service Act or other Acts, and the number that had not been occupied up to 30 May 1973 or which were vacant at 30 May 1973. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Referring to my question of 16 May 1973 asking details of Ministers' overseas visits, is it permissible for staff accompanying Ministers to be paid overtime. 
If so, what overtime has been paid in relation to any of the overseas trips mentioned in my earlier question. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
In view of statements made in the House by himself and his colleagues that in recent years too little defence expenditure was on hardware, has he examined in what way he will increase the percentage of the defence vote for hardware. If so, what is the result of that closer examination? 
If he has not made such an examination when will he do so, and in what way does he propose to make the result known? 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Did he say that he would ensure that a greater proportion of defence expenditure would in future be spent on items manufactured in Australia? 
If so, has he carried out any examination of the matter? 
If an examination has been carried out, what are the precise grounds that indicate this can be achieved? 
Will the same quality and/or performance be required as formerly? 
Does the examination disclose that there will be a cost penalty involved; ' If so, what percentage does his policy allow him to accept? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the ratio of civilian to Service personnel in each of the Service Departments as at 31 December (a) 1970, (b) 1971 and (c) 1972. 
What steps have been taken by each of the Departments to substitute Service personnel wim civilians. 
HMS Bristol  (Question No. 251) 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he say that the defence expenditure under the evel of expenditure is to be arrived at (a) as the level it was under the McMahon Government; if so, has he carried out any examination of die number of years that that rate of expenditure would be held before it was reduced. 
Will he indicate whether the maintenance . of the level of expenditure is to be arrived at (a) as the amount spent in (i) 1972 or &lt;ii) 1973; or (b) as a fixed percentage qf the Gross National Product. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will the Attorney-General provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by the Attorney-General's Department and by authorities under the Attorney-General's control in buildings not owned by, the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my Question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250) in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth Authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that Question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of. all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250) in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. &lt;2) Will he provide details as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will the Minister provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by the Minister's Department and by authorities under the Minister's control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Government compulsorily acquire Lots 313, 314, 324 and 325, bounded by Alexander Road, Belgravia Street, Esther Street and Daly Street, Belmont, Western Australia, in January 1946, for Army purposes. 
If so, was the consideration approximately $1,000. 
Has the Shire of Belmont been endeavouring to obtain the return of this land since 1952 to establish aged people's  villages  or homes complexes. 
Is the land close to the shopping facilities, post office and Shire civic complex. 
Did the Government give emphasis at the last election to the need of the aged, as well as need for aid to local government. 
Has this land which was resumed for Army purposes been offered back to the Shire for $184,000. 
If so, is that the commercial value of the land. 
Is the Commonwealth considering the acquisition of 1,350 acres of rateable property within the Shire for extensions to Perth Airport. 
Will he give urgent and sympathetic consideration to the matter and offer the land for a reasonable sum, bearing in mind the purpose for which it was acquired originally, the consideration then paid, and the use to which it is to be put. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn  to  the reply by the Minister for Services and Property  to  my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating  to  occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Minister concerned. 
Will he provide details as set out in that question of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Science,  upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state, as reported, that a wool mission from China had placed an initial order with the Australian Wool Corporation for about 1,000 bales of merino wool valued at $500,000, and that this was an important breakthrough in respect of trade between China and Australia. 
Have much larger sales of wool to China been made privately. 
Have sales of about 10 times as much been made to Taiwan. 
Is this sale to China a transaction which undersells the established market; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for External 
Territories, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the serious water shortage which has affected primary industry in Western Australia. 
What sum has been made available to each State from the National Water Research Development Fund. 
What amount is expected to be paid to each State from the Fund in 1972-73. 
Has Western Australia received a fair share, bearing in mind the circumstances and area. 
Will action be taken to make more finance available for the extension of the Comprehensive Water Scheme. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated additional income tax which will be raised in assessments of the recipients of increases in salaries as a result of the Campbell Committee's Report, accepted by the Government on 28 May 1973. 
Were these increases in salaries between 21 and 24 per cent. 
Was the recommendation that an independent committee be set up to review university's staff salaries regularly (a) agreed to, (b) not agreed to or (c) deferred. 
What will be the cost to the Commonwealth of these increases in salaries in a full year if all the States agree. 
Are all increases fully assessable. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What was the strength of the Australian Army as at(a) 31 March 1972, (b) 30 June 1972, (c) 30 September 1972, (d) 31 December 1972, (e) 31 January 1973 and  (0  28 February 1973. 
What number has been set as the number of regulars needed. 
What is the predicted strength as at (a) 31 March1973, (b) 30 June 1973, (c) 30 September 1973 and (d) 31 December 1973. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked.the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250), In which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will the Minister provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by the Minister's Department and by authorities under the Minister's control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date the information supplied by his predecessors regarding the number of departmental teachers who (a) have resigned, (b) are in employment and (c) are in training (Hansard, 6 May 1971, page 2862 and 9 November 1971, page 3203). 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Government decided to give any compensation to men who were jailed for offences under the National Service Act. 
If so, (a) what form did, or will, that compensation take and (b) how many men are involved and for what categories of injury. 
The Opposition protests at the guillotine motion which has been brought down in respect of these 5 Bills. The Bills propose amendments to the Constitution - the document which sets out the powers of this Parliament in relation to the people and to the States. There could hardly be anything more important- 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr  Daly's) be agreed to. 

 - Mr Speaker, I take the opportunity of raising with the House and with you, sir, an event which happened at question time last Thursday morning and which is recorded at page 149 of the Hansard of that day. You will firstly see a point of order there which I am sure you will recall that I took. It is actually recorded in Hansard under the name of  Mr Staley  and I should first say that it was I, not  Mr Staley,  who took the point of order. I have already notified Hansard of that. But the point at issue, and you referred to it again at question time today or soon after, is the right of an honourable member to take a point of order. I suggest that the position is that if an honourable member feels that the Standing Orders have been breached in any way by an honourable member, or indeed even by you, with respect, then he has the right to stand and call out 'Point of order' and expect to receive the call.  Mr Speaker,  you have in passing on previous days, and explicitly this morning, drawn attention to the situation and said that honourable members cannot proceed with a point of order unless he has the call. My purpose in rising, however briefly, this evening is to put the view that when an honourable member believes he has a point of order he has a right to be heard. 
The practice in this House has been that when an honourable member said 'Point of order' the  Speaker  looked at him and the proceedings hushed while he spoke. He went on even though he did not get the call, and even though the name the honourable member for Curtin, for instance, was not said by the  Speaker.  Indeed, I listened to the tape on this matter and 7 seconds were given to me, which is quite a long time during a busy period in the Parliament for me to proceed But I was cut off because the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  had the call. I give you,  Mr Speaker,  if I may, that description of that event and I ask you whether you will consider it in due course? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, as has been pointed out by previous speakers, the International Monetary Agreements Bill proposes that Australia should take up an additional entitlement of 341 shares in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These shares have a value of approximately $A28m, of which only 10 per cent - say $2.8m - will be required to bring Australia's total equity in the bank to $643m, of which $64m has been provided in cash. The bank borrows on fairly favourable terms on that equity investment and passes on those favourable terms to the recipients of its activities (which are the poorer member countries of the bank) in order, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said in his speech, to encourage the best rate of economic growth and development. 
I had the pleasure of visiting, with considerable interest, some officers of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in December last year. The Bank makes loans broadly speaking, on commercial terms for economic projects related to capital works, water, transport, power and production. More recently, when the Bank has engaged in a wider range of activities, more emphasis has been placed on the social implications, and necessarily less emphasis has been placed on economically viable projects. I do not think that it is possible to express a view on this fairly recent tendency. One would have to look at each project on its merits to see,how : sound it is and really hOw beneficial it is in its social objectives. But I cannot say that this tendency worries me as much as it does some people who have expressed concern about this matter. I believe that the Government is acting properly in making this increased equity contribution and that it regards the officers of the Bank as being the best people to decide what projects they should assist. 
As has been stated, the IBRD is easily the biggest development finance body in the world, and I for one - and I think the Opposition as a whole - certainly agree to the Bill and to the comments which the Treasurer made in his second reading speech. I was pleased to see his reference to the bipartisan support of the Bank which has existed down the years. Also, I see nothing against the discussions with the IBRD on payments to and from the Bank because of the 'maintenance of value' provisions resulting from the revaluation of the Australian dollar as against the United States dollar. 
The Treasurer and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  referred to the reason why Australia has not taken up the shares previously. The Treasurer in his second reading speech said that it was because of budgetary restraint. But it ought to be mentioned in passing that previously a number of countries - most countries - did not immediately take up their share entitlements. Many of them have since done so, although some have not. I certainly think that the time is now appropriate to take up the share entitlement and, as the honourable member for Gellibrand mentioned, perhaps it could be even a little bit later than it should have been. He emphasised this point, and although he said in another context that he did not want to get into a controversial area, that has not really been noticeable to honourable members on this side of the chamber on other occasions. He has never passed up the opportunity to criticise the Opposition or the previous Government. He did it on this occasion. The situation is, as he said, one of priorities. The present Government took great pride in having introduced 236 Bills into this House last year. So presumably the priority that it attached to this Bill ranked at least 237th or a little lower because some other Bills have already been introduced this session. This is the sort of thing that does not get either side of the House very far. 
The point of his that I want to take up - and I want to speak for only another 2 or 3 minutes - is that in discussing the whole aid question the honourable member for Gellibrand made an impassioned plea for more funds to be spent. He singled out one country - the United States of America - for criticism. I do not know whether that is ideological, but surely we have to recognise the fact that the United States has been the most generous country when it has come to the question of providing assistance in aid and by other means to other countries. 
In aggregate terms, of course it is true. The United States is the country which really came to the rescue of the world after the Second World War in an endeavour to build up demolished economies. But the honourable member picked out that one country which has done much. I am not trying to do any more than to restore some balance to the criticism that has been made. I know perfectly well that in the whole range of aid the United States Congress and the citizens of the United States have some aid fatigue. They have seen some failures and have received a number of insults over the years, and that has had an effect on them. But I think that they have also discovered that providing assistance by way of gifts and loans has had a far less result than they really expected in the first place. In other words, the problem is more difficult than they expected, and 1 think that we should understand that. 
But we also should understand that aid and the use to which it is put is a 2-way process. It is not only a question of the way in which developed countries behave, although I agree with the previous  speaker  when he said that United States aid has not been sufficient. I also believe that the aid given by Australia has not been sufficient. But the behaviour of the recipients is also important. One can point to many political decisions - coups d'etat and other events - which have eaten away at the determination of countries to assist by providing aid. I just make those comments in passing - they could be elaborated on at greater length on another occasion - because of the one-sided presentation and, I suggest, the over-emotional presentation that was made by the honourable member for Gellibrand - unlike the speech of the Treasurer when introducing the Bill. 
I think that what is being done by this Bill is properly part of Australia's responsibility. As I have indicated, I favour an increasing responsibility by Australia in areas of need. 1 take pride in the fact that I referred to that in my first speech in this Parliament and in many speeches since. Australia also has a very substantial interest - and perhaps one that we feel more keenly - in the Asian Development Bank which, after all, deals with an area in which we have a particular responsibility. The Treasurer is not present, presumably because he is unable to be here at the moment. I ask him to explain, either in reply to this debate or preferably in a paper which he might care to prepare, why Australia as yet does not allow either of these banks to raise capital on the Australian market in their borrowing activities. I think they should have entry into this field. It seems to me that if they were permitted to do this it certainly would not aggravate the problem of inflation that we now have. I think the effect would be the reverse. Although it is a minor matter, I think that to make the Australian market available to these banks for the purpose of raising money would further discharge the responsibility that Australia has and increase our assistance in the field of aid. 
The mover of the motion relating to the Address-in-Reply, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  who commenced, as a supporter of the Government in this debate, was one of three people who drafted this motion. Of course, the principal person on that committee of three was the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  so 1 think we can take it for 'granted - particularly in the light of the speech made by the honourable member for Phillip that was so full of praise for the Prime Minister - that he drafted the wording. The last sentence of the motion reads as follows: 
We, their representatives in this House, are grateful for this opportunity to re-affirm our allegiance to you as our Queen. 
For a Prime Minister who has been reported as saying that he sees Australia as a republic one day and who is surely going down that path, to use those words smacks of a little hypocrisy. 
In passing - because I want to come to economic matters in a moment - I think that one ought to point out in the debate that the Government's use of the Queen to promote its party political objectives on this occasion is really despicable. After all, the Speech delivered by the Queen is written by the Government. That is settled constitutional practice and it was the case in this instance. The Speech is written by the Government - actually, by the Prime Minister's staff. So all those references to reform, progressive policies, the alleged shortcomings of previous governments and having a clear mandate for its policies were written by the Prime Minister's staff and were no doubt read and agreed to by him. As the constitutional monarch, the Queen presents the Speech for the Govern.ment. The Government writes its program. But surely in such circumstances and bearing in mind her position some restraint, some objectivity and detachment is called for. I think there was a deliberate attempt made to share in the aura of the Crown by putting into the mouth of the Queen self praise to bolster the Government's standing, a standing which I think is much impaired by so many misjudgments and impractical policies. To use the Queen's Speech in this way surely emphasises the fact that the Government is craving for praise, and repeatedly having to resort to self praise surely shows its weakness. 
The mandate doctrine which is raised so often by the Prime Minister, his Government and its supporters is simply unfounded as a doctrine for the Australian body politic. The Prime Minister, who has the letters *Q.C after his name, knows how false that claim is. I have said before in this House and I will continue to say it. that he cannot name one constitutional authority to support the view that in the last election he received any mandate in the way that he expresses it. I see that the Leader of House  (Mr Daly)  looks up. He also has used the term. He cannot quote one constitutional authority to support the interpretation that the Government is entitled to have all its Bills passed and the policies contained in its policy speech agreed to. 
I take up what to me is the most important feature of that address. I refer to the following words: 
My Government believes the economy is basically strong and buoyant. Nevertheless, it regards inflation as a most urgent domestic problem and will continue its efforts to contain it. It believes the many antiinflationary -measures it has already taken are having an important restraining effect. 
What pious nonsense. If those measures - I will come to them in detail in a moment - are having an important restraining effect, what utter recklessness there must be on the other side when we have at present in this country an inflation rate of 14 per cent. The truth of the matter is that the Government - this includes every Minister and certainly includes the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  - has shown great complacency from the beginning to this problem of inflation. The Prime Minister really makes only a few polite references to inflation from time to time. He is not really interested in it. He really is interested only in cutting some sort of international figure and, of course, his dignity allows him to deal domestically only with the great constitutional questions - not that that endeavour has been marked with much success. It is fortunate that the people have the last say in these matters. 
I think that the Treasurer's attitude must be examined.  His  attitude to inflation is a complacent attitude. Inflation is not a theoretical concept. In fact, it affects everyone in the community. Some people can live with it successfully but inflation certainly creates for the whole community instability and uncertainty and certainly that is not desirable. In extreme conditions the cohesion of the community breaks down. We have seen that happen in the history of some countries. But at present in Australia, the instability in the value of money means, firstly, hardship for the retired - those people on fixed incomes - and a lower real income for those who are not in the militant unions or who do not wish to strike to achieve adequate rises in wages. One can with sympathy see the position of the bank clerks, most of whom I believe did not want to strike in support of their recent wage claim. One can see the pensioners finding that even a $3 increase in pensions is not enough in this period of 13 per cent high inflation. One can see huge expenditure being made in many fields and while it feeds inflation itself, the real value is greatly diminished by the fast depreciating value of money. These are some examples of the damage of inflation. But there are many others. The depreciating value of money encourages a flight into real goods and property in the community, giving rise to increased prices which were unnecessary. The most vivid example of this is the increase in land prices. Another example is that manufacturers take every opportunity to implement price rises whenever they feel that the market will accept it because they fear that future cost increases will catch up with them. So, this economic climate creates a psychological situation in which unnecessary price rises become easier to make. 
I should like to refer to the latest publication of the Chase Manhattan Bank which, when making a very short summary of the economies of the major trading nations of the world had this short but apt comment to make of Australia: 
Shortages of materials and high rate of inflation strain the economy. 
That is what the Chase Manhattan Bank thinks of us. That is their few word summary of our present position and, of course, that publication goes to influential people all over the world. Shortages of goods in the community become widespread as the result of inflation at the level which exists today and eventually - I believe that we see the beginnings of this - artificial shortages arise. The depreciating value of money diminishes incentive; and a loss of productivity at many levels is simply inevitable. Obviously, a significant number of people in Australia today live on welfare payments rather than choose to work. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  publicly acknowledged that fact one or two days ago. Surely it is shocking that the Government could not have seen this in advance but has allowed the situation to arise. The Government now is talking about structural unemployment and that lovely term 'disemployment'. We did not hear any of those esoteric terms in 1972. It is excuse-making. But still we see from the Government vast increases in expenditure, increased numbers of public servants, and mistakes in legislation which the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  says do not matter because we can come back to those later. Surely this is all clear evidence of the lack of care and lack of concern about the consequences of this enthusiastic but careless government. 
The Minister for Labour in a submission during the national wage case hearings last Tuesday said that inflation itself may be inevitable. If he means it is inevitable at its present level of 13 per cent, what an irresponsible attitude to adopt. He is the man who supported a 35-hour week for some industries - in the power and the oil industries. The oil industry already has achieved a 35-hour week and, of course, the flow-on to other industries is irresistable. If the power industry received the 35-hour week there would be an increase in the cost of power alone of some 4 per cent and of course the flow-on from that increase would further increase costs. 
Really, I think it is quite frightening to listen to the complacency of the Treasurer in relation to these maters. In his answers to 3 questions during question time yesterday and in the speech that he made today on the matter of public importance what he put was just stunning Ulogie and looseness. The content of today's speech was appalling. The Treasurer made a number of accusations. Indeed most of his comment consisted of accusations against statements by members of the Opposition. However, he himself did all the things which he accused others of doing. I thought it was obvious from his whole tone and demeanour that he was tremendously upset, personally, by the criticism of his policies which in my view he has rightly received. One must go back a long way to find Treasury advice to all appearances so uninfluential in Cabinet. I believe that one must go back well before Chifley because it is clear from what we see in this House and from what we read in the Press - we know that the Government has a great barrage of Press secretaries to talk to the Press - that Treasury briefs are simply not listened to in the Cabinet of this Government. 
In answer to one question yesterday, the Treasurer set out to enumerate the causes of inflation. He gave 3 causes. The first was the price of meat and the farmers. Well, the farmers are frequent whipping boys in this House. He then mentioned high oil prices. The Treasurer knows very well that Australia is the least affected yet by oil price increases in the world. He mentioned the price of food. I will grant him that commodity prices have risen all over the world, but they are lower here. Yet the rate of inflation in Australia is among the highest in the world. At that point, of course, he could not go on to talk about wage rises. So, he tailed off and abused the Deputy Leader of the Opposition for things that he had said. Now while I agree that there is some truth in the 3 points mentioned by the Treasurer they are not by any means the only significant causes of inflation, nor do they constitute a complete list. Not one word was said about wage rises. There was not a word about all the improved conditions of employment in the fields of holidays and superannuation and the other benefit increases. There was not a word about his Government's encouragement in the Arbitration Court of wage costs beyond the national productivity increase or the encouragement of Public Service wage increases and condition improvements which have got to the point where they greatly compete, indeed I think in many areas unfairly compete, with the needs of the productive private sector. I am not talking now about the wages or salaries and conditions of the First and Second Divisions of the Public Service. I think practically all those men are hard-working, dedicated and entitled to what they get; I am talking about the thousands upon thousands - as a matter of fact, more than 200,000 - clerks and others at lower levels who have received increases out of all proportion to the national increase in productivity. There was not one word from the Treasurer in this reply about Government expenditure on an unprecedented scale, most of which goes to the administrative side of these matters, to the Public Service, and not to production or those directly providing services. 
The Treasurer is very fond of saying that inflation is not new and that it is a world problem. He referred yesterday to periods of unacceptable levels of inflation and he referred to the early Menzies Government in 1949. In 1949 that inflation rate was inherited and the Government of the day took strong measures to combat it. In 1951 as a result of the Korean war excess demands the Government again took firm action. But from 1954 to 1969 - I am sorry to weary the House with some statistics but they are germane - in that 15-year period the average rate of inflation in Australia was  2i  per cent a year. I suggest that that is not a bad record. Since that time and under the previous Government there was an un acceptable level of inflation. Still, at the time the last Government went out, in the quarter ended 31 December 1972, the inflation rate was less than 5 per cent a year. So when we talk about inflation being a world problem let us ask ourselves what that world problem is. 
I suggest that the world problem in the comparable economies that I think we would look at, is an inflation rate of 7 per cent or 8 per cent a year, not 13 per cent or 14 per cent a year. The tone of the Treasurer in these matters is always that he is very concerned but the situation is really all right. He thinks so little of the problem or the result of instability and hardship to many people in the community who cannot defend themselves that he said: 'We will survive if there is 14 per cent, 12 per cent, 10 per cent or less*. It is not a question of surviving at this moment; it is a question of equity. I think what he said was quite irresponsible and needs to be pointed up. Throughout last year we heard his speeches on this subject. In the autumn session while speaking to the Appropriation Bill he said, when warned about inflation by the Opposition, that we were taking the inflation rate for a quarter and multiplying it by four to get a yearly percentage and that that was a great mistake and we could not do it. The fact of the matter is that multiplying by four the figure for the first quarter gave us a more conservative result than we have today. In May last year I could not believe that inflation would ever rise over 10 per cent a year in Australia, but it has exceeded that rate by almost half as much again. 
What has the Government done? The Reserve Bank has called up more funds. The Government has reduced tariffs by 25 per cent and there have been some up-valuations in the currency, none of which, I suggest, was done to affect inflation. Those are very long-term measures. Yet the Government trots them out each time as though they were urgently implemented to combat inflation. As a matter of fact the Treasury witnesses in evidence given to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices said that it would take 2 years to see whether these measures had any effect. How can one call those anti-inflationary measures? The Government also talks about the legislation to be introduced on restrictive trade practices. We have not seen that yet. That is hardly something that will make an immediate impact. Then there was the Prime Minister's effort - it was a sincere effort - to affect interest rates. But of course the Australian Labor Party Caucus spoilt all that and made a mess of that policy as an antiinflationary measure. That increase was made in the teeth of longstanding Labor Party policy, but it was also made because of the need to raise funds, and because of international pressures. The move had a minute effect on inflation. Of much greater effect has been the vast expenditure by this Government and the increase in the Public Service which are just feeding the fires of inflation and defeating other worthwhile objectives of the Government. What we have seen is an excessive reliance on monetary policy but a lack of real antiinflationary policy by the Government, which is in absolute contrast to the words in the Queen's Speech written by the Prime Minister's staff. 
Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy confirm a recent report in the 'West Australian' that he has agreed that natural gas from the north-west shelf will not now be piped to the Palm Valley gas field in the Northern Territory but to the southwest and goldfields of Western Australia? Has he now agreed to leave Western Australia out of his proposed national grid? Is it true that he recently gave a commitment to accept a plan of the Western Australian Government to keep the gas within that State? If this is so, has he been overruled by someone and can he give an assurance to the House that the decision will not be reversed after the State election? 
Parts of this debate seem to have developed into putting the pros and cons before the people of Western Australia of their election which is to take place on Saturday week. 
As my colleague the honourable member for North Sydney has said, that is not terribly surprising. I suppose it is also incumbent upon me as a member from Western Australia to make one or two comments on the speech that was just delivered by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  I believe that in his remarks about the election campaign in Western Australia and his comments on  Sir Charles  Court the honourable member did really less than credit to  Sir Charles  Court who is Leader of the Opposition in the Western Australian Parliament. 

 Sir Charles Court is surely a man who by any standards has achieved a great deal in terms of what he set out to achieve. I think that his record as one interested in pursuing industrial development for his State can be compared favourably with that of anyone in the world.  Sir Charles  was the Minister for Railways. I suppose that this is one area which one would not associate to any great extent with this record. As Minister for Railways  Sir Charles  Court improved the efficiency of that organisation tremendously. I think that he will be remembered by many unionists, who perhaps would not want to say so publicly, as a man who modernised the railway system and increased the morale of railway employees. In my view  Sir Charles  Court deserves a medal for that achievement alone. However much one might disagree with his objectives and methods - in our political system many people do disagree on these matters - it is certainly true that he is a man of tremendous capacity and vigour. 
I want to make one or two comments about what has been said in regard to the vexed question of Federal-State relations. One would not imagine for a moment that this question can be resolved easily one way or the other. The federal system in which the government in Canberra and the governments in the States each play a part is being changed in favour of the government in Canberra. The States consider - and I believe that this is the case - that they now have fewer rights, less power and less room to manoeuvre. This is what the whole question is about. One can point to a phrase in an electoral advertisement and say: T do not agree with that; that is an oversimplification'. But that is part of a price that one pays for trying to simplify a matter which could appear in an advertisement during any election. 
I want to make some brief points about Federal-State relations. Liberal Party leaders - Premiers of the States in which the Liberal Party or the Liberal and Country Party are in office and leaders of the opposition in the other States - have agreed that the contest which they had in the years when the LiberalCountry Party was in government in Canberra, particularly in respect of financial matters, will be resolved in a way that will leave the States with much more room for decision making than they had previously. My opponent from Perth says: 'Well, that is not very well defined*. I agree with him - it is not very well defined. 
The point I want to make to the House is that this question is in the process of being defined. We are determined to define it; we have committed ourselves to finding a definition. It is pretty obvious that the answer, as put forward by the supporters of the Federal system, cannot be that everything should be centralised in the national interest. Alternatively the answer cannot be that everything should be decided in the State capitals. Either solution would not be in the best public interest. The real answer is that this matter requires a balance. 
Let me just illustrate some points. Clearly, matters related to the Treasury and foreign affairs must be centralised in Canberra. But why should regional planning, transport and education - I am afraid I cannot chase that hare any further - be decided in Canberra, even to the extent that they are being centralised at present? I do not think that this is a problem for Australia only. It is a world wide problem. I do not think that this is a problem for governments only. It is a problem for any large organisation, and certainly anyone who knows anything about the internal organisation of large companies, international companies, knows that they have exactly the same problem. If they wish to be successful organisations they attempt to achieve a proper balance between the things which are better run from the centre and the things which are better run in a decentralised way. There can never be a complete, convincing answer as to how that balance should be arrived at. Even if it were arrived at one moment, circumstances will change. Australia has seen a development in which more and more power is going to the centre, to the detriment, I believe, in many cases of good decision making.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you come from Tasmania. I am sure that you will appreciate that point as keenly as does any man in this House. I have made that point. 
The honourable member for Perth, further, made some remarks about  Sir Charles  Court.  Sir Charles  has certain attributes to which I referred earlier. I point out to honourable members that a reading of the policy speech of  Sir Charles  shows him to be a man who is taking a much wider view today of affairs in the State, going beyond industrial development and so on, in which he was actively engaged previously. He is a positive man, and as leader of a Western Australian government, as I fully expect him to be after the election on 30 March, he will not be, as we have had for the last 3 years, a leader of a do-nothing government but he will be a leader of a vigorous government which is earnestly attempting to find - practical solutions which will increase standards of living in the widest sense. 
This Bill permits a wide debate. It seeks approval for the appropriation of nearly $1 70,000m,. It is one of several Bills which must necessarily be passed through Parliament each year, and that is normal in the sense that funds are required and are authorised by Parliament in a series of Bills for the payment of government services such as welfare, grants to the States, administration, defence and so on. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said, the Opposition supports the Bill. It provides us, however, with an opportunity to discuss any matter covered by the Bill, which is practically anything. I think that most members will want to talk about the economy in general. I certainly do. Because this Bill is one of a number which vastly increases the expenditure by the Australian Government this year compared with last year and previous years it provides, as all the Bills do, for a great increase in the number of Public Service positions which I think is an increase out of all sense, out of all proportion, with what this country and its productive elements should be asked to support. It is part of the measures which are creating in this country inflation at a rate which is much greater than it should be. 
I wish to speak a little about inflation, and about what I suggest that the Government might consider because certainly there has been a lot of talk about it and certainly it is a condition with which many people can live, and certainly it creates in the whole community a situation of instability and of wondering whether savings will be eroded to an impossible extent. Taken to extremes, though we are certainly not at that stage yet, it  can  undermine the whole constitution and the stability of the nation. We have read examples in history. The Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  profess considerable concern about it. The concern is usually expressed in terms of those who suffer hardship. Those who suffer hardship are those who cannot, live easily with inflation because they are, in one sense or another, underprivileged. They may be pensioners; they may be people trying to live on fixed incomes which are the result of their savings or which come from other sources; they may be unionists who do not like to go out on strike because for them that is not the right way to go about things; or they may be unionists who belong to a union which is not in a position to act in a militant way or at any rate does not think that is the proper behaviour. So I say that inflation affects adversely the people who are least able to help themselves. So it is that when pensioners receive an increase of S3 a week, as was announced last week, that S3 at the rate of inflation of 13 per cent a year or so can be worth far less to them than was the 50c or $1 given some years ago at the prices which were then current. 
Frequently the Treasurer comes into this House and when challenged on this matter - I emphasise 'challenged' because he never raises it - is inclined to read out a little speech. I think he knows it off by heart by now. He says: 'Yes, the Government is concerned'. But he does not say it in a way that sounds very convincing. He also says: "The Government has done many things. It has reduced interest rates, upvalued the currency and reduced tariffs generally by 25 per cent, and it will bring in restrictive trade practices legislation'. Let us examine those actions very briefly. The interest rate monetary measure was correct. But it was only one measure. By the way, reliance on monetary policy can be shunted off, in the main, to the Reserve Bank. But, of course, the Caucus of the Australian Labor Party sabotaged that measure. As a monetary measure, it has been largely ineffective for that reason. 
The Government certainly made 2 upvaluations of the currency - in fact three in a sense. It certainly reduced tariffs by 25 per cent. But they are long term measures. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  well knows, the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices is examining whether they have had much effect at all. Some of the evidence that has been given to us - I believe I am right in attributing this to a Treasury witness - is that we cannot be sure whether upvaluations and tariff reductions will have any effect on prices for another 2 years. So, to cite those actions as measures that the Government has taken to dampen the inflation rate is really to cite something on which no reliance at all can be placed. It is doubtful whether those actions will have an effect; and, if they do, it will be small and long term. 
As for talking about legislation that is to be introduced - I think the trade practices legislation was introduced only the other day - when the Government has already introduced about 250 pieces of legislation, I can only say that it has not given the legislation much priority. Of course, when the legislation is introduced its effect will be very small. The Government never talks about cost increases which come from wage rises, from conditions improvements, from increases in Government expenditure and from the increases in the Public Service. I am talking not about the First and Second Division officers who I believe in the great majority of cases are hard working and thoroughly worth their money, but about the thousands of public servants in the lower levels. I remind the House that the number of Commonwealth public Servants exceeds 250,000 at this moment. 
Those are the areas, of course, that are having the greatest impact, although not the only impact. I emphasise this to the Government because of the number of times we are misquoted. They are the major issues. Certainly prices are an aspect. Certainly imported goods prices are an issue. Certainly in this climate some manufacturers unfairly take the opportunity to raise prices. But, of course, their rationale is expressed: 'If we do not take the opportunity, what will become of our enterprises when costs are rising as they are and there is so much uncertainty?' So in Australia we have a considerable 'inflation psychology' which this Government is not taking adequate means to combat. 
This was referred to in passing by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  the other day, but since he is not in the House I will not chase him on that point at this time. 
But the excessive reliance that the Government has placed on monetary policy has really got to be pointed out as being an abdication of its responsibilities, because there are a number of fiscal measures which it could take. It has failed not only to take them but even to mention them. In answering a question in this House last week about the causes of inflation, the Treasurer started off in a very desultory fashion and said: 'Well, there are meat prices, and of course the rural products - '. He then tailed off and started to abuse the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, without once mentioning wage rises, the Public Service and government expenditure as being the costpush part of the equation. The Government has not adopted any real, urgent antiinflationary policy. As I said last week - it must be repeated - the Treasurer's attitude to this matter is one of complacency. He pays lip service to the problem but he will not do anything about it. 
Benign interest, as my colleague from Wakefield says. If one looks at the Speech made by the Queen in the Senate 2 weeks ago - the Speech was written by the staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - one sees the comment that 'the Government believes the many anti-inflationary measures it has already taken are having an important restraining effect'. 
If the measures it has taken have had an important restraining effect and results in 13 per cent, my God, what would the inflation rate have been if it had not taken those measures? Obviously they have had very little effect. 
In the few minutes still available to me I want to suggest to the House a demand management and prices-incomes policy that could be adopted by the Government. The Treasurer has not suggested any such policy and I have heard challenges from the other side that perhaps something should be suggested. I am going to suggest a package but at the same time add the qualification that no research resources were granted to me. I recognise that inflation is a difficult problem. I do not suggest for a moment that we are completely isolated from international influences. The weighing up of the problem that is necessary is, in part, a technical study, but further large increases in the inflation rate and in prices, which will affect every member of this community, will be quite inevitable if we go along as before. So what I suggest' is, firstly, that the Reserve Bank of Australia should tighten liquidity to a greater extent than it has done. Secondly, I suggest that the Government cut its expenditure,, particularly as I have said, in the lower levels of the Public Service, and that there should be a cessation of the creation of new positions in the Public Service. There are, of course, many items that could be cut out of the Budget. I have heard the gentlemen on the other side of the House say: 'What would you cut out?' I say this to those people: If I am given adequate staff and the right of entry into the departments I will make the recommendations all right - no trouble at all. But do not ask me to look at the summary statements, with no assistance whatever, and invite me to do that. 
I make the suggestion that the allowance made for the national pipeline, or pipe dream or whatever it is, should be cut out. That represents an amount of $50m just for a start. My third suggestion is that the Prime Minister should endeavour to get the States together on some sort of temporary and voluntary freeze on prices and wages. That method of breaking the spiral has not been tried. But I agree that such a freeze should not be left on for too long. Fourthly, the Government should actively discourage, instead of encouraging, wage rises which are above the national average productivity rate. The Government has even gone to the extent of encouraging these rises in the arbitration courts. Finally, it should discourage the great increases in the salaries and conditions of public servants below the Second Division level. A responsible government would implement demand management and a pricesincomes policy if it faced up to the injustices of many of the most vulnerable in the present situation and the insecurity of the nation as a whole. 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Duthie)Order!  Before I call the honourable member for Shortland, I want to point out to honourable members that they have a duty when leaving or entering this chamber to pay respect to the Chair. I have been here nearly an hour and half of the members who have left this place did not pay respect to the Chair. I hope this message gets through to the other  Deputy  Speakers in this place and that they will similarly direct the attention of honourable members to this matter. 
This afternoon my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  stated the Opposition's objection to this motion. As  Deputy Chairman  of the Public Works Committee and as a former Minister for Works he spoke of the damage done to the independence of the Committee. I am not a member of the Committee. I am however a Western Australian and I think that I know something about this project. So I take this opportunity of saying that . I, too, oppose the motion for the reasons that I shall outline. I believe first and foremost that this is a bad plan. Of course, the reason for raising this matter at the moment is that it has been put to the Public Works Committee in most ususual circumstances. Those unusual circumstances are that the Commonwealth does not have any land tenure over the site at present and there is no documentation ready for the Committee to examine. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  who has just spoken, said that the reference of this work to the Public Works Committee would be a method of stimulating discussion about the project. I thought that in some respects he presented a balanced picture of the project. But of course, there are many ways of starting a discussion. Indeed discussion in Perth hardly needs stimulating because the whole matter is a raging controversy. 
Very well. But I am just saying that there are many fora available for such a discussion and that this is a particularly inappropriate one. 
Let me say quickly that it is proposed to build across Forrest Place in Perth, a traditional open space area in the centre of the city for which there is much public sentiment and attachment, a building to house, not a post office, but an administrative part of the Postal Department. That would be the equivalent of constructing a building across Martin Place in Sydney. I would hope that such a concept would not commend itself to any great degree to honourable members from New South Wales, lt has been said or implied by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and others that this proposal has been agreed to by all 3 parties. I emphasise at the beginning that it has not been agreed to by the Perth City Council. As I said, the Commonwealth has no land tenure. What exists is an agreement in principle between the Commonwealth, the State of Western Australia and the Lord Mayor of Perth and I think, as my opponent pointed out, the town planner. But it certainly does not have the agreement of the Perth City Council which unanimously carried the following resolution at a meeting last Monday: 
That the Perth City Council wishes to advise ratepayers that any areas under ownership, care or control will not be authorised in the redevelopment of Forrest Place until the people have had adequate time for study and comment on any of the proposals for the future of that area. 
This resolution was carried with acclamation and unanimity before the mover or the seconder could complete their addresses in support of it. I repeat that the Commonwealth has no tenure to the land and this has been regarded as a basic necessity before items can be referred to the Public Works Committee. 
As I said, the proposed building is to be an administrative centre. Has this matter been put forward, for instance, because the Prime Minister, as my friend from Wakefield has already pointed out, is speaking of this as something that he has decided and he has settled on? Apparently we are not to worry about what the Public Works Committee may decide. Has this proposal been referred, for instance, to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who takes such an interest in questions of decentralisation? Why does this building have to be slap bang in the middle of the city of Perth? Why cannot it be located in the suburbs or in the country regions such as Bunbury or Northam? The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  says there is structural unemployment in the country. Why cannot this administrative centre of the Post Office be located in such areas? 
A sketch of this proposed building has been published in the local newspapers. I believe - of course this must be a subjective judgment - that it is an ugly building. I appeal to honourable members from New South Wales because there are so many more of them here to imagine a building of this sort placed in the middle of Martin Place. The suggestion has been made that in order for the building to have a northern vista, 2 floors of the building will be clad in glass. Really, how ludicrous can one be? The proposal is for this glass to be tinted. But, of course, the glass will create reflections which will cut off the northern aspect altogether. I can only say that the sketch is completely out of keeping with the Forrest Place area. The honourable member for Perth said: 'Well, you know, this is something to be debated; it is something for the future'. I do not think that we can regard this matter quite that lightly. 
I would like to quote to honourable members what was said by the honourable member for Perth on 19 March this year. At page 580 of Hansard, referring to this matter very briefly, he is reported as saying:  . . it is an exciting concept not only because of the facility it will provide but because of the rare degree of Commonwealth, State and local government co-operation which it represents. 
I have made the point that the Perth City Council as a body has not yet agreed to the proposal. He went on to say: 
The Perth City Council will provide the present Forrest Place and the Commonwealth will contribute the very valuable and strategic Padbury Building site. 
That is what is promised. I will come back to this in just a moment. A little earlier in his speech the honourable member said: 
In respect of planning detail, the proposal is now the subject of quite heated debate. 
Well, you can say that again,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It certainly is. But surely we are not saying that to put a building across the northern entrance of Forrest Place and lock that area off is a detail. 
Because I have only a few minutes left of the time available to me in this debate I would like to quote what has been said in Forrest Place. This is an area which we members of Parliament know fairly well because at election time we stand on a platform there and harangue anybody who is, perhaps, foolish enough to come along. On 17 November 1972 - honourable members will recognise that as a date just before the last Federal elections - the present Prime Minister made a speech in Forrest Place in which he said: 
The ALP will create a central city plaza in Forrest Place. 
He went on to say: 
Any Commonwealth Government looking at expansion and the future of Perth would like to see a thoroughly adequate and beautiful square in the centre of the city. 
He said that the Commonwealth's rent from the Padbury Building was only $12,500 per annum. That was less than the cost of an average house. He said: 
I believe that the Commonwealth could afford to forego that contribution. 
Of course, the whole implication of that statement is that the Commonwealth - his Government - would give something. There was not the slightest suggestion that anything would be taken away - the northern part of the street or the open area. Those words clearly envisaged demolishing the Padbury Building and turning what is a wide and short street, although the nearest thing that Perth has to a public centre, into a square. So the proposal to construct a building which the Prime Minister has put forward in a recent Press statement as policy does not accord with the original promise. 
I point out in passing that the opposition to this proposal has been stated in the clearest terms. I do not suggest that it is unanimous, otherwise there would hardly be a controversy. But certainly there is one. I refer now very quickly to the headlines in editions of the 'West Australian' newspaper last month. Some of the headlines are: 'Doubt over plan for city centre', 'Black hole', 'New concept for Forrest Place'. This comment appeared in the editorial of that newspaper: 
The proposals released yesterday of redevelopment of Forrest Place will come as a bitter disappointment to those who believe that the plaza should be part of an unbroken and harmonious link between the city and the planned cultural centre to the north. 
There was a promise by the Leader of the Opposition not to proceed with the plan. One journalist heads his article 'PS will be in the way', and the opening paragraph of the article following reads: 
If there is any land in Perth sacred to Western Australians, it is Forrest Place and environs. 
The New Heart for Perth Society is totally opposed to the proposal. So one comes to the clear conclusion that this matter is put forward today, the last sitting day of this House before the Western Australian State eelctions on Saturday week, as a blatant political move, like that national gas business of the last few days. When one looks at the files and cuttings one realises that these matters are raised only at election time - in December or November 1972 and now early in 1974. I believe that the debate exposes the fact that the motion is completely a party political manoeuvre which is solely in the interests of helping the Labor Party in the elections on Saturday week. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  made a party political speech which was a hotchpotch of economics and misrepresentation. I would like to take up 2 major points which he made. Of course Australia today has an over-full surplus in its trading account, particularly for the conditions of today, which are very different conditions from those which applied IS months or 18 months or 2 years ago. The question of attendance at finance meetings is nothing new. For years Treasurers have been, quite properly, to meetings not only of this Committee of Twenty but also associated bodies. I read the Treasurer's statement carefully and I heard him make it. I believe that in general it is a good statement and I congratulate him upon it. It is not particularly full, bearing in mind the complexity of the issues involved. To take the issues into account fully would require a statement of very great length which I think would be tedious for many honourable members. The Treasurer has tabled the speeches which he made at meetings of world finance bodies, and those speeches are available for perusal. He might consider tabling a document on some of the issues which have been taken up today - particularly by speakers from the Opposition side; I do not think that he has yet received any suggestions from honourable members on his side - so that we may see what are the major and immediate policies of the Government. 
I have undertaken to speak for no longer than S minutes today so I regret that I will have to be reasonably brief. The first matter to which I shall refer is the speech of the Treasurer last week. when he said, referring to the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund: 
Meanwhile work will proceed on other main aspects of reform with a view to having all work completed by June 1974. These aspects include rules for floating, tits role of gold, the link between SDR creation and development finance, and so on. It will net be possible to reach agreement on all these matters by June 1974 but I do not believe that should necessarily be regarded as a bad thing. 
A little later on he said: 
Monetary reform will become a matter of evolution rather than declaration and we have always believed that is the way it should be. 
Earlier he said: 
This is not to say that monetary reform, as such, has been forgotten. Work will continue on it. But priority will be given to those aspects of reform relevant to recent developments in the world economy. 
I can say only that it is an extremely tactful way of referring to monetary reform to say that it has not been forgotten. One can say only: 'Yes, but it is very far off.' There is certainly a great body of opinion around the world, particularly in Europe to my certain knowledge, that there will not be any real monetary reform. Indeed as the Treasurer has said, as it has been said widely in Europe in recent months, anything that had been agreed - supposing that there had been the will to agree - before the oil crisis of OctoberNovember last year would have had to be scrapped. 
In December and January last I had the opportunity of visiting and speaking with governors of central banks and with senior executives of commercial banks in all the major European capitals and in Washington. Therefore I am able to compare the Treasurer's statements with their views. I am happy to say that, in the main, his views are in agreement with their assessment of the situation. Further, there is some belief in the IMF that the 2 questions raised at the January meeting which has been referred to were really the 2 smallest issues that could have been put on an agenda. What is in fact happening is a lot of talk which has, I suppose, the appearance of genuine negotiation but which is not achieving very much and is not likely to achieve very much. Therefore it is inescapable to conclude that there is to a large extent an_avoidance of real issues. The Committee's position on exchange rate policy, which has been referred to as 'stable but adjustable par values', only underlines that this is a formula as a result of trying to put together in one statement conflicting views, which are in fact unresolved conflicts. The greatest advocate of fixed parity - France - is now floating its currency. So flexibility is on the rise, but what restraints are left? 
So one can ask: What will be the standard of the on-going discussion? How much real attempt and political will is there to reach an agreement? There have been discussions for many years, and certainly nothing will be determined by June 1974. There never was a chance of it. The Treasurer's statement about managing and adapting the monetary system' must be seen against that background. Nevertheless I think that the Treasurer's statement shows concern about the position and his own desire to have some improvements effected. I recognise that he cannot be any more blunt than he has been in putting forward views which are compatible with Australia's interests, considering the weight of the office which he holds. 
I found the speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in introducing this Bill curious and disappointing. I notice that hardly any reference has been made to the Australian Development Assistance Agency, which is the subject of this Bill, by supporters of the Government. They have confined themselves to speaking about foreign aid in general. One could link in that respect the speeches of honourable members who spoke recently on the International Monetary Agreements Bill which made certain provisions with respect to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
Let me refer to the aspects I have in mind. The Prime Minister made great play, as he usually does when talking about foreign aid, about the percentage of gross national product that Australia and other countries spend on foreign aid. As the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, pointed out, that surely is almost an irrelevancy. It is a debating point rather not substance of the matter. The percentage of gross national product which is devoted by Australia to foreign aid I believe is a favourable one. But the concept is a United Nations one and has little to do with the humanitarian aspect, which is the most important objective of foreign aid. 
What really emerges from the Prime Minister's speech on this occasion, as on others, is concern with how Australia's foreign aid looks to the rest of the world and to members of his own Party rather than what he is doing about the problem. I say, by way of an aside, that that seems to me to be much the Prime Minister's attitude to problems concerning Aborigines. Aborigines, after all, live in our country but aid to them is almost analogous to foreign aid because they are a different people and are mostly a separate people. 
The Prime Minister said nothing much in his speech of what his Government would do.  His  speech dealt with the structure. Indeed, he seems to have a pre-occupation with structure and detail. The Prime Minister loves to talk about details, dates, page numbers and that sort of thing. Let me highlight the main part of his second reading speech. As reported at page 278 of Hansard of 12 March 1974, the Prime Minister said: 
The decision to reorganise the administration of our economic aid programs is based on the view that improvements in aid must be effected in almost all aspects of our aid endeavours - in the machinery for formulating policy,, in ensuring greater attention to the welfare and distributive effects of our aid, in evaluating the effectiveness of our various schemes, in bringing greater expertise into our staffing arrangements and in more directly associating the community with the program. 
Those aims are important. But why could not the Department of Foreign Affairs deal with them? In fact it has been engaged in this work for years. If the standard is not high enough, then as head of government he should improve it without going into yet another field for statutory corporation. The whole question of ministerial responsibility is involved. It is another proposal by the Government to set up a statutory body which, in a sense, will hide behind the Minister from the people and protect the Minister from certain criticism. In saying this I disassociate any criticism from  Mr Johnson  who has been appointed director. This is a policy decision of the Government itself. I have every confidence, as have my colleagues, in  Mr Johnson's  capacity and objectivity. However I make the point that the Prime Minister's whole speech is designed to describe a structure. Very little argument - in fact none - has been presented to show that the agency will do the job any more efficiently than could the Department isself. The Bill provides for another of these bodies unaccountable to Parliament in practice. This is what such bodies become. I instance the Council for the Arts. 
The honourable member has made his speech; I will make mine. Every representation made to the Minister is sent to the Council for a reply which comes back and is automatically signed by the Minister. If the honourable member can show me one illustration of any variation being made by the Prime Minister with respect to advice from the Council of the Arts I shall be interested to see it. I think the Prime Minister produced one reason for the proposed agency. He said that the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea is in favour of it. The Prime Minister actually made that statement. Good heavens, fancy the recipient of such vast sums as Australia proposes to make available to Papua New Guinea, saying anything critical of the structure through which Australia decides to disburse aid. Naturally the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea said that he hopes to get on well with the agency. Of course he would say it. That is a ridiculous argument and the fact that the Prime Minister introduced it as some sort of support indicates the weak ground he is on. 
Turning to discuss foreign aid in a more general way, I think it is clear that the result of the aid that has been supplied by donor countries has been much less effective than was hoped, certainly at the end of the Second World War and as short a period ago as 10 to IS years. That is not the fault of the aid itself. The emotionalism and the idealism which existed and prompted the provision of that aid was proper but the aid has been of limited value, firstly because the complexity of the issues have been difficult to overcome. There have been interlocking social, political and economic forces at work and the task turned out to be far greater than people imagined. Indeed I think that every gain that has been made - they have been relatively few - has only uncovered a new layer of problems. Yet .it is in the nature of man, fortunately, to try to overcome problems and to find a new and better way. I hope that Australia continues to give a higher and higher priority to helping countries less fortunate than it. Of course that involves the majority of countries. 
The second reason that aid has not been as effective as one would have hoped has been the attitude of the donor countries and the recipient countries. Experience has shown that donor countries have been inclined to be rather patronising and rather remote. They have been preoccupied with the image they were creating rather than the effect the aid was having. I am sure this applies to our Prime Minister. There was and is a lack of understanding by all of us concerning the best method to employ in determining how money can best be used. I think there has been a propensity to try to supervise from afar and this has not been of enough use. I think there is a resistance by representatives of donor governments in countries in really getting down to grips with the problems. They see themselves in a supervisory role. Might I say, as an aside, that I do not think it will help this major aspect of our foreign policy if we make the provision of great embassies and residences in all the countries that we have recognised and are recognising. This will create a barrier between our representatives in those countries and the people of them. I hope that this comment appeals to the Minister for Overseas Trade  Pr  J. F. Cairns), who is sitting at the table, since he frequently takes the part of the less fortunate people - the lower income groups - in various countries. I hope that we will not get into a situation where our representatives who, in the past, have been reasonably close to a wide range of classes and income groups in other countries, cut them off and join the international diplomatic group of sophisticates which is so unliked around the world. 
I think that the recipients of aid also have made a number of errors. They certainly have not always used that aid for the best economic purposes. All too frequently they have allowed overriding political influences. They have not hesitated to insult governments, personalities and public figures of donor countries. This can hardly help in a world where personal contacts have an effect. Frequent coup d'etat and other political events have eroded the desire of many countries to give aid. In the United States of America this is called aid fatigue. It is certainly an important influence on the United States Congress at present and on other donor countries. It allows those elements in the community who like to say that we should not give so much, more of a debating point and it helps to hold back the flow of worthwhile investment and other aid. Another reason is that much of the aid that has been given has had to be used for urgent and immediate purposes. In other words, it has been used for direct consumption, usually in conditions when one could hardly resist such use, rather than in investment avenues which would be far better and of more lasting use. 
One would hope to see all aid go into some capital investment category but, unfortunately because of national tragedies, that simply is not possible. However it does break down the effectiveness of aid. Sometimes, too, the recipient countries have not been sufficiently self-reliant. They have been inclined to see themselves as being continuing recipients forever and a day and they have not put the aid to the best use. All these things indicate that donors and recipients can improve their behaviour, their relationships with another and make aid more effective. I come back to my introductory point that the money that has been spent is entirely justified. Certainly in Australia and in other countries the amount provided has been far too small. The seriousness of the situation can hardly be exaggerated. It has been emphasised by every  speaker  with the exception of the Prime Minister. The gap which is widening has been alluded to by speakers from both sides of the House. 
Poverty and degradation have been mentioned. The honourable member for Kooyong mentioned that the struggle for survival was estimated to involve about one billion people by the end of this decade and 2 billion by 1990. Clearly no matter how much the people of Australia may wish to ignore it at times, the problem simply will not go away. It is made worse by the lack of success of aid and the disillusionment that exists in donor countries. 
The vastness of the problem is affected by world wide inflation at various rates - Australia, of course, has the dubious honour of being one of the leaders in this field - by the oil and energy shortage and particularly by the oil price rise. Some suggestions have been made. I noted the other day a Dow Jones report of a suggestion by the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund that serious consideration should be given to recycling Arab oil earnings. He put forward the view that the IMF, as the middle man, should encourage the Arabs to invest their earnings in their customers' countries. That suggestion was made in an endeavour to help less developed countries. It has received some pretty severe criticism from some American Treasury officials. But there are world bodies which are endeavouring to grapple with these problems. The international monetary instability in another difficulty which helps to widen the gap as do the balance of payments deficits and surpluses imbalance with which the Treasurer dealt last week in his speech. AH those aspects are detrimental mainly to the less developed countries. I noted that the Treasurer, in his statement on International Monetary Reform which he made after his visit to the Committee of Twenty, referred to this very briefly - in fact too briefly. It may well be that he may see fit to elaborate on the Government's policy in this area in order to make up somewhat for the lack of any specific statement in the Prime Minister's introduction of this Bill. I think it is in the interests of the whole of Australia and certainly of this 
House to know what the Government's view and policy are in relation to that most serious matter. 
In debating this Bill yesterday the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  pointed up the problems as he saw them and again, with very little, if any, allusion to the subject of the Bill which is the structure of the Australian Development Assistance Agency, he criticised many things. He went out of his way to quote economists who had made some criticism of the World Bank and the IMF style, whatever that is. It is pretty easy to criticise these bodies. Certainly one would be expecting a lot to expect bodies like that to be 100 per cent effective. But I do not think that approach really gets us very far, with due respect to the honourable member. Of all the donor countries that could be considered, of all the countries with a strong gross national product, he singled out for criticism the United States, as did the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in a speech on the International Monetary Agreements Bill. I dealt with the criticism that I made of the honourable member for Gellibrand the other day. If that is not ideologically influenced I do not know what is because there are plenty of other countries that one could criticise. To point out the United States - a country which has been most generous in its aid around the world - is, I think, to look at the matter with ideological blinkers. Both those honourable members and also the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  in that earlier debate emphasised the urgency and the need for aid policies but where  in  this statement made by the Prime Minister is there any indication of his policies? What he has done has been just to present us with a shell. There is nothing of substance before us. There are no guidelines on methods of development aid. There are no views on the types of aid. There is no indication of the Government's policy on the level of aid in Australian currency. To me the strong indication is that this is just another show. It is dramatisation for domestic political purposes and international public relations purposes. The problem surely is much more serious and deserves far more attention than that. I do not believe that the Prime Minister's speech enhances the Government's position. Not one of the  Government  supporters who expressed such emotion in favour of more urgent aid had the courage of his convictions to criticise the Prime Minister. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  misrepresented me several times in his closing remarks. I will deal with only one of them. He said that in my speech I had been patronising to the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. If he reads Hansard when it is published tomorrow it will be quite clear to him that what I was referring to was what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in introducing the Bill. He said that the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  had said that he looks forward to a fruitful and friendly relationship with the Agency. The point I made was that inserting that into the speech was no argument for the support of the view that the Agency was worth while and that it should be put forward by the Government. It was simply a statement which one would fully expect to be made by the chief minister or prime, minister of a country which was a recipient or potential recipient of Australian aid. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer given by the Attorney-General in April 1973 in reply to a question asking whether the Attorney-General had carried out any examination of the recommendations of the Manning Report into the operation of the Bills of Exchange Act and, in particular, recommendations that the law relating to cheques be covered in a separate Cheques Act, what has been the result of the further consideration which has been given this and other recommendations. 
If the consideration is not yet concluded, when will it be. 
Will the Attorney-General ensure that full determination of these long outstanding matters is made in 1974. 
This proposal, put by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  on behalf of the Redistribution Commissioners provides for 10 seats for Western Australia in the House of Representatives. This situation is caused by the relative increase in population in Western Australia as compared with the other States. The Minister who is responsible to the Parliament for this particular area - in spite of the fact that the Commissioners enjoy an independent position and have come to their conclusions and recommendations independently - mentioned in his opening remarks the possibility that the people of Western Australia may be required to vote for the House of Representatives earlier than the Distribution Commissioners may have expected. I think that admission should be pointed out immediately. It is clear from the tone of his argument that the Government is fully expecting an election. The Opposition certainly welcomes it. Indeed, it has precipitated it, despite the reluctance that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is showing in certain areas. 
Of course it is. On television last Thursday night when the Prime Minister was asked whether he would proceed with an election if the Appropriation Bills were passed by the Senate he said 'no*. So let us not have any talk about the Government welcoming an election. The Prime Minister earlier may have called an election but he chose not to do so. I know that some Government supporters are nervous. I can understand why the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  should be nervous. He has a charming smile, but he is nervous. 
The history of this matter is fairly long, but I shall refer to it only briefly. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  will be discussing this aspect because in the previous Government he was the Minister responsible for this field. There was a lot of criticism by present Government supporters when they were in Oppo- sition of the fact that no redistribution was carried out to allow for 10 seats in Western Australia for the 1972 general elections. It is clear from the statement at that time of the present member for Gwydir that the timetable just did not permit it. The necessary procedures would have prevented it. 
I make one additional political point. In my view, and the view of Liberals in Western Australia, if the redistribution could have been achieved before the December 1972 elections it probably would have been to our benefit. After all, the Liberal and Country Parties at that time held only 3 of the 9 seats. If there had been a redistribution with any fairness in it at all - I should have fully expected that - we must have increased our proportion of the seats. The whole idea of saying to the people - of course, it was intended to serve a Labor Party political purpose - that we were delaying that distribution was absurd. We would have improved our position to either 5 to 5 or 6 to 4. On the basis of the results as they came out, I think it was more likely to have been 6 to 4 because after the December 1972 elections the Liberal and Country Party had 5 seats and the Labor Party only 4. I point out that since the current system of elections came into being for the Senate in 1949, Western Australia has never returned more than 2 Labor senators out of 5 at an election. In other words the Labor Party has always been in the minority. The honourable member for Gwydir may see fit to allude in more detail to the matter of timetable. I suppose that at this stage it is only history but so much was made of it both before and after the election that it is high time some rebuttal was offered. 
The Opposition accepts these proposals. It is true that the Liberal Party was one party - I believe the Labor Party was another - which offered some objections to the proposals. In the case of the Liberal Party they were relatively minor objections. The law provides that when the original proposals are made, objections can be lodged. A great number of people did lodge objections which were examined by the Commissioners who brought down their final report which we see today and which provides for minute variations in the borders of some of the divisions. It is a pity that these differences have not been spelt out clearly in the report. I go further and suggest that future Commissioners might make clear what are the amendments, no matter how minor they may be, so that honourable members can easily follow them. This would assist honourable members and others who are interested in and read the reports. 
 I am glad to have the Minister's assurance. He expresses his agreement, if I may use the word of the week. The Liberal Party believes that the proposed boundaries do not entirely follow the geographical features as much as they should. 1 say this knowing that it is often hard to determine fair distributions which follow geographical features. However, with those reservations we have come to the stage where we, like the Government, accept the proposals entirely. The Commissioners have considered all objections and the time for objections is past. The report was tabled only a few days ago. It was very difficult to obtain a copy of it. I received my copy only this morning. The report was tabled and it could have been viewed in the office of the  Clerk  or in the Bills and Papers Office. I believe a copy was also in the Parliamentary Library. So there seemed to be some hesitation by the Government about proceeding with these proposals. Perhaps if there had not been the possibility of an imminent election the Government may not have introduced and agreed to the proposals with the 3 qualifications made by the Minister today. 
If honourable members read the fourth paragraph of the Minister's statement they may detect some hesitation by the Government as to whether it would support these proposals without qualification. The Minister went to some length to outline the qualifications. There have been rumours around the House as to what the Government might do about these proposals. I have no idea where the rumours started. Perhaps the Minister himself was in 2 minds. I do not know, but in any case we have reached the stage today where the Government is accepting the proposals and the Opposition is agreeing to them. One gets the impression that some haste was involved in all this matter, but the proposals are before the House and I suppose one can be thankful for that. 
I take up the Minister's point about the quota variations because this is a most contra.versial matter between the major parties at present. In his speech he referred to the 2 seats which are not within a 10 per cent variation of quota. I want to comment briefly on this matter because the Opposition has strong views on it. Although the Minister did not use the phrase which is bandied around on this question - one vote one value - it is an emotive phrase which certainly has been used in debates like this. But what does it really mean? The situation is that the present law - this is what the Commissioners have relied on - provides for a 20 per cent variation in the quota which is more or less than the average of enrolled electors per division. Last year the Government introduced a Bill to reduce that to 10 per cent on the argument that it provided for one vote one value. It was defeated. I think one can question that principle because, after all, if one has a 10 per cent variation rather than a 20 per cent variation that hardly gives a result closer to one vote one value. Now the Government has a proposal to put before the people on 18 May to have no variation whatever. The Minister has really given the game away in his statement because he was trying to explain away the quota differences. He was saying that if the next election were held in 1975, which is the full term of the Government, the electorates which are under quota would have caught up. Of course that is the whole point, namely, that population and enrolment changes are occurring between the Divisions so quickly that it is necessary to. have a variation so that some sort of stability can be reached and so that we are not having redistributions all the time, which are not an advantage. 
When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  speaks on this matter - of course it includes Western Australia - he often refers to the conclusions of the Constitutional Review Committee as contained in its 1959 report. He was a member of that Committee. It recommended that the variation should be 10 per cent, but the report also stated that the Chief Electoral Officer and all States advisers were of the view that it ought to be 20 per cent. They are the people who deal with the practical day to day administration in this field. The Committee went on to say that having heard that advice it still did not agree with it, but the Committee said it in a way that indicated that it understood the problem involved. Now the present Government says that it wants no variation whatever. 
That is a contradiction of the Government's Bill of last year and a contradiction of all the advice that was received by the Government from the Commonwealth and State electoral officers as it was presented to the Committee which brought down that 1959 report. Clearly the question of variation is important to people and to the proper administration of the electoral redistributions. Clearly the term 'one vote, one value' has no precise meaning, lt is jargon which is wheeled out to raise to the surface the proper ideals that people have for a more democratic system, to gain . support for Labor. 
The Minister for Services and Property said - it is irrelevant to the motion - that the proposal is not as bad as the State redistribution. The Western Australian State redistribution certainly does not have equal quotas, but that is a system that until quite recently was agreed to by all parties. When we say that there is a smaller quota in the country and smaller in the north west, let us not forget that for years the Australian Labor Party won seats in the country and in the north west. Indeed, for many years the north west electorates were pocket boroughs for the Labor Party. Why? Because the small mining outcrops in those remote regions had far more, enrolments than the number of pastoralists and others. That is the political situation. Now, for the first time that the Liberal Party has taken all the north west seats in the Upper House and the Lower House, it is called a 'gerrymander' and there is something wrong with the situation. That is sour grapes if ever one has heard it. I cannot speak for much longer because my time is running out, but I state that the Opposition accepts the renaming of the tenth seat after Dame Dorothy Tangney. We believe that she is entitled to recognition. We believe, by the way, that C. Y. O'Connor is entitled to recognition too. He was a very great man. Dame Dorothy Tangney was the first woman senator in Federal Parliament. We have respect for her. We know that she is a fine person. I hope that day comes when we are able to name a seat after  Sir Paul  Hasluck who, in my view, is the greatest Western Australian since Lord Forrest. We, and I in particular, think that Curtin should have his name on a Western Australian seat, not that he was a Western Australian by birth but because of his close association with that State. The remainder are place names. The Opposition agrees with the proposals. 
--In reply to the points made by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  let me say that there is no doubt or hesitation by the Opposition that it will certainly vote against these Bills and against the Appropriation Bills, as I am sure the Minister knows full well. I think we have to realise first and foremost that these Bills relating to the Australian Industry Development Corporation have been brought forward into this House under a harsh guillotine measure, I believe for 2 purposes. Firstly, they are to provide legal grounds for the Government to seek from the Governor-General a double dissolution. 
I am glad to have the agreement of my honourable friend on that point. In other words, it is not the principle of the issue in particular. The measures are to be rammed through this House so that the provision of the Constitution which states that if the Parliament twice refuses a Bill, but not within a period of 3 months, a double dissolution can be requested of the GovernorGeneral. But, of course, the Government is not relying just on rejection of one Bill. It has introduced several Bills into the House, including the health legislation, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 and the National Investment Fund Bill 1973, so that it will have ample grounds on which to campaign and presumably when it goes to the people it will argue that it has done its best to have that legislation passed. 
Let us not have all the cant that the Minister for Overseas Trade, who is sitting at the table, gave us about this matter. The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 is before the House at this moment so that the Opposition in the Senate will reject it again. This House will pass that legislation, because the Government has a majority here. But the Parliament will refuse it because the Senate will reject it. The rejection of that Bill will give the Prime Minister the opportunity to go to the Governor-General and to ask for a double dissolution. The Prime Minister will not be disappointed in that respect because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said many times in recent weeks that he is in favour of going with the Prime Minister, or if necessary to follow him in a taxi to Government House, and to give his support for a double dissolution. 
I will recall briefly the events that occurred last Thursday. The Opposition forced a showdown with the Government on the question of an election and a double dissolution. Anyone who was in this House last Thursday saw that when the Prime Minister entered the chamber he was shocked and angry about that showdown. Anyone who saw him on television last Thursday night knows that the Prime Minister does not want an election. Of course, he would have called an election if he wished to have one. But in answer to the question: What would you do if the Appropriation Bills were passed?' he said: "The election will not go on*. 
We are addressing ourselves to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, which is a most important Bill and is linked with the National Investment Fund Bill 1973. They are most important measures. The Opposition has strong views on both pieces of legislation. The views of the Opposition have been expressed, ! believe, in a very good speech made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who, I believe, and I hope before not too much time passes, will be the Treasurer of Australia. The speech to which I refer was made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on 16 October 1973. It was a fairly long speech and set out fully, and in great detail, the Opposition's objections to this legislation and what the Opposition will do when it becomes the Government. 
Let me make another point in reply to the Minister for Overseas Trade, who is sitting at the table. He spoke about the failure to pass the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973. Let us examine that matter. The truth of the matter is, of course, that nobody knows what those words mean. It is not fully settled constitutional practice. The Minister for Overseas Trade came into this House this evening and not once, but several times, said that this legislation has failed to pass. He does not know that it has failed to pass but he is asserting it. There are a lot of assertions in his speeches on this Bill and on other matters which have been before this House, about which he is not sure. As a matter of fact, there is some reason to believe that, when a Bill is refused passage twice, as were the Electoral bills, the right to call a double dissolution can expire. The Minister for Overseas Trade referred, as did the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to the tired argument about a mandate from the Australian people. The Minister did not use that word on this occasion. He came very close to it. I see that he is agreeing with me so far as I have gone. The point is that no constitutional authority will give support to such a doctrine as the mandate. In any case, what the Opposition is saying to the Government and, indeed, to the people of Australia is: 'We have seen so much of the new policies of this Government. Let us have an election; let us have another look at them'. 
The Senate has a role to play under the Constitution. It has tried to seek a role in recent years of having committees of examination. The Senate has tried to have a closer look at Bills, at Government questions and at public matters which have not been closely examined in Australia. One of those committees is the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control which is chaired by  Senator Cant,  a Labor  Senator from  Western Australia. That Committee is examining at this time the Australian Industry 
Development Corporation legislation. Indeed, I believe it proposes to recommend some amendments to that legislation. According to the newspapers - I think they can be regarded as reliable in this area - the Minister for Overseas Trade also has some amendments to make to the legislation which it is hoped will make it more palatable to the Opposition and to the opponents of the proposed legislation who are outside the House. 
What did the Government do? It prorogued Parliament at the end of last year, thereby stopping the proceedings of that Committee which was closely examining this legislation. The Government has held up and inhibited - indeed, has put a stop to - the working of that Committee in its examination of this legislation. Where is the sense in the Government taking that action, if it is really genuine, as it says it is - as the Minister for Overseas Trade has just said it is - in wishing to have legislation passed and in believing that the legislation has failed to pass. The important words used by the Minister are 'failed to pass'. That is a phrase which appears in the Constitution. The Constitution states that, if legislation is refused twice by the Parliament outside a 3 month period - that is, it is voted against or fails to pass - there are grounds for a double dissolution. Now, the Minister is saying so very glibly as I have pointed out that this legislation has failed to pass. There is no proof of that. What is more - and this is very important - a Senate Committee is inquiring into the matter and could well reach a constructive result which would be accepted by all sides of the House. But no, that is not good enough for the Government. The Government is now about to be forced into an election. The Government has to wheel this legislation up so that it can have legal grounds on which to approach the Governor-General and ask for a double dissolution. I do not really object to that in itself. What I do object to is the Minister complaining in this chamber that he is introducing this legislation as a great matter of principle, that the country is in urgent need of it, and so on. 
He went on to make a lot of other statements. The Minister is a man who has a considerable grasp of economics, I believe. It is amazing really, to hear the hotchpotch of economics and ideology that he came out with this evening. What we have seen, of course, in this area of investment - overseas investment and internal investment - is a tremendous slowing down of development in the recent past. The truth of the matter is that in all this expenditure which it is undertaking today the Government is only living off the wealth which has been accumulated in recent years and built up by better men. 
One of the questions which keeps recurring in respect of this legislation and similar legislation is: 'How do we, Australians, continue to own our own resources?' That is the question involved. It has a lot of emotional appeal. How real is it to devise methods by which foreign investment which enables the extraction from the ground, for instance, the resources which we have, is cut off or greatly diminished 
This legislation seeks to expand the powers of the Australian Industry Development Corporation so much that a very real danger exists that we will get not only nationalisation and socialisation of industries but also a tremendous draining off of all investment resources to Australia from other regions, a great and vast transfer from the private sector to the public sector. Those resources in the ground to which I referred are really not much use in the ground to anyone, except to one or 2 eco-nuts, as I think they are called, who would not agree with me. Some eco-nuts sit on the Government side but I am pleased to say that most Government supporters do not go so far as that. 
I want to discuss also the question of socialism and nationalisation. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Adelaide, said - I think I have his words correctly - that he was not reluctant to be known as a socialist. He went on to say that the AIDC is not socialist in its intent. Well, how much reliance can we place on that claim? I remember very clearly making a speech in this House on 22 August 1972 about some of the comments made by the present Minister for Overseas Trade, who was then a member of the Opposition. On that occasion, if I may make bold to quote myself briefly, I stated: 
What they .... that is, the Labor Party- propose is a clear Australian Labor Party socialism in the old style. The honourable member for Lalor never tires of making clear his extreme socialist views and his ideas of revolutionary democracy. It was he who insisted .... in December 1971 in incorporating in the Hansard record an- 
extract from the Labor Party's 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' on economic planning . . . 
It is enough that I quote the first paragraph. 
It states: 
The Opposition most strongly supports the 3 principles to which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred, namely, that the Governor-General's salary should be dealt with in a non-party way, that the salary arrangements for the Governor-General should clearly recognise the importance and place of this high office and that appointment to the position of GovernorGeneral should not be made to depend on personal wealth or the availability of other income. The Opposition recognises changes that have taken place in the situation. It supports the Bill in principle and in detail. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Third reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Whitiam)  read a third time. 
 Is the Prime Minister aware that former Labor Ministers in Western Australia have been criticising his Government's policies now that they are free to speak? Is he aware that the State  President  of the Labor Party and former Minister for Works,  Mr Jamieson,  said that a Federal report on freeways in Perth was nonsense; that the former Minister for the North-West,  Mr Bickerton,  criticised the damaging impact of shortsighted Federal policies on mining; that the former Minister for Mines,  Mr May,  said he could not understand a rejection of aid for the goldfields; and that the former Premier,  Mr Tonkin,  said that the Prime Minister should have stayed away from the Western 
Australian election campaign? Have these deliberate public comments caused him to have the policies or attitudes of his Government re-examined in any way? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to complaints that the implementation of policy to combat drug smuggling at international airports is causing passengers to be confined for an unduly long time in relatively small areas while they await clearance. 
If so, will the Minister endeavour to see that this system is overhauled, and that tired international passengers receive both courtesy and quick passage through necessary procedures. 
Has the Minister had any discussions with the Minister for Tourism and Recreation on this matter; if not, will he consult him. 
DrJ. F. Cairns - The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are very few complaints from passengers on this matter. Most passengers accept that the drug smuggling problem is serious and are prepared to accept some inconvenience to assist officers. 
Implementation of Customs control of passengers and baggage is by selective examination. It is acknowledged that some passengers are subjected to a measure of inconvenience and delay by this process, but officers do try to encourage an understanding by passengers of the necessity for examination. 
I have personally inspected international airports recently, and as a result have raised certain matters with the Minister for Transport with a view to improving airport facilities. 
The Customs Department continuously reviews its passenger processing procedures in order to reconcile the discharge of its responsibilities with the need to clear large numbers of passengers with a minimum of delay. 
There are regular discussions between officers of the Department of Customs and Excise and Tourism and Recreation on matters relating to the movement of passengers particularly by air. 
South Australia:BookBounty (Question No. 793) 
The Opposition accepts the need for this motion. It is necessary for sales tax Bills of this character to be debated together. It is necessary that they be introduced and debated together and passed without any warning being given to those who are involved commercially in the sales tax field because of the advantage which some could wrongfully gain from notice that something was to be done in that field. For that reason we support the measure as indeed it has been supported by Oppositions for all the years stretching back to 1963. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  Last Thursday at page 152 of Hansard the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is reported as having referred to me. He misrepresented me when he said: 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  gave notice that on general business Thursday No. 20 he would move as follows: 
That this House believes the Government has failed the nation in the management of the national economy by failing to control inflation causing loss of public confidence by failing to exhibit concern for the future and causing hardship to many by raising the spectre of widespread unemployment and by denying Australians an equitable share in national economic growth by failing to reform the taxation system. 
The Leader of the House went on to protest about that notice of motion and actually said that as this motion had been put in as No. 20 it would not be debated until after the next election. He implied - indeed, he said - that I had put that motion in with such a low priority that it came in only at No. 20. I think you will agree,  Mr Speaker,  that it is a worthwhile motion. I put the motion in as soon as I possibly could in order to have it debated in this House as soon as possible. There is no question of my giving it No. 20 priority; that is the order of business made under the Standing Orders. Indeed, the Leader of the House, if he wishes, is in the position of providing time to enable that valuable motion to be debated earlier. If he wishes me to debate it earlier, if he provides time for the necessary machinery and will bring in the Government numbers to assist in suspending Standing Orders, I shall be ready to move the motion at half an hour's notice. 
I find myself to be largely in agreement with the points made by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who preceded me in this debate. I support the motion. I believe that an examination of the committee system will be worth while, as the Leader of the House has pointed out. Furthermore, I believe that an examination of the effectiveness of committees is something in relation to which all members of the Parliament can claim some expertise because not one of us would have become a member of Parliament without having attended many hundreds or perhaps thousands of committee meetings - and they are still going on. I think that members, as a class, are able to judge the usefulness or otherwise of committees as well as or better than anyone in the community. 
I suspect that one of the reasons why this motion has been brought on so early in the session is to meet the wishes of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  - we have not heard very much from the Minister for the Capital Territory lately: so the name of his portfolio escaped my mind momentarily - who has some views on this subject and who has put them rather forcefully in the past. I presume that as a Minister he is still putting them forcefully. I think that this motion takes up the points that he wished to put forward in a proposition that he had in mind, although this motion calls for an inquiry and nothing specific. 
The Leader of the House mentioned that some 40 committees have been created or are about to be created. That points up just what a plethora of committees we have indulged in. In the last few years they have become fashionable in this building. With due respect to the members of the other place, I say that in the last few years the Senate has got itself into a situation in which it has suffered indigestion from the number of committees that have been established. Some of the committees established by the Senate and the House of Representatives have been useful but others have not. 
That leads me to the major point I want to make; which is, that we must be careful to ensure that we do not answer every complaint with the formation of a new committee of inquiry. We all know the pressure that is applied from outside of the Parliament, let alone from within it, by electors who feel concerned about some matter and who say: 'Someone ought to look into this matter. I do not propose to put time into looking into it, but someone else ought to have a look into it'. Pressure builds up. Committees are established. Rooms are occupied. A highly paid staff is employed. The members of that staff have to come from somewhere. In fact, positions are created that are in effect partly in competition with the Public Service. After all, there are limited resources for staffing, and if a committee is not achieving any useful purpose or is not achieving very much of a purpose it is a waste of such resources. 
I suggest too that we ought not to talk about copying the United States system too closely. Let us, as members of a parliamentary institution whose origins we understand and as people who have a knowledge of the way in which the institution has borrowed from the Westminster system, recognise that our system of government is not the same as the American system of government; that it is an entirely different system of government. If we are to have a committee system it must be a committee system that is different from that employed by the United States Congress. I do not wish to criticise the United States system. This is not the occasion on which to do so, even if I wanted to. But the point here is that it is a different system. Let us understand that it is different. I am sure that the proposed committee will receive plenty of evidence about the differences and will appreciate that our objectives are not in the same direction as the objectives of the United States system. 
I make the point also that I believe that there is a growing belief by people of experience in the Senate and in this chamber that joint parliamentary committees have some disadvantages. We have a number of joint parliamentary committees. The fact that a committee is a joint parliamentary committee does not necessarily mean that it will operate more efficiently and that it will prevent overlapping and duplication. I hope that the propose.l committte will examine this point: There is much to be said for separate memberships of committees as between the chambers of this Parliament and there is something to be said against the establishment of joint parliamentary committees. 
During the last almost 2 years I have served on the Joint Committee on Prices. I understand that that Committee is about to be reformed. I make the observation that that Committee was set up, in part anyway, in response to a public demand. Since its establishment the Prices Justification Tribunal has been set up. It, of course, has a large staff and it has much expertise available to it. I think that the useful existence of the Prices Committee could be questioned. I put it to the House that none of its recommendations has been followed by the Government. It cannot be shown that the Committee has been of value to anybody, except perhaps the  Chairman  who has received a good deal of publicity out of it. I am talking now about what has actually been achieved. I say to the House - I warn the House, if you like - that when the names are announced of those members of the Parliament who are to serve on that Committee in the future, if it is formed, it will see that not very many of the names of the members who served on it during the last Parliament are continuing. Whatever they say about the usefulness of the Committee, they will be voting with their feet. 
I come back to my point that certainly we should have a look at the Committee system. We have too many committees. Such an examination will lead us to a consideration of what are the best avenues in which to spend our time. Of course, that necessarily will lead to occasions on which the Government or the House will say that we cannot have a committee inquire into such and such an area; that there may be some value in having such a committee but the time would be better spent in another direction. I support the motion. I believe it will help to rationalise the Committee system and, as the Leader of the House said, it will endeavour to integrate the Committee system into the procedures of the House. I think that is a very commendable objective. 
It is a pity that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is not in the chamber on this occasion. 1 see that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart)  is here, but I remind the House that when this Bill was last before it the Treasurer was not here also. I believe it is justifiable to say that the place of any Minister is in the chamber when his Bill is being dealt with. I ask: 'What more important matter can any Minister have than to be present and hear the debate in the national Parliament by the elected representatives of the people?' 
This Bill has been before the House previously. As has been pointed out, the International Monetary Agreements Bill proposes that Australia should take up an additional entitlement to 341 shares in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The shares have an approximate value of S28m of which 10 per cent- say $2.8m- will be required to bring Australia's total equity in the Bank to $643m, of which $64m has been provided in cash. The Bank borrows on fairly favourable terms on that equity investment and it passes on those favourable terms to the recipients of its activities - namely, the poorer member countries - in order, as the Treasurer has said, to encourage the best rate of economic growth and development. I had the pleasure of visiting, with considerable interest, some officers of the Bank late last year. 
The Bank makes loans, broadly speaking, on commercial terms for economic projects related to capital works such as water, transport, power and primary production. More recently the Bank has engaged in a wider range of activities; more emphasis has been placed on social implications and necessarily less emphasis has been placed on economically viable projects. I do not think it is possible at this stage to express a view one way or the other on the efficacy of that policy change. One would have to look at each project on its merits to see how sound it is and how beneficial it is in its social objectives. I cannot say that the tendency itself, although much debated, worries me as much as it apparently worries some people who have expressed much concern. I believe that the Government is acting properly in making this increased equity contribution and that it is right in regarding the officers of the Bank as being the best people to decide what projects they should assist. 
As has been stated, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is easily the biggest development finance body in the world, and I and the Opposition as a whole, I think, certainly agree with the Bill and generally with the comments made by the Treasurer in his second reading speech. I was pleased to see his reference to the bipartisan support of the Bank that has existed over the years. I see nothing against the discussions with the Bank on payments to and from the Bank because of the 'maintenance of value' provisions resulting from the revaluation of the Australian dollar as against the United States dollar. 
The Treasurer referred to the reason why Australia has not taken up the shares previously. He said in his original second reading speech that it was because of budgetary restraint. But it ought to be mentioned in passing that at that time and previously a number of countries took the same view. Most countries did not take up their share entitlements immediately, but many have done so since, although some have not. I for one certainly believe that the time is now appropriate to take up that share entitlement. Perhaps it could have been done a little earlier. I noticed in the debate on this Bill last March that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  criticised the Opposition on this point in somewhat strong terms. I just make the additional comment that, although he talked about the great priority that should be given to this legislation, it ranked 237th in the Bills introduced by the Government in the previous Parliament. That indicates something about its priority to them. 
I think, too, that in this whole area of aid - I referred to this in an earlier debate - that it is not only a question of what the donor countries should do, though their obligations are the greater. It is, after all, something of a 2-way process, and some countries have behaved in ways which have taken away to some extent the incentive of donor countries. I am thinking particularly of the effect on public opinion in the United States of America. 1 think that what has been done in this Bill is correct. It is part of our attitude to increase foreign aid by one means or another. I believe that the foreign aid to be given by Australia, in whatever sphere it may be, ought to be increased. The Government Party used to be very fond of talking about a mandate that it had received. Anybody who knows anything about constitutional practice and precedent - the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is a Queen's Counsel, after all - knows that mandates are not a part of our electoral or democratic system. But, if ever a Government put forward strongly the view that it would increase foreign aid and drew attention to the needs of other countries and the capacity of Australia to increase foreign aid, it was this Government when it was first elected in December 1972. I point out to the House - I hope that the many supporters of the Government who are genuinely interested in the subject will confirm this by looking it up - that the expenditure on foreign aid since December 1972 has not been very impressive in comparative terms and has not been at all impressive in absolute terms. There has been a great deal of talk about what will be done, but honourable members should look at the figures of the payments and the schemes which have actually been supported. 
I conclude by making a brief comment on the point made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  on floating the Australian dollar. I agree with what he said and I believe that the reasons for it he gave are valid. On balance, that is the proper course for Australia lo take, at the present time. We ought to remind ourselves that floating, whether 'dirty' or 'clean' floating, would not necessarily, de facto, result in devaluation, which seems to be the underlying assumption made by most commentators, in the newspapers at any rate. Why intervention by the central bank should be regarded as 'dirty floating' and why this pejorative adjective is tagged on to it is a matter for people interested in the origins of phrases to examine. But there is certainly nothing wrong with the Reserve Bank of Australia intervening in such cases. Why should we make it easy for speculators and those dealing in short term money to find a profitable haven here? 
What we now have it 100 per cent intervention. Let us realise that. We have a fixed rate, and that is 100 per cent intervention. I believe that we ought to move to a situation where we have a floating dollar. Perhaps as an intermediate step we could do as the New Zealanders have done and link our currency with several currencies, and not just the United States dollar, and fix a rate each day. If we did that, we could go from there, to building up a market and having a floating dollar and, of course, intervention whenever those who are skilled in market operations believe that it will give us some overall stability. I support that view, which is certainly of importance and related to foreign aid. I support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 - Mr 
 Speaker, I think that the most notable incident or lack of incident that has occurred in this adjournment debate tonight is the absence of any attempt by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  to come into this House and explain himself. A notice of motion concerning a very serious matter has been given. Here was an opportunity for the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to speak, but his place in this House is vacant; he is not in the chamber. Obviously he cannot answer the charges which he himself raised in an attempt to damage others in this place. 
A notice of motion becomes effective only when it appears- on the Notice Paper. 
The honourable member for Maranoa was in order and the honourable member for Curtin is in order. 
The fact of the matter is, as you would know,  Mr Speaker,  from looking at the piece of paper in front of you, that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had his name on the list as a  speaker  and it has been scratched out, presumably by himself. I think that gives the full answer to the point that has just been raised. This evening I rose to speak on another matter, although if the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had been here and had been willing to speak I certainly would have yielded my place because that is the urgent matter of the moment. 
Tonight I rise to speak about the Joint Committee on Prices which has been set up by this House. Today when that Committee was reconstituted - it was first constituted in the last Parliament - the motion to set it up was brought in with a number of motions to set up other committees. As you would know,  Mr Speaker,  the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and others wished that the business should proceed quickly, so I did not intervene in the debate at that time. But as a member of that Committee in the last Parliament and as one who is not continuing on the Committee, I want to make a few remarks about it before the opportunity to do so passes. 
I did not stand, if the honourable member is interested. That Committee was set up by this Parliament after the Government announced that it would be set up in order, it was said, to help consumers, to see that price rises were examined - in other words to represent the position of consumers by trying to keep prices low. 
What has been the result of its activity over a year or so? There is no evidence whatsoever that any Minister has taken any notice of the findings or indeed of the evidence that has been produced at those committee meetings. In fact a number of reports were issued on a number of subjects. On 2 occasions meat prices - particularly beef prices - were examined. Honourable members opposite expressed a great deal of concern about that subject at that time. The Labor members of the Committee brought forth a number of recommendations. All of them were ignored by the Government. The recommendation which the Government accepted was the recommendation contained in a minority report written by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and myself. It was adopted by the Government although the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  said what his policy was before the Committee had actually decided what its recommendations would be. So much for his concern or even interest in the Committee's proceedings. 
Other Ministers, in respect of items which were examined by the Committee, have given no indication of their interest or indeed that they learned anything. When I put questions on the notice paper in the last Parliament asking whether they had learned anything from it, the questions remained unanswered at the end of that Parliament. The Committee has indulged in a good deal of advertising. Some thousands of dollars have been spent on advertising, on the employment of staff and so on. 1 take the opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the staff who, I think, did their best under impossible conditions. With some respect to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who I see is in the chamber, the result has really only been a platform for publicity by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Adelaide. He has made Press releases, he has been interviewed on television and so on. But he cannot tell me one other notable thing that has come out of the Committee, yet the Government comes into this Parliament and reconstitutes it. 
The Government should be dinkum about this and Government members on the Committee should be dinkum about it. Either the Committee will be of some value or it will not. If it is going to be of some value then some notice should be taken of its proceedings. At least the Government should listen to the evidence because after all at some expense we call witnesses and examine them. At any rate the Government should have a policy formation. After all this is supposed to be conducted in the open air these days. Open government has become almost a laugh against the Government. At least it could take some interest in what the Committee or some of its members are saying and show that the Government regards it as important. 
What has become apparent - this was said by members of the Opposition when this Committee was being formed - is that it was purely a stunt to make the public believe that something serious was being done. It was a stunt to make the public think that somehow or other members of Parliament would meet, examine items, look into the cost structure and somehow bring pressure to bear on prices and keep them down. Of course, the Government had another policy and that was to set up the Prices Justification Tribunal or, as others have called it, the Price Rises Justification Tribunal, which has now expanded into a large establishment. It has an expert staff and people engaged full time. In other words, it has a capacity for far more work and analysis than this Committee could ever hope for. If there were a body that could do anything constructive 
I suggest that the honourable member read the record of the debate more carefully.  His  memory is failing him. If the Government intended to do anything constructive then that is the body - that socalled tribunal - to carry it out. I think it is right to bring to the notice of members and to place on record the experience of this Committee. I think that some members, perhaps all members at times, have endeavoured to get something practical and useful out of the Committee. But I do not believe that they have been really successful. Advertisements were placed in all daily newspapers. They were widespread advertisements which were placed at considerable cost inviting members of the public to write in and make complaints. Naturally, hundreds, perhaps thousands of letters were received. Naturally, they would be in these conditions of rampant inflation in this country. It was then the Committee's task to try to sort out from the many avenues put forward what avenues they would examine. 
As every member of the Committee knows, it would take literally 20 to 30 years at the rate of progress we were making to go through all the avenues which presented themselves. I come to my point that what was obvious at the beginning and throughout the hearings of the Committee was that there was a pretence to people that something would be done. The hearings were conducted at not inconsiderable cost. The new Committee does not contain very many members who previously served on it. I think that is an indication of the Government's attitude as a result of the experience gained. I believe that the grandstanding that has gone on has not been in the interests of the country. Now that the Committee has been reformed I believe that some of its members will try to work for the benefit of the people. An effort must be made to examine matters on a narrower basis so that they can be looked into in more detail in order that something of real value and benefit may follow. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the  Chairman  of the Committee, is to follow me in the debate. I shall be most interested to hear what he has to say. 
I do not know whether the sort of speech that we have just heard from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  passes as logic or oratory at branch meetings of the Australian Labor Party, but I can assure him that it will not cut any ice here. The honourable member's speech Was a hotch-potch of contradictions and nonsense, as I will spend a moment or two pointing out.  His  speeches are always full of abuse. Indeed, it would be clear to anyone watching him speak that he is so emotionally involved in the subject of his legislation that he really cannot separate the factual and objective aspects of it. Interlaced throughout all of his speeches on this subject is a hymn of hate against the State Premiers, particularly those of Western Australia and Queensland, that is filled with intemperate references. I will not go into them any further as I do nol want to give emphasis to them, but I will point out to the honourable member that it hardly helps his case to talk in that way. 
Another notable aspect of the honourable member's behaviour is, as is well known in this place, that he is a protege of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The honourable member helps the Minister a great deal in this House and in the Labor Party. Naturally the Minister is the only person whom the honourable member singles out for any sort of praise - and what gushing praise it is. The Minister receives all the thanks for everything that the honourable member regards as being progressive in the mining industry in this country. 
According to the honourable member, it is the Minister who saved all of the iron ore companies in Western Australia. According to him, the vast projects in which so much private money has been invested would not have survived but for the actions of the Minister. What a laugh! The Minister did not have one hand in the setting up of those industries. He did not do one thing to help them. As a matter of fact, no one criticised them more than he did years ago when he sat- on the Opposition benches. He criticised all the projects that were set up in the 1960s. Naturally, as a member of a government which has brought about a currency devaluation that has had a damaging effect on all the export industries of this country the Minister had to try to get better prices from the importers of our iron ore and other minerals. I noticed that the honourable member for Blaxland is walking towards the door of the chamber. He knows that all of the things I have said are true and that he has misrepresented the position. 
The honourable member brought up the old chestnut about how the mining companies should not have tied their contract prices to the United States dollar. What was the alternative? I challenge honourable members opposite to find for me one banker who is engaged in raising international finance or one stockbroker who has engaged in raising money for mammoth projects which have turned around the balance of payments strength of this country who will say that he could have done other than tie the currency to the United States dollar rate. Most countries of the world are still following the same practice. The reason why they are still doing so is that the United States currency is still the strongest currency and the only currency to which one can look for major stability. Honourable members opposite may not like thai, but it remains a fact of international finance. 
I point out also that this legislation, which the Government says is so important, is being represented -at 5.30 p.m. on this Tuesday by one Minister - the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  - and that not one other member of the Labor Party is present in the House. It is supposed to be an important piece of legislation to the Australian Labor Party; yet its supporters have walked out on it. No doubt they have gone to an early dinner or to something of that kind and have left the Minister for Defence here as their sole representative. Well, all praise to him. Perhaps he has been rostered to be in attendance; I do not know. Be that as it may, no interest is being shown by the Labor Party in this matter. 
The honourable member for Blaxland also referred to some legal opinion on this matter. I might add that he also gave a lot of his own opinions, which are far less qualified. Of course, the fundamental point that has to be made about this Bill before one even starts to talk about its detail is that its introduction is completely premature. This legislation represents Part III of a Bill which was presented to this House by the Government last year and which was deleted by the Senate for the reasons set out in the debate on that Bill. I will not go into those reasons now. The remainder of the Bill that was passed asserted Commonwealth sovereignty over off-shore areas. That sovereignty has been questioned by several States. Proceedings have been initiated in the High Court in relation to that assertion. At one stage of his speech the honourable member for Blaxland tried to imply that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who is a former Prime Minister, would be, because he saw much in favour of this sort of legislation, behind this legislation today. I point out that what the right honourable gentleman has said for many years - I have heard him say it many times - is that the Commonwealth should assert that it has sovereignty and the High Court should be left to decide who has sovereignty. The High Court is in the midst of determining the sovereignty issue. It has not yet determined it. 
To bring in this legislation at this stage - I know that in the weeks to come the Government is going to say how urgent many Bills are and how it can allow only 10 minutes for them to be debated because there is insufficient time - is to make a mockery of the Parliament because it is not urgent. Although the sovereignty issue is not, strictly speaking, sub judice it certainly needs to be resolved before anybody will know what the true position is as to who has the rights and whether the Commonwealth law can be said to be legal. The Minister will not say what his attitude is to the petroleum aspect of off-shore exploration because this Bill specifically excludes that. There is no reference to that subject beyond, of course, the specific provision in the Bill that it should not be covered. 
I summarise my remarks by saying that the major Bill - 2 Bills are being debated concurrently - represents Part III of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 and that the provisions of Part III of that Bill were not passed when they came before the Senate last year; only Part I and Part II of that Bill were passed on that occasion. Part I and Part II of that enactment include a claim by the Commonwealth to sovereignty and to sovereign rights in respect of the territorial sea and internal waters excluding those that were subject to State sovereignty in 1900 and including not only internal waters but also the continental shelf. That enactment is at present the subject of a High Court challenge by several States which are seeking a declaration that it is unconstitutional. 
The Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974 provides a code for the exploration and mining of minerals in the area over which the Commonwealth claims sovereignty and in relation to which the honourable member for Blaxland says the High Court is going to give the Commonwealth sovereignty. Of course, it will be recalled that immediately he made that assertion I interjected and that he then retreated and said that the High Court will be deciding whether it is constitutional. The honourable member changed his ground somewhat. The fact of the matter is that the High Court will be determining the issue and, at this point, nobody, not even the High Court, knows what that determination will be. Because the Bill that we now have before us relies on the very existence of sovereignty the constitutional validity of which the present High Court challenge will determine, its introduction is premature. The determination by the High Court is basic to the whole matter. It is obvious that this legislation will be of no consequence until the legal doubt is removed. 
Let me mention one or two salient aspects of the legislation. Firstly, it applies only to minerals and, as I said, specifically excludes petroleum. So the legislation relating to petroleum is not affected. Let me comment on that point. The Minister refuses to say what his attitude is. The Opposition's shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who preceded me in the debate, rightly demanded that the Government put down a White Paper to explain its general policy, as an indication of policy to people who want to find minerals and petroleum, which can be of such value to this country, and which after all increase the standard of living of everyone in the country. If we leave them there undiscovered, if large scale projects are not launched in order to find them we will be all the poorer, and so will the world be poorer. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is always anxious to say that Australia has responsibility for the provision of resources to other countries and particularly to the less developed countries. I ask: What about this major aspect - one that is probably much more important than any amount of foreign aid which this country can direct, because the sum is so much larger? 
Secondly, the Bill will come into operation on the day on which it receives royal assent, as is covered by clause 2. So there is no delay in its provisions while its validity is tested. Obviously that will result in extreme uncertainty by any company or group seeking to explore in the off-shore area. Thirdly, the Minister may require information and documents relating to minerals in off-shore zones from anybody capable of providing them, including, of course, State governments. I think we are aware of the attack which the Government is making on the States in those areas in which the States have been exercising power. Are we to say that the States should have no powers? Certainly we will not say that they should have all power. 
What is necessary is some sort of balance. We have had a balance in this country since 1901. It has existed under the federal system. I for one am not going to say that that balance should always remain the same. I believe that from time to time it needs to be changed. But I certainly do not believe that every aspect of government is best controlled from Canberra. On the contrary, I believe that many matters are handled inefficiently from here, let alone unwisely. That is the experience of all large administration around the world. It is being discovered that much more local involvement is necessary for greater effectiveness. But this Government does not believe in that fact. We know that the Prime Minister does not want the States; he does not want a Senate; he wants to change the whole Constitution and he believes that he has the ability to decide best all the questions facing the country. That object comes out in this legislation because this information is to 'be taken from the States, if necessary by coercion and used for purposes which will diminish the powers that the State governments can exercise. One can give many examples of that. 
It will be an offence to explore for minerals or to carry on operations for the recovery of minerals in the off-shore zone except in accordance with the provisions laid down in this Bill, and they are indeed stringent. Apparently the Government is moving towards a stage of wishing to take unto its own authority all exploration - indeed we know that that has started in the fields of oil and gas exploration and minerals as well. The transitional provision in Division 8 provides for the continued operation of exploration under State laws until a decision has been given on the application for a licence under the Commonwealth Bill. The State laws, so far as they relate to exploration for or operations for the recovery of minerals in any part of the off-shore area, are specifically excluded. 
We are debating an associated Bill providing for a royalty to the Commonwealth on minerals taken as allowed by the major Bill - the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill. If enacted, these Bills will conflict with the State Acts. Many of the State Acts - in my own State of Western Australia it is known as the Mining Act 1904-73  -  apply below the low water mark. I am not aware of any extensive exploration taking place but obviously, as technology improves, there will be a great deal of exploration. So the validity of this legislation depends on the result of the present challenge to the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973. Meanwhile anybody who wishes to explore will not know what to do. There will be complete uncertainty, and uncertainty involving huge sums of money means no exploration at all. Since this Government was elected in December 1972 we have seen a tremendous reduction in the exploration for oil, gas and minerals. It is of no use talking about the principles involved if the result is that one finds nothing. That helps nobody. This is just another Bill which will increase the uncertainty. That position is exacerbated by the Government's refusal to state its general policy. 
In conclusion let me mention that  Senator Greenwood,  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate and a former distinguished Attorney-General, made a speech on the legislation of last year to which I referred. In that speech he set out in some detail all the reasons why the Opposition is opposed to that legislation and, in particular, to the over-wide discretion which it contains. I pre dict that we will see from this Government, the longer it stays here, more and more attempts to take unto itself more and more power. I think that power, as well as economic development, is what these Bills are all about. I say: 'Thank God for the Senate and what it did last year, and thank God for the efforts of the State governments in most of the attempts they have made to inhibit this legislation.' The essence of democracy is not unitary rule by Whitlam but divided power. The essence of democracy is divided power - divided between the chambers, divided between the Commonwealth and the States. I say: 'Let us by all means preserve that because there is no single person, despite what the Prime Minister might think, who embodies all wisdom necessary to make the great decisions that are necessary in this country'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
It was not my intention to rise at this early hour in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, but I take the opportunity this evening to remark that the system which has operated in this House of closing off an adjournment debate at 11 o'clock is one which I think many honourable members have found to be workable. It will be recalled that when the system was proposed by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  some reservations were expressed by certain honourable members, particularly on this side of the House, about the method of conducting the adjournment debate. The suggestion which appealed to me most and which I take this opportunity to present to the House is that in cutting off the debate strictly at 11 o'clock come what may - that is the position at present, pursuant to a resolution of the House - there is a danger that the last honourable member to speak in the debate will attack other honourable members or perhaps persons outside this House in a somewhat strong manner and not leave them any opportunity to reply. That is something which has worried many honourable members. 
I do not want to elaborate on that aspect, but I do want to place on record the fact that that sort of thing has happened on one or two occasions in the last 12 months. I hasten to say that I appreciate the fact that when honourable members put their names on the list which is kept on the table in front of the occupant of the chair they sometimes find that they are not the first or second person to put their names on the list and as there are normally only 3 speeches of 10 minutes duration each in an adjournment debate it does not provide an opportunity for anyone else to reply to such remarks. But I do think that anyone who wishes to launch a strong attack, particularly a rather personal one, ought to remember that the person on whom the attack is launched is entitled to make some sort of rebuttal. I do not think it is right that the matter should be allowed to stand over until the next day, if the attack is made on a Tuesday or Wednesday night, or the following Tuesday or Tuesday week if the attack is made on a Thursday night. I make that point because we have had one or two experiences of it in the recent past. I will not mention the name of any particular honourable member in relation to this subject. I conclude by saying that honourable members ought to remember that the adjournment debate closes at 11 p.m. and each ought to make arrangements with the occupant of the chair who normally is you,  Mr Speaker,  to see that he is not the last  speaker  and that he has left some time for someone to reply. 
This Bill, as has been mentioned by honourable members, is basically of 2 parts. Part V, which relates to consumer protection, is the Part to which the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  who has just resumed his seat, addressed himself. I wish to point out - I will talk about other parts as well - .that the Opposition is by no means uninterested in the protection of consumers, but that it believes that these provisions are not practical and that they do not meet the situation, as the Minister has asserted. The Opposition believes that it is clear that the position needs much more examination yet in order to find the right formula. The Minister made the point that this is the first time that any steps have been taken in this House for the introduction of consumer protection provisions. That is quite true. But because it is the first time does not necessarily mean that this is the best possible proposal. It certainly does not necessarily mean that these provisions will be satisfactory. 
At first the Opposition was quite attracted to the notion of these provisions, but the more it looked at them the more it came to the conclusion that they were impractical, that they would not work, that the States had some laws which were, at any rate in part, effective and that it would want to go into the matter much further. It is no real argument to say that there are 6 sets of law operating in a particular field of government. That argument taken to its logical conclusion, means that we should not have State governments at all. Although that is probably the view of some of the supporters of the Government I do not think that it is the view of ail supporters of the Government. Let us be clear. If we are going to criticise the States for having different laws, although I do not believe that they are fundamentally different in this area, the logic of that argument will take us quite a long way. 
For my part, I think that there is perhaps a need for this Parliament to pass laws in relation to consumers. From the discussions I have had in respect of this proposal however, I do not believe that these provisions are adequate or practical. The jibe is so often offered in this House that in many fields nothing was done for 23 years under the administration of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Was the honourable member commenting about consumerism 23 years ago? Of course not. Honourable members hardly would be thinking about it then. The issue has. become more and more alive as time has passed. Nobody needs to apologise for not having thought of everything 23 years ago. 
As a person who has been a member of this Parliament for only 5 years I will not take any responsibility for what happened in the years prior to that. For that matter, to take the point a step further, if I were to come to a different conclusion about a subject on which I made a speech 3 years ago I would not see any inhibition in my coming into this House and contradicting what I said earlier - I hope with some acknowledgement of what I had said earlier - and pursuing a new policy. I do not think that it really gets us very far to say in a debate that the LiberalCountry Party Government had 23 years in which to do X, Y and Z. Of course situations change. The thinking today certainly is that there is a need for laws to protect consumers, but we have to ensure that they will achieve beneficial results and that they are fair. I know that the Minister has received some praise from consumer organisations about his role as a proponent on their behalf. All praise for that. But I remind the House that practical results of that intervention have yet to be seen. 
I believe that the Restrictive Trade Practices Act, which was passed 2 years ago, is a good piece of legislation. I believe that it would have been a better piece of legislation if the amendments which were proposed by  Senator Greenwood  and which would have toughened it up had been passed and had been put into effect. Part of the parcel of proposals he put forward concerned the setting up of a separate monopolies commission. I think that his proposals were better than these for the reason that their implementation would have enabled a more profound view to be taken of the situation because it would have enabled an investigation of all the facts. 
There would have been much more certainty of a practical application being inserted into the world of trade than there will be if this proposal becomes law. This Bill goes straight to controls and to coercion. I think it has come from people who have a moderate knowledge of what is happening in the market place. In that respect I suggest that it is typical of the approach by the Labor Party. I say that because we have seen in the past Labor Governments, as well as in the present Government, a reaction to every situation in terms of: How can we control it? How can we hold it down? How can we bring everyone below to a common denominator? How can we coerce as much as possible?' 
In response to the interjection by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry I say that the longer the Labor Government remains in office the more we are going to see coercion and an attempt to set up a unitary system of government in Australia. 
I think that comment by the Minister for Services and Property is deserving of incorporation in Hansard. The adoption of  Senator Greenwood's  proposals would have created more certainty. The primary point one has to make about this Bill is the tremendous uncertainty that is involved in it. As recently as yesterday  Senator Murphy  tried to imply, as reported at page 338 of the Senate Hansard, that if this Bill were passed it would be the end in the main of the problem of inflation. How ridiculous can one get? I know that he is a lawyer and that possibly he has not been outside of the study of law for many years, but the control of inflation, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for 
Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  have made clear in the last few days in this House, goes a great deal beyond trade practices. Important though it may be, in its influence it certainly is only a long term measure. It is a very long term measure. I remind the House that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - the Government is very fond of quoting OECD documents when it thinks it valuable - has made it very clear that legislation regarding trade practices has an effect on inflation only in the long term. 
That brings us to the position in which we have before us legislation about which there is tremendous doubt about every main operative provision. There will become certainty only when the courts have had years of chewing on it. It means that every phrase used and every application to a practice in trade has to be determined by the courts. It is only the courts that can do it, and the only way that can be done is for people to enter into litigation to find out exactly what the law means,  how far they can go, what is illegal and what is not. That is where this legislation really is a farce as an influence on inflation because obviously if it takes that length of time to help consumers and business people to determine what are their rights, it will take all that time before it will have any effect on prices, insofar as that is an objective, and have an effect on inflation. Further, the courts cannot hope to deal with all the economic influences involved. Commerce and trade are very complex. They are even more complex than this House or any one honourable member can comprehend at the one time. So I question the value of this legislation. I question whether those who have been responsible for drafting the Bill have had much experience in that area. I know they have had experience in the law of that area but experience in trade and business is another matter. . 
Let me point to one or two other relative details. The primary object , of the Bill is to increase competition. It wants to increase competition whether that is a good thing or a bad thing. I think that this illustrates that dogma, if taken too far, always gets one into trouble. Competition is not always a good thing for the public. It is not always in the public interest. The Government itself is the greatest monopolist. Obviously the Government is at odds with itself. As the Minister for Manufacturing Industry would know, the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the motor vehicle industry has recommended, particularly in the components section, that there be some rationalisation in the industry. Rationalisation means merger, closing down - in other words, lessening of competition. It is in direct conflict with the object of this Bill as it has been stated. 
The Minister should read the speeches that have been made in favour of this Bill and he will see that that is the case. I think that the Government can try, in another sense, to rationalise the situation as much as possible but it really is not entirely clear about which way it wants to go. I for one think that there are segments of this economy in which rationalisation is necessary. I happen to believe that one of them, as the Minister might be interested to know, is the aircraft industry, and rationalisation in that industry seems to be taking a long time to reach fruition. Rationalisation is sometimes necessary. Competition is not always a good thing. I hope that nobody will accuse the Opposition, particularly members of the Liberal Party, of arguing that competition always comes first. Obviously we believe that it is the driving force in much of the productivity in the country and that in most cases it ought to be allowed to have as free a rein as possible. I think it will be a long time before we have much competition in the steel industry, for instance, in this country because, after all, our economy is not so very big as to make that desirable. So there are 2 arms of government that are contradicting one another. How the matter can be reconciled is something which would not only be of interest to the Opposition but would be of help to the country. 
I come now to one or two points relating to the Bill in particular. I support the amendments as they have been outlined and as they will later be presented in more detail by the Opposition spokesman. It is clear that some of the enforcement provisions are very strong. The standard of proof required is much too harsh. One sees that particularly in clause 76 in which the Opposition proposes to delete the words 'if the Court so orders, liable to pay' and replace them with the words 'upon proof thereof beyond reasonable doubt liable, if the Court so orders, to pay'. I know that the 
Minister will have a close look at that amendment and indeed at all the others that have been presented. But my point here, linked with what I was saying earlier, is that throughout this legislation is a pretty blind attempt to coerce, and in some cases for coercion's own sake. 
I think that one of the most important provisions is contained in clause 49. The Opposition proposes some amendments to that clause to give it some more certainty. Yet there is a basic contradiction in this clause because it is dealing with price discrimination. It is clearly at some variance with the provisions and the objects of the Bill - that is the encouragement of competition. The opinion that that provision conflicts with the encouragement of competition has been expressed by a number of learned people - by the report of the Attorney-General's National Committee which studied the anti-trust laws in the United States of America in 1955, by the Neal report more recently in 1969 and by C. D. Edwards, a noted authority on price discrimination laws. Yet the Government has sought to insert this clause with all its accompanying vagueness. 
I know that there are people in the community who want to be protected in this way but I know equally that it is inconsistent with that overall objective. I hope that the Government in replying in this debate will make some attempt to reconcile that matter so that the House will know what is the general policy and approach. It must be recognised that industry is entitled - after all, people in industry are citizens too- to have as much knowledge as it can of the Government's intention and to have introduced as much certainty as possible into this area where there is at present so little. 
Another area is that of clearances and authorisations. Why those provisions were never made applicable to the monopolisation provision and the price discrimination provision in clauses 46 and 49 I cannot understand. Surely it is a question of fairness. Surely the Government would not wish to prevent a company or an individual from having his situation examined by an objective body. Surely an objective review is reasonable. As I was saying earlier, this goes to the heart of Labor's attitude to so many things. Its attitude must be to over-kill and over-control. The Government takes the position that everyone engaged in that practice is doing something which is wrong, and therefore it must be illegal. 
Surely in the complexity of human life there must be some cases in which it is not against the public interest. Surely they can be examined ad hoc. I see that the Minister is trying to mock this situation but I do not hear any rational reply coming from him. Those are the observations which I wanted tc make in this relatively short debate on the most complex set of provisions. I hope that the Government will provide time for the debate to be continued so that the 25 proposed amendments can be discussed. After all, that is one of the objectives of Parliament. I conclude by saying that in principle I support the Bill because it recognises - I think we all recognise this - the need for Government intervention in some way in this field. That, I might add, is entirely consistent with Liberal principles which recognise that in order to create or to preserve freedoms in the community it is often necessary to inhibit the activities of some within it. The first question is: How far do you go? The question is: Is there adequate justification in the public interest? One can only answer that on a case by case basis and in this case by looking within the general field of trade practices. But I think that the amendments that the Opposition has put forward - proposed by an eminent committee, I might add - are constructive and give much more certainty to the Bill and on that basis would improve it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the International Court of Justice has rebuked him concerning a statement made in 1973 about theprobable result of the nuclear test case pending  in  the Court between Australia and France. 
If so,  was  the rebuke  publicly  or  privately  made. 
What were  the  exact terms of it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the International Court of Justice pass a resolution by 11 votes to 3 expressing its strong disapproval of the making, circulating or publishing of statements by him purporting to anticipate or forecast the manner in which the Judges of the Court would cast their votes, and reiterating its view that such statements are incompatible with the fundamental principle governing good administration of justice. 
Did the Court contact him or his staff to substantiate that he made a statement forecasting a decision of the Court. 
If so, what inquiries were made, how were they answered, and by whom. 
Is it a fact that the Court received an apology from him concerning this matter. 
If so, what were the terms of that apology or communication, and how was it made. 
Once again a very odd motion similar to a motion moved in this House in March last year has been moved in relation to this matter. Presumably this matter has been brought before us again because the Parliament was dissolved prior to the last election. I say that it is an odd motion because the fact remains that the Commonwealth has not yet obtained tenure of the land on which it proposes to erect this building. I have been advised that that is a very odd circumstance indeed. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is at the table, has not bothered to refer to that matter. At the moment he is busy chatting with someone else and is taking no interest in this matter, which is a matter of which he is in charge. As one of my colleagues has said, he probably knows nothing about it. Indeed, when my colleague the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Went worth)  raised a question in relation to the previous motion before the House the Minister showed himself to be completely ignorant of the matter to which that motion referred. 
However, to proceed with this matter, I wish to draw the attention of the House to the seriousness of the position concerning the proposed construction of this building in Forrest Place, Perth. It has been proposed that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works should conduct an inquiry into the construction of an 8-storey building across the northern section of Forrest Place, which is as near as Perth has to a city square. There are far more honourable members from Sydney in this House than there are from Perth. Would they seriously contemplate the construction of an 8-storey building across Martin Place in Sydney? 
Would that be regarded as being fantastic? That being so, surely this proposition must be regarded as being fantastic. But the point is the Commonwealth Government does not have the tenure of the land. The land is Crown land that is vested in the Western Australian Government. The Minister has given no indication of his having received the permission of the State Government in this respect. To my knowledge the State Government has made no announcement to the effect that it is prepared to co-operate in this scheme. So the motion that is before the Chair is surely a premature one. 
Another very serious matter is involved in this proposition. When electioneering in Forrest Place on 17 November 1972 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made a promise from the back of a truck that he would provide additional space in this area and thereby make a wider public area of it by having a building known as the Padbury Building, which is down the eastern side of the area, demolished. But he said nothing about the taking away of other land. No quid pro quo arrangement was announced by him. I am happy to say that his words were taken down. I will read them to honourable members. I repeat that the Prime Minister made his speech in Forr est Place on 17 November 1972. He said: 
The Australian Labor Party will create a central city plaza in Forrest Place. 
He went on to say: 
Any Commonwealth Government looking at expansion and the future of Perth would like to seea thoroughly adaquate and beautiful square in the centre of the city. 
Then he said: 
I believe that the Commonwealth could afford to forgo that contribution. 
Those words were clearly envisaged as being a promise to demolish the Padbury Building. The honourable member for Perth agrees. Now we have before us a proposal that involves the demolition of that building, certainly, but also the taking away of a good deal of land that is at present open space and roadway for the construction of an 8-storey building that will block off the northern vista, which is so dear to the hearts of many people in Perth. I instance the objection to this proposal by saying that the New Heart for Perth Society and other organisations in Perth are deeply disturbed about this proposal. In fact many people in Western Australia had believed that this proposal was not going to be proceeded with until a newspaper advertisement that drew attention to imminent meetings of the Public Works Committee rather dispelled that belief. 
Perhaps the result of this debate today will draw their attention to the fact that the Commonwealth is going on with this matter, that the matter is proceeding in an inexorable way, that apparently no objection is being listened to and that the Minister is prepared to continue with the proposal despite the fact that he does not have tenure of the land and, as I have said, has given no indication that he is going to get it. I really think that it is a disgraceful state of affairs that the Commonwealth should be proceeding with this proposal. I inform the Minister that I am going to do everything I can to raise public opinion against this proposal. I will offer all the resistance I can to it. I believe that it is a bad proposal. I believe that it will disadvantage the planning of Perth. I have risen in the debate on this motion to state that objection. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he discuss with the Presiding Officers of the Parliament a change in procedure to have them host receptions in Parliament House for official visitors to Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Would he elaborate on his attitude towards the Australian Constitutional Monarchy and the position of the Crown in it. 
Has his attention been drawn to the concern expressed by many persons and organisations referring to overt and covert attempts by his Government, and the Party which he represents, to diminish respect for and authority of the Crown. 
If so, what was the tenor of his reply. 
If no reply has been given, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government made efforts to enable the United Nations Security Council, of which Australia is presently an elected member, to meet and discuss physical conflict and loss of life on and near  the  Paracel Islands involving China and South Vietnam? If not, why not? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that during July 1973 the Deputy, and then Acting Prime Minister criticised the Ambassador of France in Australia for making statements direct to the Australian Press. 
Is is also a fact that the Attorney-General, when visiting France in 1973, spoke directly to the Press in Paris by Press conference and otherwise almost every day. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did Australia fail to vote with the United States of America, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Fiji in favour of a motion to defer for 12 months the question before the General Assembly of the United Nations in late 1973 as to whether Cambodia should be represented by diplomats of the Lon Nol Government or those of Prince Sihanouk; if so, why. 
As this vote, if carried, would almost certainly have led to the expulsion of the existing representative of a government with which the Australian Government has diplomatic relations, what is the reasoning behind his claim that this matter was only a procedural question. '(3) Would he elaborate on the policy involved which allows him to turn his back on the combined views of our long-standing friends and allies who made it perfectly clear that they regarded it as a most important question. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
What was his purpose in visiting Prince Sihanouk during his visit to Peking in 1973. 
Which Australians were present with him at the interview. 
In elaboration of Government policy to Cambodia, are his actions based on the premise that Prince Sihanouk is the political leader of Khmer Rouge and other military forces fighting the Lon Nol Government's forces. 
Is it a fact that the Communist countries call for the reinstatement of Prince Sihanouk as Head of State of Cambodia, although they have shown antagonism to hereditary and royal rulers elsewhere in the world, even when parliamentary endorsement has been given to such rulers; if so, what is the attitude of the Government to this ironic situation. 
Did the meeting in Peking take place at (a) the Australian Embassy, (b) Prince Sihanouk's residence or office or (c) another and neutral meeting place. 
At whose request did the meeting take place. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state at his press conference on 9 January 1973, when asked why other Ministers were making outbursts against United States policy, that there will be no further statements on foreign policy except by himself. '(2) Is it a fact that the subject of Australian recognition of the so-called People's Revolutionary Gov ernment of South Vietnam was discussed at a meeting between the Minister for Overseas Trade and representatives of the People's Revolutionary Government in Peking not long after, and that the Minister for Overseas Trade made statements about it. 
If the position is as stated, was the Minister for Overseas Trade authorised (a) by the Government or (b) by the Prime Minister to hold these discussions with .the People's Revolutionary Government and North Korean representatives. 

 -Mr Chairman, we are debating the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. This Bill provides an opportunity for us members of the Opposition to explain, albeit briefly, to a wider audience why we believe that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority would not be in the best interests of Australia. Many complex legal, economic and political matters are involved. My purpose, in a few minutes, is to try to distil the main ingredients and to examine them as plainly as possible. I leave the question of the constitutionality of the BUI to others. I think it is important to adopt that approach because of the attempt by the Government, particularly by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is sitting at the table, to conclude 3 things: Firstly, that the Government has some sort of a mandate for this proposed legislation, secondly, that the proposed Authority would be in real interests of the Australian people; and thirdly, that any opposition to the BUI is unfair or perhaps improper. 
The mandate doctrine does not exist in Australian politics. Electors cannot know of every item in the platform that is put forward by a party. They cannot be said to agree to every item in a party's program. As I have said in this Par.liament and will keep repeating for as long as that assertion about the Government having a mandate to do certain things is made: There is not one constitutional authority to which the Government can point- the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is a Queen's Counsel- who will maintain the mandate doctrine in our system of government. The only sort of mandate which the Government can claim is in relation to a referendum. The Government has put 6 referendums to the people and they have all failed. So that is one reason not to support this Bill. 
Secondly, is the Bill really in the interests of Australia as we have been told so often it is? I believe analysis shows, even if it should be that this BUI proves to be constitutional- that is a matter for the courts to decide, not for anyone to say what he thinks will happen- that it gives practically uncontrolled power to the proposed Authority and to the Minister and the Government and provides for practically no parliamentary oversight. Indeed, this proposed Authority really is not an independent authority at all because it must accept the instructions of the Government. If one sets up an authority one envisages something with some sort of autonomy, but in this case the Minister can tell the Authority what to do in almost aU circumstances. The minerals industry in Australia has been carried on by the private sector with conspicuous success and to the great benefit of aU Australians. It is neither necessary nor desirable to commit public moneys in such a high risk area. Is the taxpayer to be forced to do so against his will? The efficiency of an industry, masterminded by the present or any future Minister for Minerals and Energy is surely equally questionable. 
The Bill is unfair. The Bill enables the new Authority to compete on unequal terms with private enterprise. Where has the Government's great aim of competition gone for which it argues so fiercely in favour in relation to the trade practices legislation. The Authority will not only lay down the rules but it will administer them as well. It will be a highly privileged competitor. It will be exempt from State royalties and taxes. It Will have power to acquire exploration areas, even when these are held by others. It will have power to acquire an interest in any actual or proposed mining venture upon its own terms. It Will have access to all the data required to be made available to the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Department of Minerals and Energy. It will have unlimited powers in relation to the terms under which it can employ staff. It will be able to negotiate contracts abroad, secure in the knowledge that, with the Minister behind it, it will not be prevented from honouring them by the imposition of export controls: no private miner has this security. It will be able to bypass the normal channels of government which bear responsibility for Australia's continuing relationship with its trading partners and other nations of the world. 
If we are really in an age of resources diplomacy- I gather that the Prime Minister himself seems to have retreated considerably from his first assertions- then the control of Australia's external relationships should continue to be vested as previously in the professional officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs and not in the Authority. 
Risk is the essence of the mining industry. This Authority will bear no risk whatever. The funds of the taxpayer are a bottomless pit to those who see only the attractions of the theories of government ownership, which have been steadily discredited since 50 years past. 
The Bill ignores State and individual rights. The Authority will be able to disregard completely State mining legislation and the existing rights acquired under it by private citizens. It will have power against the wishes of the occupier to explore, occupy and mine anywhere in Australia, including areas already held under lease and worked by State authorities, private companies or individuals. It will have power to interfere with exploration or mining activities already being lawfully carried out to the extent necessary for the reasonable exercise of the rights and performance of the duties of the Authority. It will be up to the unfortunate individual interfered with to show that the extent of interference was unreasonable. He is therefore guilty until he proves himself to be innocent. 
This Bill further asserts powers that conflict with the rights and the laws of the States. It asserts powers to take over mineral projects and unrestrained discrimination in its favour against private mines found and developed by high risk private capital. Exploration for minerals is a high risk, high cost, highly skilful occupation. This authority makes the taxpayers compulsory participants. The risk, cost and skill together must warn anyone familiar with the impetuousness of this Government, its lack of efficiency, its concentration on tomorrow's headlines rather than on careful planning and hard work, that it will not work in practice. This Authority will fail, and it will spend huge sums in the process. 
Like the Arts Council of Australia- I agree. Australia on its own does not have enough funds and skills and the Government does not have enough administrative ability to find and then develop the mineral bodies, including oil and gas needed for the 1980s, as we now live on the discoveries and developments of the 1960s. All the emotional appeals to nationalism and Australian ownership will not prevent the failure of the Authority. It will not find one new deposit. It will not develop those found by others efficiently or economically. It will only take over and make worse. 
Since 1972 the drop in exploration in this country has been dramatic and mining is far less economic and so has discouraged growth. That is the practical result in spite of the fine speeches. The Minister for Minerals and Energy in his speeches has in fact admitted this; but he attempts to justify it by saying things will improve. Rubbish. It is another triumph of hope over experience by that Minister. He speaks of co-operation with companies. But everyone knows that his methods and his personality make that impossible. It can be seen from his speeches over many years- and I remember well when he sat on the Opposition benches- that he hates all sections of the private sector. He is a dyed in the wool socialist and an implacable nationalisation seeker. In any case, let everyone be clear that ownership by the people and control by the people is very often propaganda for control by a government and by its Ministers. 
We have heard from the Minister a stream of abuse of mining companies, Australian companies, large ones, small ones, overseas companies. Multi-nationals- that is the great evil of which we hear. We heard the previous speaker misrepresenting the position about multinationals. This Government today reduced the deposit requirement for imported capital to 5 per cent. The previous speaker believed his own party's propaganda- a dangerous thing to do. He made a speech which might have sounded well when the deposit was 33 per cent; but he is a little bit behind the times. 
Let us have a look at the results. We have always known that we have had huge mineral deposits in Australia. Broken Hill of course was an early one; then came others, and then Mt Isa. Those were the days when we had a continuing deficit of our balance of payments on current account; but as a result of Government encouragement in the 1950s exploration and development took place with high risk capital which opened up many areas. 
Indeed, an explosion of interest took place and by the mid-1960s our balance of payments was permanently reversed by exports of iron ore, bauxite and coal and we cut down our imports of petroleum to 68 per cent at its high. We received gains of export income. We have seen built towns, roads, railways, ports, schools and community centres which belong to the State but which were paid for by those companies. A moment ago we heard some talk about freights in Queensland and Western Australia. Those railways were built by the mining companies but are owned by the State and the companies pay freight to the State for the use of those railways. 
When a mining company makes no profit, we incur no cost. But when it does make a profit we get 50 per cent of that profit in taxation- income tax, withholding tax, royalties and payroll tax. It is a sort of share farming agreement. 
It is no use interjecting to try to show that this country has not received tremendous advantages, because it has. It has received material advantages, social advantages and employment advantages. High wages on which income tax has to be paid are received by individuals who work in those areas. There has been decentralisation in a way that this country has never seen elsewhere. There has been no other form of decentralisation that is comparable with it. In these days it is fashionable to criticise all those things. All we have had from the other side of the chamber has been criticism of these tremendous projects. 
The Fitzgerald report was ostensibly objective but it omitted many aspects from its evaluation. It can be seen from the way in which the report was leaked to the Press for days during the middle of the last election campaign how the Government tried to build up hate against investment of this type. I, as a member of Parliament, could not obtain a copy of that report in order to examine its objectivity for 10 days or 2 weeks after parts of its contents had been leaked to the Press. It was a propaganda document; at least it was used in that way. Yet we have seen benefits flow to many areas not mentioned in the report- engineering supplies, building, and transport. An infrastructure of $450m has been built in this country. I repeat that $450m has been spent in this country and practically all of it on decentralised projects. 
I conclude by saying that there is substantial reason for opposing this Bill. All the false talk about mandates and ownership by the people is an attempt to bolster up a basically weak case. The proposals contained in this Bill are against the interests of the Australian people. Our opposition to it is based on that belief. We have every right and every duty to oppose the Bill. 
-I give notice that, as provided by standing order 133, on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That the Minister for Foreign Affairs be censured and the Prime Minister call for him to resign because of his indifference or negation of human rights in Australia as exemplified by his actions in the matter relating to Georgi Ermolenko, the Russian violinist who, being an adult, while in Australia subject to the full protection of Australian law made known to the Rev. Lance Johnston, Priest of the Church of England and sub-warden of St. George's College, Crawley, of the University of Western Australia, and the Rev. Berthwick, Priest of the Church of England and Tutor in Philosophy of the University of Western Australia, and Harold John Badger, Director of the Melba Conservatorium of Music, Melbourne, his desire to stay in Australia. 
Whereupon the Minister 
Knowing on Sunday11 August 1974, while he, the Minister, was in Perth, that Ermolenko wished not to return to Russia, failed to take steps to see he was fully protected. 
Knowing Ermolenko 's whereabouts, or having the opportunity to find out, failed to establish immediately on Sunday afternoon, evening, or Monday morning, the true and freely given wishes of Ermolenko. 
Allowed a situation to develop whereby the Rev. Johnston, Rev. Borthwick and  Mr Badger  (who were and are objective and truthful persons) were prevented from talking to Ermolenko, except much later at the airport for two minutes in company with all the Russians. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) During his last visit to China how much time elapsed between his meeting with Chairman Mao Tse-tung and his invitation to it 
Did he have to break off a meeting with the Premier, Chou En lai, and go directly to it without further notice. 
Did he take the opportunity at the meeting to make clear that he disapproved of Chinese testing of nuclear devices in the atmosphere, and to suggest that the French tests were more reprehensible than the Chinese tests. 
Has he ever suggested elsewhere that testing nuclear devices in the atmosphere by France is more reprehensible than testing nuclear devices in the atmosphere by China. 
If so, is the attitude of the Government based on the premise that the French tests are more reprehensible than the Chinese tests (a) to the world and (b) to Australia. 
If so, in what way are the French tests more reprehensible. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Was he consulted by the Minister for Labor and Immigration when that Minister prepared the Government's submission to the National Wage Case before the Arbitration Commission. 
If earnings are to continue to rise at the order of 16 to 20 per cent per annum, can he say how a reduction in the inflation rate is possible. 
) Does he take into account that, with an inflation rate of more than 13 per cent, 12 months of quarterly adjustments would so erode the real wages of the middle and upper income groups and skilled labor groups that pressure for further readjustments will be massive and industrial unrest assured. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the document which gave the Government a strategic appreciation, referred to in his answer to a question without notice in the House on 12 March 1973, been tabled; if not, will he do so. 
) If for reasons of security he is unwilling to make it public, will he quote the full paragraph in which the reference to the 15 years is summarised. 
If he is unwilling to do that, will he quote the paragraph with certain words omitted, with an indication of where any words are omitted, a technique used by the United States Government in publishing some defence documents. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Current Affairs Bulletin of 1 November 1 97 1 in which a case is made for not allowing the building of the Omega Navigation system in Australia. 
If so, has he had the arguments analysed and will he, briefly, set out the reasons for his agreement or disagreement with the arguments presented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government deliver protest notes to the Chinese and French Governments on 18 June 1974 for exploding nuclear devices in the atmosphere; if not, what form of protest took place; if so, were the notes in the same terms, or were they identical. 
Was the note to the French Government a stronger protest in any respect; if so, why. 
Was the protest in the notes in each case a protest against atmospheric testing, or testing in general. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he have undertaken an examination by a committee, or by each of his Ministers and himself, to see that all printed forms in use by Government Departments and instrumentalities, particularly those issued for the public to fill in, are as simple as possible and ask the minimum number of questions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What were the names and addresses of all the Australian Labor Party candidates for the 1972 and 1974 elections who have been provided in part or in full with employment by the Government. 
What is the nature of their duties, and what salaries and allowances are being paid to each. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the text of the guidelines issued by the Public Service Board indicating the restraints on Public Service or Government employees when making public statements of their own views. 
Did the Government participate in or influence the drafting of this document. 
3 ) Did  Mr Spigelman  advise on the matter. 
In elaboration of the Government's policy frequently referred to as "open government", does he regard this document as compatible with that policy and his many public references to the subject. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn io an article in the Army Journal No. 295 of December 1973 calling for some changes in Army uniforms. 
If so, would he give consideration to this question and advise me of the result. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the result of the Government's intention to place a greater proportion of Defence orders in Australia, referred to by him in a speech to the Industrial Mobilisation Course at Westernport on 12 February 1973. 
2 ) Does the current strategic situation still provide an opportunity to develop the industrial sector as an integral part of the nation's defence potential. 
Is it yet possible to give any details of likely Australian industrial involvement in the production of equipment which has been under consideration since the Government was elected. 
Is it still the attitude of the Government for a Service to accept on occasions some constraint on the technological complexity of its systems in order to make better use of Australian industry; if so, what are some examples of this. 
Has it been the experience of the Government while in office that in some cases Australian equipment has cost more than imported equipment; if so, what are the significant examples. 
-The Opposition wishes to dissent now from your ruling,  Mr 

 Speaker, because it believes that it is an incorrect one. As you would be aware,  Mr Speaker,  we have disagreed with your rulings on other matters. We do not believe that we can let this matter go by without making our full protest. 
-The Minister for Education speaks about obstruction. I point out to the House that he did not let me get into the third sentence of my remarks and explain the position as the Opposition sees it. I pointed out to you,  Mr Speaker,  that what is in dispute here is whether you have the right to demand an apology from a member after the one day sitting that was held in this House on 23 August when certain events took place at the conclusion of the proceedings. Some of those events are set out on pages 1 1 67 and 1168 of Hansard. Other events took place afterwards and are not recorded. You have ruled,  Mr Speaker  - 
The Government cannot take it. 

 Mr GARLAND That is exactly what I intend to do,  Mr Speaker.  I refer to standing order 304 which perhaps the honourable member may care to read. Under the heading 'Disorder' standing order 304 states: 
If the offence has been committed in the House, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question. . . 
That is the whole point at issue.  Mr Speaker,  you were in charge of the House- of course everybody agrees about that- at the time you were occupying the chair. On the last day of sitting you were in the chair but you did not force the issue, call for an apology and go through the motions that you have gone through this afternoon. You waited all these weeks and you have now brought the matter to a head.  Mr Speaker,  that is the ruling you have made and that is what happened. What the Opposition is dissenting from is the ruling which you gave and which was incorporated in Hansard in response to the request by the honourable member for Gippsland. 
If the honourable member cannot follow the debate I am afraid there is nothing further I can do to elucidate it for him. We are protesting about your conduct,  Mr Speaker,  and I think it is right to refer to the protests that have been made to earlier rulings. I make the point that we are opposing your ruling today because of the context in which it falls in your conduct of the House. I remind the House that the Government, which has undoubted rights and obligations to govern, nevertheless through its election of a  Speaker  and the conduct of affairs here has the obligation to allow Opposition members to speak and to ensure that rulings are fair and that the House is equitably run. The honourable member for Mackellar did his best all through that day to raise serious matters. You will be aware,  Mr Speaker,  that the Government has since appointed a royal commission to deal with one of those matters. The honourable member was prevented from speaking, so naturally he became upset towards the end of that day. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
I have only a certain amount of time. 
I have only a limited time, as honourable members know. These interventions and points of order are very interesting, but I should like to make one or two points. I point out that the matter before the House is your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  on the request for an apology. I point out too that there were some mitigating circumstances. I refer you to an item on page 1 167 of Hansard. At one stage the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  moved that the question be now put.  Sir, you  said: 
I promised to deal with a personal explanation pertaining to matters outside this House. 
You declined to take that motion - 
It is not fair to intervene; let me finish. 
-You must be fair,  Mr Speaker. 

 Mr GARLAND T agree with that and I accept that that was the position exactly. I was in the House and I was aware of that situation. I was saying,  Mr Speaker,  that this discussion is about whether the procedures of this House are being correctly carried out in relation to the ruling that was made. I am pointing out the mitigating circumstance which applies to the honourable member for Mackellar. Having declined to take that motion, which was the gag, several minutes of debate or cut and thrust took place and then you said: 
The question is that the House do now adjourn. 
That motion had been declined. The honourable member for Mackellar intervened on other matters, and then later you said: 
Order! I have not put the question. 
Then,  Mr Speaker,  you said : 
The question is that the House do now adjourn. 
The relevance of these extracts is that it shows that the situation was a highly confused one. The honourable member for Mackellar, believing that he had the right and duty to raise the 2 matters to which I have alluded already, did so. You left the chair. 
Our major point is that, if you wished to take action against the honourable member for Mackellar in the way in which you have this afternoon, it should have been done on that occasion and at no other time. You have said yourself that you were in charge of the House. You were in the chair. You were responsible for the conduct of the House. That is not in dispute. What is in dispute is your action this afternoon in raising the matter in these confused circumstances. I point out that you asked the honourable member for Mackellar to apologise for what happened when he was endeavouring to raise those matters. Naturally he felt very deeply about them particularly as he had in his hand at the time documents which indicated some corruption in the community. The Government has appointed a royal commission to look into one of those matters. It cannot be said to be a matter of no substance. In those circumstances, for you, in the name of the House, to ask the honourable member, as you did this afternoon, to apologise to you, is we believe incorrect. I suggest to you that it is not right and it is not fair. 
I conclude on the point that the essence of democracy is divided power and the essence of parliamentary proceedings in this House is fairness. Democracy includes the opportunity for minorities to have their voices heard. The Opposition has the right to be reasonably heard and to have standing orders upheld. This right is being stifled by your decision this afternoon and by your conduct on previous occasions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name and address of each person who is employed by a Minister and is a relative of that Minister. 
What are the duties, and what is the salary and any allowance of each such person. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the proposed multi-storey flat project in Kingston by Hooker Home Units Pty Ltd now in doubt. 
If so, is the reason because of the Government's policy of rent evaluation and /or value added tax on redevelopment projects. 
Does the Government consider that this project is desirable and the additional accommodation it would provide likely to help alleviate the shortage of accommodation in Canberra. 
Will he review existing policies with a view to encouraging provision of accommodation in Canberra. 
Is the present situation the worst shortage of accommodation Canberra has ever known. 
Is it pan of existing policy for the Government to take over this land concerned; if so, is this likely to be the pattern in future. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he take the opportunity to read the transcripts and evidence presented to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices relating to import prices. 
Did he discover any important point in relation to these industries or prices of which he or his officers were previously unaware. 
Has he found the report and recommendations useful; if so, in what way. 
What action has he taken to implement them. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Referring to his Press Release No. 18 of 14 March 1974, what was the reason he found objection to the 8 proposals mentioned in the second paragraph. 
What was it about the S proposals mentioned in the third paragraph that made him decide further consideration should be given and interim orders made which were published in the Gazette. 
Did he or his officers influence in any way the negotiations between the parties resulting in the termination and takeover proposals being withdrawn in the case of any of the 3 cases mentioned. 
What were the reasons, found upon detailed investigation, that there was no objection to 3 proposals. 
In the remaining 2 cases referred to in the press release, what precisely was the reason or reasons that he decided the proposed takeovers would be contrary to the national interest. 
How is national interest defined in this case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In what countries, and at what place, is it contemplated that land will be purchased and 
embassies 
high commissions, and 
other buildings erected to accommodate members of the Department of Foreign Affairs in the next 5 years. 
) In what countries, at what places and at what cost, has land been purchased for such purposes in the last 2 years. 
What land tenure has been obtained for new buildings in Tokyo, Peking, Hanoi, South American countries and Middle East countries. 
What was, or is expected to be, the cost of the land in each case. 
What is the actual or estimated cost of buildings in each country referred to in parts (l),(2)and(3). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) cost of public servants and other Government employees employed by departments and Government corporations and instrumentalities as at (i) 2 December 1972, (ii) 1 July 1973. (iii) 1 January 1974 and (iv) 1 July 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
As the majority of annual reports for a particular financial year are tabled in the Parliament during the Budget sittings immediately following the end of that financial year, why is there a continuing 12 months delay in the tabling of the report on Papua New Guinea. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister take the opportunity to read the transcripts and evidence presented to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices relating to meat prices and meatmeal prices. 
Did the Minister discover any important point in relation to these industries or prices of which he or his officers were previously unaware. 
Has the Minister found the reports and recommendations useful; if so, in what way. 
What action has the Minister taken to implement them. 
-The House will be aware of the notice of motion that I gave in the House at the one-day sitting some weeks ago. It was in effect, a motion of censure of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee).  The Government did not provide the necessary time to allow debate to ensue, which would have been the usual practice and which it is entitled to do under the Standing Orders. The matter relates to the activity of and the attitude taken by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relation to a young Russian violinist, Georgi Ermolenko, who was in this country. Members of the House will have heard or read about this matter in broad terms in the Press. This is the first opportunity I have had to raise the matter. I take this occasion- it is necessarily a brief one of only 10 minutes- to relate all the events which took place in some 4 days. I say to the Government that, if anyone suggests that what I am now putting is inadequate, I am prepared to put forward to the House at little notice all the details at my disposal if the time is provided later. 
My part in this matter can be stated fairly simply. I was informed at about 12.30 on Sunday, 14 August, that a young Russian violinist had said that he wanted to stay in Australia and did not want to return with the other Russians on an aircraft which was to leave at approximately 2.30 that very afternoon. I satisfied myself in the conversation which took place, that there was some basis for believing that this was true. I rang the Commonwealth Police and Customs officials, who act for the Department of Labor and Immigration when someone is leaving the country. I was informed that when the young man went to the airport- indeed, at this point he had already left for the airport- he would be in the company of certain persons with whom he had been associated in the previous week at the University of Western Australia. I was informed that those persons would see whether he wanted to stay. I subsequently learned that he had indicated that he wanted to stay; that the Commonwealth Police at the Perth Airport had made available a room for him; that he had left the airport; and that thereupon the other Russians who had been accompanying him had decided not to join him. Even in the limited time available to me this morning I shall repeat my notice of motion to the House. It reads: 
That the Minister for Foreign Affairs be censured and the Prime Minister call for him to resign because of his indifference or negation of human rights in Australia as exemplified by his actions in the matter relating to Georgi Ermolenko, the Russian violinist who, being an adult, while in Australia subject to the full protection of Australian law made known to the Rev. Lance Johnson, Priest of the Church of England and sub-warden of St George's College, Crawley, of the University of Western Australia, and the Rev. Borthwick, Priest of the Church of England and Tutor in Philosophy of the University of Western Australia, and Harold John Badger, Director of the Melba Conservatorium of Music, Melbourne, his desire to stay in Australia. 
Whereupon the Minister 
knowing on Sunday 1 1 August 1974, while he, the Minister, was in Perth, that Ermolenko wished not to return to Russia, failed to take steps to see he was fully protected. 
knowing Ermolenko 's whereabouts, or having the opportunity to find out, failed to establish immediately on Sunday afternoon, evening, or Monday morning, the true and freely given wishes of Ermolenko. 
allowed a situation to develop whereby the Rev. Johnston, Rev. Borthwick and  Mr Badger  (who were and are objective and truthful persons) were prevented from talking to Ermolenko, except much later at the airport for two minutes in company with all the Russians. 
consistently accepted the views of the matter as presented by the Russian Embassy officials. 
failed at any stage to acknowledge the facts relating to the first vital 30 hours of the case, now set out in affidavits of those involved. 
Other reasons were given but I do not have time to read them out at present. The next information which I received, at about 2.30 on that Sunday afternoon, was that the Russian violinist Ermolenko had decided to stay in Australia; that he was in the company of the Rev. Lance Johnston; and that they were meeting the immigration authorities early the next morning. I assumed that he would make an application to stay in the country and that the Government would give consideration to that application. It was agreed by those to whom I spoke on the telephone that, if possible, the matter should be kept as quiet as possible since it would not, in that event, create such hardship for Ermolenko or for his relatives back in Russia if he decided to stay in Australia. However, it happened that the matter was announced on the Australian Broadcasting Commission News that evening and appeared in the newspapers the next morning. 
At about 3 o'clock on the Monday afternoon I heard that Georgi Ermolenko had gone from the immigration office at 11 a.m. to the Parmelia Hotel, to which all the Russians had returned. I learned that he had been upstairs in the rooms for four hours and that the Rev. Lance Johnston and  Mr Badger  had been prevented by police, immigration officials and other departmental officials from actually seeing Ermolenko or indeed any of the other Russians. 
-That was true, and it has been fully documented since. I rang a representative of the Department of Labor and Immigration and the representative of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Perth,  Mr Henne,  to ask that they assure me that they personally had talked privately with Ermolenko and had received an assurance that he had changed his mind and wished to return to Russia. Let us not forget that when Ermolenko emerged from the immigration office in St George's Terrace, Perth, he gave an interview to the Press. It is at present on video tape. He said, inter alia, in English that he wished to stay in Australia. 
Separation was achieved in the hotel by the departmental officials as well as by the Russians. I was unable, between 3 o'clock and 5.30 on that Monday afternoon, in spite of three or four calls to the Department of Foreign Affairs in Perth, to get any assurance that representatives of the Department had spoken to Ermolenko privately and divined his real intention. Indeed,  Mr Henne  did not ring me, in spite of all the attempts I made and in spite of an assurance I received from an officer of the Department that  Mr Henne  would ring me. I was told that the aircraft was due to take off with Ermolenko and the other Russians at 6.20 that evening. At 5.30 I realised that I was being fobbed off. I went to the Perth Airport to find out the real facts of the matterwhether coercion was being used and whether the Government was co-operating. At that point- after more than 24 hours- I decided that the matter had to be made public. I think that is an important point.  Senator Willesee,  in his speech to the Senate on 18 September, tried to say that my statement to the 'Pelican' newspaper of the University of Western Australia that I had taken no public action was incorrect because of the conversations I had had quietly and without publicity with the Commonwealth Police and various departmental officers. Obviously no public action was taken by me, if one applies a proper interpretation of those words, because I thought that would be in the best interests of the man concerned and, indeed, of Australia's policy. Those who were present were not a rabble or all louts, as the Minister said. He referred to dogooders. Now he is trying to say that he agrees with my assessment that the reverend gentlemen and  Mr Badger  were truthful and objective. The Minister made great play of potential violence at the airport. Students from the University of Western Australia were at the airport. I would hardly believe that most of those students would be supporters of the Liberal Party. There were representatives of Amnesty International and representatives of 3 unions who, I think, could fairly be said to cover the whole range of political views. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  who is in the chamber, was there, as were various departmental people and certainly a number of immigrants who formerly had lived in Eastern European countries. There was a pretty wide body of people. As for violence, noise and so on, I have heard far more noise in this House and in the Senate than occurred at the Perth Airport. Those people were concerned and they had a right to be concerned because the Government simply did not assure them and did not give any opportunity for them to satisfy themselves that coercion was not being used. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard some information on this matter: An article in the 'West Australian' of 15 August titled 'Victim of a Bungle'; an article in the 'Daily News' titled 'Ermolenko- the 24 hours that Changed a Lifetime'; and the remarks made by the honourable Ian Medcalf in the Western Australian Legislative Council on 20 August, all of which set out the facts in this case, some opinion but mainly the facts which I think it is necessary for the people of Australia to have an opportunity to see. If the Government will not allow me to have that information incorporated the people can draw their own conclusions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the percentage cost of Defence hardware to the total Defence expenditure during each of the  last 10 years. 
Have there been any changes in categories or definitions used, or has there been any inclusions or exclusions of items during any of those years; if so, what were they, and how much in each case. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He will recall his speech to the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association referring to 'nervous Nellies' in the Australian Labor Party and referring to the peddling of lies by people about his tariff policies and saying: 'My own colleagues are among them'. He will recall saying that a Launceston company claimed that it had been forced to put off 900 people but in fact sacked only 360. Did he see a report, reportedly from Tasmanian members of the Labor Party and reportedly in particular the Minister for Defence, that if the Prime Minister had turned to the next page of the report from which he got his figures he would have found more up to date information showing 780 and possibly 900 sackings? Secondly, will he make himself responsible for releasing the report, which in the event no one has produced? 
-The Committee is debating the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Special Minister of State. I pay tribute to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is at the table, for his presence in the chamber. I criticise the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his absence from the chamber. Surely it is a primary responsibility of any Minister to be in the House of Parliament in which he sits when the estimates for his Department are being debated so that he can hear the views being put forward by honourable members. The debate on the Estimates is one of the few occasions on which the representatives of the people have the opportunity of asking questions and commenting upon the many items that make up the Estimates. I would like to know what is of greater importance to the Prime Minister than being present today in the chamber of the Parliament of which he is a member. 
-The honourable member for Franklin who is a supporter of the Government, says that he is away water skiing. I hardly think that is likely. It is more likely that he is at a museum and more likely still to be at a museum overseas. This brings me to the first point I want to make. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  will know, the Prime Minister or his Department was good enough to provide honourable members with some short notes on various items which are covered in this vote. I can comment briefly on some of them only because I have only 10 minutes in which to speak. 
Firstly I support and join with those who criticised the Prime Minister's too many visits overseas and, what is of course of much more importance, his extended absences from this country. I certainly believe that a Prime Minister should travel overseas to attend important conferences. But these conferences need to be impor.tant because there are many other demands on the Prime Minister's time. I do not believe that it is necessary for him to go away as much as he has. Also, I do not believe it is necessary for him to visit all of the tourist attractions that he has visited. If he wants to see tourist attractions he should visit Australian tourist attractions equally. But it is certainly of the utmost importance to the country and its people that he spends more time addressing himself to the main problems that affect this country, and the major problem that affects this country today is our economy- the condition of stagflation which the Prime Minister in his own speeches has admitted to be the main problems facing his Government. He is away too much and he attempted to defend himself when questioned about this at question time today and yesterday by making a lot of misrepresentations about the visits and activities of former Prime Ministers. Today he went so far as to say that some former Prime Minister had spent much more time than he did at Williamsburg in the United States of America. I do not know whether the Prime Minister was referring to  Sir Robert  Menzies when he said that.  Sir Robert  Menzies, of course, was in residence at the Richmond university there for many months, but he was not the Prime Minister at the time. He gave 6 very erudite lectures in that historic place in the United States which were recognised by scholars and the legal profession in the United States as being of a very high order. 
-Sir Robert Menzies was not there when he was in office. He was there as a former Prime Minister and constitutional authority. We have the spectacle of the Prime Minister making these misrepresentations day after day.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I do not wish to introduce a matter which is not the subject of the estimates we are now considering but I would just like to mention that the Prime Minister yesterday, when speaking of the Baltic States, gave an illustration that disproved his case and did not substantiate it. 
One can speak of the standard in which he lives in this country and travels overseas. No one denies that he must have adequate facilities and advisers. But consider the vast entourage that he takes with him when he goes overseas; the apparently limitless chartering of aircraft; the keeping of a residence in Canberra and in Sydney which are manned all the time by servants; and the purchasing of the second largest Mercedes car that was available after he had said when he was elected to office that a Galaxy LTD would be good enough for him. All of this shows a recklessness of conduct and an irresponsibility in the expenditure of public funds which - 
It was a 15-year-old Bentley, if the honourable member is interested. But the point I am making is that the Prime Minister says that the Government's policy is one of economic restraint, but what we see is just the reverse. The Prime Minister has set up a lifestyle, to use the modern jargon, in a most expensive way and he does not limit himself at all in time or in facilities which go far, far beyond what any Prime Minister would need. 
Page 1 of the document prepared by the Prime Minister or his Department, which I mentioned earlier, refers to the creation of 107 new positions in the Department of the Prime Minister and 45 more which I gather at present are vacant. Page 12 of the document refers to the acquisition of art. I just briefly say that if art is to be acquired surely considerable emphasis should be put on encouraging Australian art and large sums should not be spent on a few pieces of overseas art when there are so many pieces of art available here. There is a reference on page 14 to the entertainment of heads of State and other dignitaries to Australia. I agree with such expenditure. But I believe it is going a bit far for the Prime 
Minister to stand here as he has and say to members of the Commonwealth Parliament: 'I have invited you to my function and you will behave in the way that I set down'. After all we are being invited to a public occasion which is being paid for by public money. 
-Yes, you would get the impression that he was paying for it himself. In fact the taxpayers are paying for it. People are invited to the function because of the office they hold and not because of his generosity. Page 2 1 of the document gives the last instalment of the cost of the survey to determine the national anthem and everyone in this country who has taken an interest in this matter knows the survey was cooked. 
As my honourable friend says, it was a farce. The survey was not fair but it did cost a lot of money. 
I refer briefly to the fact that the Government since it first was elected to office has set up approximately 1 10 commissions for the purpose of investigating. We must be the most investigated country of all time. But this is perhaps the least important thing. The important thing is that the Government's legislative program is so full, so packed and so overflowing that it has no hope, even if it intends to do so, of bringing in for decades the findings of these commissions. Bill after Bill has been brought into this Parliament in haste and the backlog is tremendous. In many cases legislation has been poorly drafted. We in this place and then senators in the other place have had to look at this legislation and have it amended. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  must have the course record in this respect because I think that every Bill he has brought in here has had to have the heart cut out of it as a result of its being found to be completely impractical. The chambers have the role to look at such legislation and certainly the Senate has a role to review it. 
The fact of the matter is that the Government is trying to do too much too quickly. This is where I disagree with the political philosophy of the Government and the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister believes that progress should be made in certain areas he should bring in the relevant legislation at a pace at which it can be digested here and in the country. The legislation should be thought out before any attempt is made to have it implemented. If the Prime Minister avoids making such a mess of things when introducing policies he will not run the risk of a reaction occurring which sweeps away what progress has been achieved and perhaps puts objectives further back. 
I must refer briefly to that part of the 1973-74 annual report of the Auditor-General which deals with the Australian Council for the Arts. Some very critical comments were made in this area in the report. Some of them were: No procedures or instructions for uniform processing of grants; conditions applying to grants inadequately stated; inadequate support for expenditure from grants supplied by organisations; evidence of expenditure from grants for the benefit of the Council for the Arts rather than to grantee organisations; grants used for payment of staff engaged on duties for Council or boards; and so on. I would like to quote from a papagraph which appears on page 191 of the report which states: 
Numerous unsatisfactory features and errors were located in the accounts for travelling allowances and similar payments made to members of the Council and the Boards and to members of the staff. The incidence of error disclosed by the audit indicates an unsatisfactory standard of accounting. 
I believe that so much has been said publicly about waste, the high administrative costs, the high expense accounts by administrators in this area and about too little getting through to the artists and the performers, that it is time that the Prime Minister himself- it is his responsibilitydid something to have this matter cleaned up. 
Finally I join with those who have criticised the Government's policy to make the Public Service, as they are attempting to do in other fields, a political arm of the Government instead of recognising the great tradition in the Public Service of independent advice that is given to the government of the day.  Mr Menadue  who is partisan in favour of the Australian Labor Party has been appointed to the Prime Minister's Department by the Government. This appointment is breaking down the system. The Prime Minister is apparently impervious to the rightful criticism which thinking people have made of that decision. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-From among the claptrap just put up by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who has just resumed his seat- an adviser to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  before the last election and a Government supporter who I suppose must be listened to with a little more than passing interest- emerged one or two points with which I would be associated. He said that unemployment had been caused by the credit squeeze put on by the Government. That was a clear admission from his remarks. He said it was caused by the credit squeeze, which had since been lifted. That credit squeeze was brought on by this Government. Therefore the Government created unemployment. This is the Government that said that under no circumstances would it ever create unemployment. 
In the 9 minutes I have left I want to refer to aspects relating to the Budget and the economy of this country. This debate provides an opportunity in particular to those honourable members who did not get an opportunity to speak on the Budget debate itself. In the few moments available one can direct attention not to detailed estimates but only to the major problems which are facing the country today- the great threat to the standard of living of every individual, unemployment which is rising tremendously, inflation which is leading to the inflation psychology under which prices and wages are racing with one another trying to get ahead in a competition in which all lose, and an employment situation in which all the announced retraining schemes and special assistance schemes such as the regional employment development scheme are only a drop in the bucket. 
What we are seeing is a tremendous rise in the cost of living and a diminution in the financial and other security which people in this country have grown accustomed to having. The Government's pOliCY is undermining the security not only of the country as a whole but of practically aU individuals in it. Some of my colleagues say that it is deliberate policy; it is meant to undermine. They say that because socialism or nationalisation is still the No. 1 objective of the Australian Labor Party it is the deliberate policy of the Government. Indeed, recent statements by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  would rather support that view. 
Others say that it is not a deliberate policy; it is merely that the Government is impractical and incompetent in government giving rise to this crisis situation. But, of course, from the point of view of the man in the street the result is the same. Honourable members will remember seeing not long ago during the election campaign those election pamphlets which the Prime Minister authorised saying: 'Whitlam is the only man to reduce inflation by a third; Whitlam is the only man to reduce interest 3 per cent'. I take this first opportunity to say to the Parliament that those advertisements were false. The Prime Minister authorised them knowing they were false. They were deliberately false. 
In considering the position of the economy, the Government's assurances and the attitudes of the Prime Minister, let me summarise them in this way: The present inflation rate in Australia is the highest in living memory. Costs are increasing at a frightening rate, whether they are the costs to individuals or to production, which are paid by individuals in the end. Interest rates are at record levels, and we see in the Budget the mounting impact of taxation. The extent of that taxation is, I believe, yet dimly realised by the bulk of those who will have to pay it. I had the opportunity only 3 weeks ago of travelling for a few days overseas and talking with a number of economists and financiers, some from countries in Europe, some within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and others in New York and London. They were astonished to learn that the Government in the present circumstances of world economies and the Australian economy should have embarked on a Budget which would increase Government expenditure by 32 per cent when Australia had an inflation rate of 20 per cent- 20 per cent in a country where the effect of world oil price rises has been minute. The Government day after day compares our inflation rate with the inflation rate of comparable countries where the price of oil has increased threefold or fourfold compared with this time last year. 
The Government has fed the fires of inflation in many ways and has given rise to the problems we face today. But I believe that at the base what it has done in the course of the last 5 years, including the period it was in Opposition, has been to raise the expectations of every group in our community to believe in an impossible situationto believe that the Labor Party could fulfil all aims quickly, and that to do that would be practical. The growth that has been attempted in this country has been much too fast. There has been an attempt to cure too many problems at once, and the result has been that everybody has had to pay the price of undermining. We are seeing it now. Huge sums are being spent with irresponsibility, quickly, with waste, carelessly and in a way which adds to everybody's problems. I predict this will do far more damage than good. 
We have seen private industry almost stop further investment. That seems to worry the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  on the Government side. He asked a rather good question on the subject this morning. He did not get a good reply, but he asked a good question. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is sitting at the table, in the last few days alluded to the impracticality of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd having to produce steel for a return of 1 per cent on its invested capital. That is an important matter. It is not a matter only for industry; it is a matter concerning the growth of the economy of this country. How much the economy grows will affect the standard of living of every person in Australia. We do not have the resources to meet all the raised expectations in this country. They have reached impossible levels. 
So I say in summary that we have an economic crisis in this country and the root cause of it is the crisis of confidence the Government has caused. People ask: 'Why should I save? Why should I invest? Why should I work hard? What is my future and the future of my family? What security will I have and what security will my family have?' What are the true aims of this Government? Are the doctrinaire members of it in the ascendancy or not? They have naturally at this stage become fearful about the losses they may suffer. I believe they are fearful of the incompetence of some Ministers, the recklessness of some, the manoeuvring of some and perhaps above all the vanity of the Prime Minister. 
In this chamber this morning a matter of public importance relating to the economy was debated and the Prime Minister did not deign to be here. It was a debate on the major problems facing this country today and he was not here. In fact he disdains anything to do with economics in spite of the fact that he has said that economic problems are the major problems facing the country today. The Treasurer was present during the debate and he tried as usual to scoff at every suggestion made. People said that the upward revaluation of the currency was too high and too quick. The Government denied this, but the currency has now been devalued by 12 per cent. When it was first suggested that there was a credit squeeze the Government said that there was no such thing. When it was said that inflation would be bad the Government said that it would be nothing of the kind. I remember the Treasurer saying during a debate in this House last year: 'You must not say that such and such a percentage for the quarter is bad. You are making the mistake of multiplying it by four.' Now that the year has passed we can see that that multiplication by four was a very modest calculation. We have an inflation rate much greater than predicted. When the Government was warned about unemployment and told that it would rise it said: 'No, you are just alarmists'. When the Opposition said that the tariff reductions, in the way the Government was carrying them out, would cause hardship, the Government said: 'Any people affected will be re-deployed. That is not unemployment; that is disemployment. We will fix all that up'. 
I say that the time has come for the Treasurer and the Prime Minister to leave their positions. In the crisis we have the  Deputy  Prime Minister should become both Treasurer and Prime Minister in this country because, while I would seriously quarrel with his ideological purpose, there is no denying that he is more knowledgeable and attentive m economic and finance matters. Obviously with him is where most of the power lies in the Australian Labor Party today. By way of contrast the Prime Minister disdains any interest in the major problems facing Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many special positions have been created by his Government for persons who were Australian Labor Party candidates at the 1972 and 1974 elections. 
What were those positions, and what were the salaries, allowances, names and addresses, and duties of those filling them, 
-In reply to the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  who has just resumed his seat, I briefly take up the major point he made. He said that the Government was modernising the defence forces of Australia. What rubbish! He knows, or should know, that in respect of the equipment to which he referred- tanks and ships- with the exception of the ships all the decisions made by the Government have been for a continuance of studies that have been proceeding for a long time. He would know that many of the programs have been cancelled by the Government and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  He would also know that these decisions about the scrapping of the DDL program in order to provide an inadequate replacement will result in far less effectiveness for the maritime services of this country. One can only hope that that inadequate replacement will not result, in the years to come, in tragedy for Australian seamen. If it does, it will be that and that alone for which this Minister for Defence is remembered. 
I will refer to one or two particular matters this afternoon, which I believe to be a serious and improper use of Royal Australian Air Force aircraft authorised by the Minister; at any rate he is responsible for them. I refer to the use of 2 Fl 1 Is and a Hercules aircraft for an anniversary celebration, carrying postage stamps, in a most expensive exercise around Australia. By way of introduction I say the Minister must provide proper training programs for the Fl 1 1 and other defence equipment. Fills are, after all, highly sophisticated and expensive weapons and the Minister, I repeat, is responsible for them. Naturally they are run, of course, at tremendous cost. They are effective if we use them properly. To have them used in an inadequate way is to make a mockery of defence and of the defence services and will serve only to lower morale still further. 
From a recent publication we learn that a few months ago an Fill was used to carry 9,797 postage stamps and envelopes in its bomb bay. The aircraft was followed by another Fill. This actually happened in April this year. The aircraft apparently flew from Amberley, to Darwin, to Pearce in Western Australia and then to Edinburgh in South Australia. The first aircraft which carried the stamps in its bomb bay, had a back up aircraft. In turn they were followed by a Hercules aircraft which carried an unlocking device to open the bomb bay when the Hercules aircraft arrived 3 hours later. The flights were to celebrate an aerial survey of the coastline of mainland Australia 50 years ago by 2 officers of the RAAF. The publication states: ... the mail was confined to one machine with another Fl 11C following as a back-up aircraft . . . The scheduled landings were at RAAF bases at Darwin, Northern Territory, Pearce, Western Australia, where there was an overnight stop, and Edinburgh, South Australia. After leaving Edinburgh this aircraft flew over Point Cook, Victoria in a salute to the original flight before returning directly to Amberley ... All covers carried on the flight were postmarked with a pictorial postmarker illustrating a map of Australia, a General Dynamics Fl 1 1C bomber and a Fairey 1 1 ID. Backstamps were applied at Pearce and on return to Amberley. The stop-over period of two hours at Darwin and three hours at Edinburgh precluded back-stamping at those points. 
The covers were flown in the bomb bay of the aircraft and a special plastic covering was wrapped around the six mail bags to protect the contents from dampness caused by condensation which forms in the bomb bay at high altitudes. About ISO covers received at Amberley Post Office after the mail was despatched were carried by the crew in the cockpit but these items were transferred to one of the mail bags after backstamping at Pearce. 
Although the F111C arrived at Pearce at 3.30 p.m., ... the mail stayed in the bomb bay for another three hours awaiting the arrival of a Hercules transport. This much slower piston-engined supply plane carried ground staff associated with the flight, spares, and most important for the post office staff, an unlocking device which enables ground access to the Fl 1 1 C's bomb bay. The covers were handed over to the Post Office at 6.35 p.m., and the staff busily began applying backstamps 
Backstamping of covers was completed at 1.30 a.m. the following morning and the mail handed back to the RAAF at 6.30 a.m. for delivery to the waiting jets. The mail was allocated to the back-up Fl 1 1C, which was the first to take off. 
In view of what has been said in previous debates about the performance of the Post Office it is a pity that it is not more efficient in other areas. 
I bring this matter to the attention of the House because I believe it is the Minister's duty to provide adequate and proper training programs for this very expensive equipment which will help the effectiveness of the forces. In doing that we will raise the morale of the Services instead of employing the aircraft in ludicrously expensive celebrations of an anniversary. It is common knowledge that at Amberley recently, and perhaps today, only fuel for less than 3 hours flight time was available for the Fl 1 Is. 
-Less than 3 hours. What an idea of defence preparedness. I believe today an Fl 1 1 is marooned in Darwin after a recent exercise. Yet here we have a government which tries to say: 'We do not need any defence, but we have done a lot for defence'. The implication is always that the Government has increased the effectiveness of defence. In fact it is just wearing down. The reason for that is not hard to find. Any thinking person knows that half of the Labor Party does not believe in any defence and the whole of it is short of money. We have a situation where less and less is being spent in real terms, that is to say, adjusted to the inflation rate. The amount of money has greatly reduced and its effectiveness has reduced very much more. We have seen during the period of this Government a disgraceful run down in defence preparedness and effectiveness, a disgraceful run down in morale and, in those events to which I have referred, an incredible display of misplaced priorities. 

 Dr FORBES (Barker)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Does  the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I would not be anxious to increase unduly the numerical sizes of the services until their new strategic and tactical doctrines were developed and until the major re-equipment program had been launched. 
As I understand it the Government's objective for the Army is 34,000. It is not an undue increase to increase the size of the Army from 34,000 to 36,000. The honourable gentleman also suggested that in the last election campaign we said we would not increase defence expenditure. I said to him that that was completely untrue. Because the Minister felt vulnerable in defence matters he leapt on our defence policy and made a statement or had a statement issued from his office. As a result of the Minister's making that statement I issued a Press statement. After saying a lot about the differences between the 2 parties I said: 
None of this in any way contradicts the assertion made in our defence policy statement that there would have been no substantial increase in defence spending in the next two or three years. This is a legacy of the situation created by Labor. You cannot buy major defence equipment off the shelf. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I do not think the honourable member can either debate the question or bring in new matter. 
But we would have made the equipment decisions and put no limitation on the recruitment of manpower until we reached the objective we had set. In the years ahead there is no doubt that this would have involved substantial increases in defence expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he commission the inquiry which produced what is known as the Fitzgerald Report. 
If so, on what date was this done. 
What were the terms of reference, or contents of any agreement, or letter of arrangement. 
What was the fee payable. 
Were there other related expenses; if so, what were the precise details. 
When did he first receive indication of the contents. 
When did he receive the final payment. 
Were the press able to print large sections of the report before it was available to members of Parliament; if so, why. 
Did he or any of his staff release it in the middle of the election campaign in such a way as to prevent members of Parliament and other persons from obtaining a full copy before the press had given comments on its contents. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the economic crisis in Australia- mounting unemployment and price rises, with worse in sight- and his admitted lack of expertise in economic matters, and as the Prime Minister has often prided himself on being a good Australian, will he now serve the best interests of the country by stepping down as Prime Minister to make way for the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the only Labor Minister who takes a close and consistent interest in the critical economic areas of government responsibility? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a uniform or a special type of dress to be worn by Australian diplomats been under consideration by the Minister or officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Have designs been made or costumes made up (a) within the Department or ( b ) outside the Department. 
If outside the Department, who (a) designed and (b) made such costumes, and what is the estimated cost. 
What are the main features of the costume at present under consideration. 
-I address the House tonight on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in respect of this Bill. It is appropriate that I should, on behalf of the Opposition, congratulate the Country- Liberal Party on its overwhelming victory in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections. I hope that the Government will accord to that Assembly the same powers as it would have done had it been a Labor Party victory there. I hope the Government will not try to hamstring the Legislative Assembly because the electors have, in no uncertain terms, indicated what they think of the Government. One must pay special tribute to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  for the manner in which he is looking after the interests of the people of the Territory. 
I turn to another aspect of northern development, namely, the plight of northern Queensland. I believe it is important that I quote the words of the local councils of that area which replied to the Leader of the Opposition in response to a telegram he sent in June. I remind the House and the Government that the economic conditions at that time were not nearly as bad as they are now. The Government has really shown a lack of sensitivity to northern Queensland. I quote from the words of councils within the Federal electorate of Leichhardt, presently held by the Labor Party. The Shire Chairman of the Atherton Shire Council said: 
It is anticipated that through major increases in labour and costs of materials, that to maintain the council 's present work force and undertake the current program of works, substantial rises in rates and charges are envisaged. 
At the same time he said: 
Employment to date had not been unduly affected, but there is considerable uncertainty, and alarm and concern ure being expressed by some people . . . lt is not easy to think back and draw a realistic comparison, but I believe it is the suddenness of the present situation that is the more alarming. The shortages of most commodities - 
He was speaking of the situation in northern Queensland-  have become most noticeable during 1973 and are still most marked, but now development and further expansion are at a low ebb and must shortly trouble all sections of the community. People are now ceasing in initiative and we believe this will cause stagnation. 
What a striking indictment of the Labor Government 's policies this is from a northern Queenslander. I quote further from Douglas, another shire in the electorate of Leichhardt: 
Banks are hamstrung, all forward planning curtailed, all types of machinery, building supplies 6 to 12 months delivery if available. Grocer and general merchandise houses are forced to buy 2 to 3 months supply as deliveries so uncertain. 
-That is right. I am glad the honourable member emphasises that point, which I have already made. The position today is so much worse. At that time the  Chairman  of the shire made the point that the sugar harvest was camouflaging the employment position. At present in Queensland the unemployment rate has risen to 3.3 per cent or 25,900 for the month of September, seasonally adjusted and including school leavers. This is the highest for any mainland State. 
Moving further northwards to Cooktown, the Shire  President  there emphasised the depressed cattle prices and the exorbitant fuel costs. He, too, like his colleague in Douglas, anticipated unemployment increases and business retrenchments for the forthcoming financial year. Such is the position in northern Queensland. The Labor Government and its policies, as Tasmanian members have demonstrated, have not served the local area at all. By contrast, Bob Katter, the shadow Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory, has the complete confidence of the Opposition. He has done well in displaying his many abilities and in helping the needs of his community. He knows the problems and is fully aware of the problems which have been so eloquently put by the Shire  Clerk  of Emerald which is in his electorate of Kennedy. I ask honourable members to remember that this was written 4 months ago, since which time the position has deteriorated appreciably. However, it indicates the whole problems of the Department of Northern Development and its Minister  (Dr Patterson)  of getting the ear of this Labor Government. The Shire  Clerk  wrote: 
In 1961 the cattle market dropped maybe 30 per cent for only 3 months- currently prices after dropping for 8 months are SO per cent down and still falling with no end in sight. 
Carry-on finance for pastoralists is not available. Already unemployment has become a problem and station hands are being paid off. Town jobs are also in jeopardy as spending power becomes very restricted. 
The unavailability of employment is creating hardship for property owners whose credit and income are stopped and who need a job off their holding. 
He made 3 further points as follows: 
Serious shortages of plant, equipment and spare parts are holding up production. Breakdowns take weeks to restore instead of days. Delivery of new equipment is measured in months. 
The threat of an imminent locust plague hangs over the area and valuable winter crops are at risk. Federal financial assistance for the purchase of control insecticides is badly needed. 
The apparent lethargy and impotence of the Government to check the steep down slide is of prime concern as is the absence of regard for the developing seriousness of the rural situation. 
I notice the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  looking very thoughtful. I am sure this reminds him of another area much closer to home. I quote now from the Livingstone Shire Council which is in the Capricornia electorate held by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  That council wrote: 
The rural area of this local authority is being drastically affected as far as cattle are concerned. The market has not been so low since the fifties. The export market is practically non-existent, resulting in a glut of the local market. Pressure for a 35 per cent increase in the market will almost cripple it. A depressed state is also evident within the farming community. This is a probable result emanating from the position of the meatworks. 
That council quotes a specific example of how the Labor Government's economic policy is affecting local government. It stated: 
Some months ago council accepted a tender for 2 trucks. From the time of acceptance to supply, each truck price had risen $300 more. Recently a tender received for another truck increased $1,158 before the order was even placed. An increase in price is bad enough, but the period one waits for supply is unbelievable. 
Lastly I turn to the electorate of Herbert, which is so ably represented by Duke Bonnett. He has done a great job in presenting the case for northern development and has continually made the Liberal and Country Parties informed and deeply aware of the plight of the area. The Mayor of Townsville said: 
Whereas retrenchments were taking place in the home building industry this labour is being absorbed in commercial buildings which up to now have had a labour shortage. Real estate firms report sales and business investment almost zero because of lack of finance. Our loan allocation will be reduced in the coming year and problems are anticipated in loan raising. 
It would surely be tragic to see a city as important as Townsville for so many reasons, undermined by the same lack of Government sensitivity. 
In the limited time available to me, I have not mentioned the seat of Dawson, represented by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory. The Minister has been described jokingly as the Minister for Sugar. He has tried here but the fact is that the north of Queensland is not being developed. The high hopes which the Government had when it created the Department of Northern 
Development have come crashing down because the Government has not been sensitive. It has existed in a Canberra igloo. It has not talked to the people. It just has not bothered to find out. 
I speak on behalf of the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  who cannot be here this evening. The Bill before the House seeks to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1974-75 of more than $326m. This amount represents the grant component from the Federal Government of the State Governments' Loan Council programs for 1974-75. The Bill also provides for the making of grants in the first 6 months of 1975-76 on condition that such grants do not exceed more than half the amount allowed for in 1974-75. Payments made to a State under this legislation may be made out of Consolidated Revenue or from the Loan Fund. General purpose capital funds for State governments for 1974-75 total more than $lm, that is more than $326m in grants, and the balance of more than $700m consists of approved Loan Council borrowing programs including a temporary allocation to Queensland of nearly $ 10m for flood restoration purposes. 
The system of providing capital grants to the States follows arrangements that were made at the June 1970 Premiers Conference when the previous Government was in power. At that time we recognised the tremendous burden that was placed upon the States in financing their capital works programs, particularly items for which debt charges are not normally recoverable, such as school buildings, police buildings and the like. This is a most significant consideration as roughly half of the interest burden of State government budgets is not recoverable by charges on trading funds and trading accounts. As a result of the arrangements which were formulated at the June 1970 Premiers Conference the Federal Government undertook to provide, on a continuing basis, a portion of the State governments' Loan Council programs in the form of interest free grants in lieu of what would otherwise be borrowing by the States, in order to help the States to finance capital works from which debt charges are not normally recoverable. The saving to the States of debt charges by the operation of this system is significant. In 1974-75 the total saving has been estimated at $59.7m. 
Capital grants provided by this Bill represent 32 per cent of the total general purpose capital funds for State governments after adjusting for the temporary allocation to Queensland. This is the same percentage as operated in 1973-74. However, the Labor Government, by allowing this relationship to go unchanged, has made no allowance for the crippling interest rate burden that has been forced on the States through its economic policies. By failing to make special provision for the cushioning of the unprecedented rise in interest rates which has occurred in the past year, Labor has made a mockery of the whole purpose behind capital assistance grants-and that was to ease the burden of interest rate payments on the States. 
The following figures give some indication of the rate at which capital grants have increased as a percentage of general purpose capital funds for the States. For the year 1970-71 there were 200 capital grants, total general purpose capital funds were $823m and capital grants as a percentage of general funds were 24.3 per cent. In 1972- 73 there were 249 capital grants, total general purpose capital funds were $982m and capital grants as a percentage of total general purpose capital funds were 2S.4 per cent. In 1974-75 there were 327 capital grants, total general purpose capital funds were $ 1,027m and capital grants as a percentage of total general purpose capital funds were 32.1 per cent, to which I have previously referred. 
The increase in the basic loan programs for the States was increased in two stages for the 1974-75 financial year. At the 1974 meeting of the Loan Council, approved programs for the States totalled $934,919,000, that is $925m and the $9. 9m in temporary allocation to Queensland. An announcement was then made at the time of the 1974-75 Budget that the Australian Government had proposed that the States' basic programs should be increased by 10 per cent to $1,017,500,000. The decision to provide this increase was made in a frantic attempt to respond to the growing realisation that inflation was accelerating towards at least a 20 per cent rate by the end of this year. 
Because of the Government's assumption of full responsibility for financing tertiary education from 1 January, 1974, the States' basic programs take into account estimated capital expenditure of which the States have been relieved. The reduction agreed at the Premiers' ConferenceLoan Council meeting is $65.4m. When adjustment is made to take into account these differences so that comparison can be made with 1973- 74 it shows that the 1974-75 basic program for each State is 20 per cent greater than in 1973- 74. However, in view of the fact that the 1974- 75 Budget was formulated on the expectation of an inflation rate of 20 per cent in 1974-75 the States are receiving no effective growth in funds available at all. In fact in the current year further wage and cost pressures stand to undermine further the purchasing power of the funds that have been available to them. 
The 20 per cent increase in funds available to the States in 1974-75 must be viewed in comparison with the huge 32.4 per cent increase in Federal Government spending which the Labor 
Government has voted itself. One of the greatest acts of hypocrisy of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is evidenced by his behaviour in this area. At the June Premiers' Conference he made a plea to the States for restraints as he promised that the Federal Government would be alongside them as they all tightened their belts to fight off accelerating inflation. The Budget, only 3 months later, revealed the details of Labor's inflationary spending spree in complete contradiction to the Prime Minister's earlier promises. On an overall basis the States have been allocated an increase of 38 per cent, including the Loan Council Program. However, this is a misleading measure. Specific purpose grants have been increased by 67.7 per cent while general purpose grants have been lifted by only 22 per cent. In real terms, that is, corrected for inflation, therefore, the funds provided directly for the funding of the States' own programs have not been increased at all. 
The Federal Government's policy in regard to the States will add materially to cost inflation as State governments implement compensating increases in State taxes and charges. Unless an agreed system of revenue sharing on a fixed proportional basis is adopted, State governments will be placed in an impossible position; that is, they will have the responsibility for exercising clearly defined constitutional responsibilities without the necessary resources. The 1974-75 Budget makes a great stride towards just that outcome. In so doing it completely abrogates the commitments given by the Federal Government as to matching restraints of Federal outlays. 
The Liberal Party has just put forward a revenue plan that would be adopted with tremendous benefits for the States as soon as we return to Government. The proposal calls for a supplementary grant to the States to enable them to maintain their essential services without recourse to new or additional State taxation. This system contrasts strongly with the Federal Labor Government's attempt to gain political capital by making piece-meal grants to various institutions and industries. The smaller States in particular will benefit by having made available to them adequate funds which allow them freedom to allocate them as they see fit. 
Statements by Ministers of the Labor Government when referring to the States give a very clear indication that they are completely out of touch with conditions, particularly in the smaller States such as Tasmania. For example, while Tasmania is suffering from the most acute case of unemployment in Australia and the Federal Government's squeeze on funds to that State exacerbated its serious economic problems, the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, told Tasmanians: 'Stop whinging- Tasmanians are on velvet'. The policy we put forward in our Party platform includes the following vital aspects: 
Financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States to provide adequate and assured sources of revenue with which to carry out their constitutional responsibilities, such sources to provide the States with substantial income under their own control. 
The guaranteeing of an adequate proportion of Commonwealth personal income tax revenue for the purposes of the States, such proportion to be determined by the arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Continuance of national purpose grants, but grants to the States being free of restrictions in detail that infringe on the right of the States to determine policy in their areas of responsibility. 
The Opposition Parties are very seriously concerned at the trend that the Labor Government's attitude to the States has shown. The trend that is evident has far-reaching implications for the federal system of Government. The LiberalCountry Party believes strongly in the retention of Australia's federal system of Government. We do so because this system is most conducive to the progress and the well-being of Australia, and most conducive to the democratic protection of the freedom of the individual. 
I speak on behalf of the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  who cannot be here this evening. The Bill before the House seeks to amend the Pay Roll Tax (Territories) Act 1971-73 for the purpose of increasing the rate at which payroll tax is levied in the territories from  4Vi  to S per cent. The legislation is pursuant to the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to this effect in his Budget speech. The passage of this legislation will bring the rate of payroll tax levied in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory into line with the rate which, as from 1 September, has already been introduced into some State parliaments. The rates of payroll tax levied in the States and the Territories originally moved out of line following the transfer of payroll tax to the States. This measure followed the 1971 Premiers' Conference where it was agreed that payroll tax would be transferred to the States in order to give them access to a new growth tax to assist them in the budgetary difficulties which they were facing at that time. The States at that stage were anxious to obtain a new area of growth revenue to finance improvements in State services. 
The Australian Government continued to impose its own tax on the territories at the existing rate at that time of 2.5 per cent, with the rate being subject to review in the light of changes the States might make in their individual domains. The differential between the rate of payroll tax levied in the States and that levied in the territories at first developed when the States raised their rate from  2Vi  to 3V4 per cent, but the Federal Government did not follow suit in respect of the territories. The Coombs Task Force, reporting on the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government in June 1973, criticised this differential as a disguised expenditure. It said that it took the form of a concession to employers in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory by comparison with their counterparts in the States. The Task Force estimated the cost to revenue of the differential in rates- operative at that stage- at $2m in 1 972-73 and 1973-74 and $3m in the following 2 years. The rate of payroll tax levied in the territories was brought into line with the States since then, when in 1973 it was increased from  2Vi  per cent to 3  Vi  as from 1 September 1973 and to 4  per cent from 1 July 1974. However, since the States raised their rate to 5 per cent from 1 September this year, the territory rate is again lagging. 
During the debate on payroll tax adjustment last year, the Opposition expressed its agreement with the Government that there was no good reason why the territory employers should not be called upon to meet taxes and charges comparable with those borne by employers in the States. The Opposition recognises that the Federal Government is in no way bound to follow the lead of the States in fixing the rates of payroll tax. However, the maintenance of a differential rate could lead to anomalous situations. For instance, the operation of a lower payroll tax in the ACT would provide an artificial advantage to Canberra-based businesses as opposed to those based in Queanbeyan paying taxes to the New South Wales Government. The Opposition made it clear during the previous debate on this issue that we accept the standardisation of payroll tax as a general principle. However, at the same time we also stated our view that there could be valid reasons why certain special provisions should be made in respect of the Australian territories. In certain circumstances the operation of a differential rate of payroll tax could be considered, for example, to provide stimulation to the business community in a particular area. This possibility could be considered in an area which experiences particular difficulties and is isolated, for example, the Northern Territory. 
Another possibility is for the Federal Government to use funds raised through payroll tax in the territories for the purpose of assisting areas which suffered from particular disabilities. Such funds raised in the Northern Territory could perhaps be applied to the development of this area and for providing facilities which the Territory could not normally provide because of its sparse population and the difficulties and expenses involved. It is worth adverting to the original purpose of payroll tax. The levy was introduced by the Commonwealth Government in 1941 as a companion measure with the Child Endowment Act. Subsequently, payroll tax was paid into Consolidated Revenue, out of which child endowment was paid. 
Therefore, a tax originally introduced to finance a particular welfare expenditure has simply become a further element of a complex revenue raising system. The Asprey Committee 's preliminary report referred to payroll tax in the following terms: 
Many of the key features of the present tax system were introduced in the 1930's and 1940's for good short-term reasons connected with the depression and World War II, without much thought to their longer-run implications. This is true, for instance, of the adoption of sales tax in 1930, of the discontinuance in 1940 of company tax rebate on dividends to individuals, and of the introduction in 1941 of payroll tax (now under the control of the States) and Federal gift duty. Three decades or more later it is reasonable to examine the permanent consequences of these changes as well as to take stock of the piecemeal accumulation of minor changes that have since occurred. 
The Asprey Committee's preliminary report does not provide a basis for any re-assessment of payroll tax. Regardless of the original purpose of payroll tax, this levy is now well entrenched in the system netting an annual figure of a not insignificant $700m. In terms of the territories the growth has been particularly rapid as would the burden of the levy as the rate has been doubled in just over a year. The increase from  2Vi  per per cent to 3V4 per cent operated from 1 September 1973 and the increase to  4Vi  per cent operated from 1 July 1974. The increase to 5 per cent will come into operation in respect of wages that become payable on or after 1 December 1974. This doubling of the rate in respect of the territories in such a short time should be compared with the fact that payroll tax when this Government came to power in December 1972 was still being imposed at the same rate as that originally introduced in 1941, that is, at the rate of 2Vi per cent. 
The impact on businesses in the territories of this increase must be considered in relation to the other tax increases which they have had to sustain under this Labor Government. Notwithstanding the reductions in company tax introduced last night, the increases in tax on businesses include an increase in the rate of private company tax from 42  Vi  per cent to 45 per cent, the same rate as public companies pay without a comparable reduction in the tax on retained profits; the introduction of capital gains tax; the removal of the investment allowance and substantial cuts in deductible items for tax purposes. These increased taxes must be considered in line with the introduction of quarterly tax collection which places another, and often an intolerable, burden on company liquidity at a time when severe credit limitations are still applicable. 
The fact that the States have been forced to make frequent and substantial increases in the rate at which payroll tax is levied is an indication of the inadequacy of the funds allotted to them by the Federal Government. The burden which this tax places on all Australian businesses appears to have been completely disregarded by the Federal Government in its decisions on funding for the States and its decisions to make so many varied and substantial increases in company taxation. An additional facet of this tax which should be considered is the huge increase in the amount of tax as a percentage of rapidly increasing wages, not all of which are recoverable in increased prices. 
The Opposition Parties, however, support the proposal before the House to standardise this tax as we believe that under the present system anomalies in the rate between different business communities could operate to the detriment of the States. However, we stress that this area is one in need of review and we express the hope that the final report of the Asprey Committee will provide a thorough appraisal of the situation and suggestions which can restore the use of this levy to its rightful perspective in the overall taxation mechanism. 
-On behalf of the honourable member for Hotham,  Mr Chipp,  I move: 
After clause 6, insert the following new clause: '6A. Section 10 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "three years ' ' and substituting " five years ". '. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. What are the purposes of his impending visit overseas? What countries will he visit? When does he propose to leave? What period will his visit cover? What will be the size of his entourage? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What were the levels of radio-activity detected by measurement equipment under the control of the Australian Government in each month of the last 10 years. 
Is it possible to distinguish the country or region of origin of such fall-out material. 
If so, what percentage of detections is identified as being from each country of origin. 
How does the radio-active strength compare in each case with (a) natural background, (b) chest X-rays, (c) teeth X-rays and (d) increased radiation to travellers in aircraft flying at the usual height of approximately 30,000 feet. 
Is it considered that any Australians have suffered illeffects from radiation from the sources in part (3) or that it will affect unborn Australians, if so, would he indicate precisely how this conclusion has been reached. 
As chest X-rays are compulsory for residents of the Australian Capital Territory, has any detailed evaluation been made of the benefits to be achieved on the one hand and the possible risk on the other; if so, what are the precise findings of this evaluation. 
Will he ensure that the answers to the above questions are in simple, unambigous language, capable of being understood by those not trained in the connected sciences. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his press statement No.  292  of  1  August  1974,  what is the meaning of the reference to the new visa requirements in the fourth paragraph, for all persons entering Australia from the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, New Zealand and Fiji, that it will also provide a manpower control, which has been absent in the past. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Have there been, or are there, difficulties in the efficient and tidy collection of rubbish in Canberra. 
If so, what were or are those difficulties. 
Are the existing arrangements considered to be satisfactory. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he state before the 1972 election that he would keep expenditure at a similar level to the present Government; if so, what precisely did he intend. 
) has this been the result, and what in brief has been the result. 
What is the current level of expenditure as a percentage of the estimated current Gross National Product 
What were the exact words used. 
-The Opposition has today brought forward this matter of public importance: 
The dangerously misconceived view held by the Treasurer designate - who has just resumed his seat- that Australia's level of inflation and unemployment are derived from external economic events. 
The whole tone of the speech of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was that none of the conditions in Australia today are his fault. Indeed, he adopted a very injured tone. He was inclined to take up some time in complaining that we have an immoral position and that it is only he who has the moral position. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Minister had more time than I have and he is just trying to squander my time. He quoted statements of various people overseas in a way that would indicate that they were quotes by eminent people which undercut the arguments of the Opposition. He laid great stress on saying that what we have in Australia today in high inflation and high unemployment is a world problem. He even made some attempt to bolster this argument by referring to the mineral boom of 1970, grasping at straws, and ended with these words: 'As soon as we became the Government we tried to reduce inflation. ' Those words are on the record. At the end of 1972 inflation was 4.7 per cent, and the  Deputy  Prime Minister knows that full well.  His  statement was made, I believe, deliberately to mislead. But the point I make in response to all his quotations is that nobody on this side-no leader, no shadow Minister- has said that all the problem is made in Australia. The Government has made that case the foundation of its argument- that we have been maintaining that the problems in Australia are all created in Australia. Point out to me one shadow Minister or leading spokesman for the Opposition who has said so and where it is recorded. 
It emerges from the speech of the  Deputy  Prime Minister that he is not really trying to face up to the reality that Australia has to live with at the present. He is trying only to explain it away. He said at one point: 'Well, maybe I am wrong.' I believe he is wrong. But the rest of his speech does not indicate for one moment that he imagines he is wrong. On the contrary, he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  go round Australia finding scapegoats everywhere. Now it is the Treasury; it was the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  They sacked him. They blame the multinationals, the Press, big business, the nervous Nellies of the Caucus, world wide inflation, the Senate, the State Premiers- especially at the moment the Queensland Premier- the unions, the airline pilots, the Caucus and the weather. All those things in turn have been blamed but the fact of the matter is that it is the Government which has the greatest influence- not the only influence- in this country, and it just will not face up to the facts. 
Let me quote the comment of an Australian on this. I think the comment is as succinct as any. It was made by  Sir John  Marks quite recently at the annual general meeting of shareholders of F &amp; T Industries Ltd. He said: 
True, we are not the only country in the world to experience inflation. We are frequently reminded of this and consoled with pious observations that our level is about half way up the world scale. Make no mistake about it- most of our inflation has the label 'Made in Australia' firmly attached to it. Our economy is quite different to those of most of the countries with which we are being compared. We do not, as yet, have to import substantial quantities of oil; we are selfsupporting in food, minerals and most raw materials; we have a strong secondary industry capable of meeting, if necessary, the greater part of our requirements for manufactured goods. 
That gives the lie to all those quotations that were given by the Minister. The Government in fact during its period of office has failed to act when the money supply was too great, as it was in 1973. It allowed our great reserves, which at one stage were $6,000m, to be frittered away. It reduced that buffer we had against the outside world largely by its cut of the tariffs by an unselective 25 per cent. It has actively encouraged increases in wages demands and conditions demands. It built up in this country an expectation that every desire, every ideal objective, could be answered and answered quickly. The Government is the cause of the great cost push inflation and the rising costs in this country which allowed our inflation rate to get to a much higher level than it should have reached. This Government has indulged in business bashing to the point where very few companies in this country today wish to invest. They do not have confidence because they do not know what is around the corner. This position has arisen because of the hatred- I use that word deliberately- of business, which most members of the Labor Party in this place have, both international and Australian business. As a consequence the Government has ruined productivity in this country. It has ruined that confidence which is so necessary to expand the productive sector of this country. I do not mean only the private sector but also the sector that actually produces or attempts to produce a surplus. When  Dr Cairns,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, comes in here and in order to make an argument which he can answer, says 'You are trying to say that all Australia's problems are internal', he exaggerates the charge out of all common sense. No one is saying that. No one is making such an unqualified statement. But I will say that half our inflation rate is caused by this Government's policies over the last 2 years. 
In New Zealand, as we heard earlier, the inflation rate is half ours and, incidentally, the employment figure is less than 1,000 there. There is something that this offshore island can teach us. 
It is well known that New Zealand 's Labor Ministers privately criticise the Ministers of this Government and their silly policies. Anyone who cares to go there and talk to them will hear it said quite freely. On all these great issues facing the country the Prime Minister is virtually silent and when he does speak on economic matters, what an unconvincing man he is. The fact of the matter is that he is uninterested in economic matters. He is unsure and he runs away from them as often as possible. 
The Government has taken a number of steps in order to meet the situation. It has received much criticism from its own back benchers and no doubt Labor Party branches and of course the Press. But the measures that have been takenunfortunately I do not have the time to analyse them as I would like to- have for the most part been ill-timed and spasmodic and in many cases the Government has let golden opportunities pass by. I will mention one of these. The Government had the opportunity before the Budget was brought down to have that conference which was so badly needed with unions and industry to provide a chance to make some sort of a contract, but it threw it away. There was an opportunity to say to the unions, 'We are prepared to do many things, for example, to alleviate pressure in the area in welfare and to help with other areas if you will moderate your demands' but it threw it away and it will not come again as easily as it did before. 
I have referred to the Government's attitude of finding blame. It blames everybody. It blames everybody who comes along. Most recently it is the Treasury officials whose dedication surely can hardly be doubted by any member of this House who has ever talked to them. But the crux of the matter is that this Government will simply not face economic facts. It encourages inflation and particularly cost inflation. It has mishandled the money supply from beginning to end. The Prime Minister's only economic knowledge is expressed in talking about 'too much money chasing too few goods,' but he does not even seem to know how to control this aspect either. 
The Government has put forward the view that it is trying to enter into some social contract with unions. It has no chance whatever of succeeding the way it is going about it. This matter of public importance has been brought forward today to point out to the Australian people the dangerous situation. It is dangerous because we are being lulled into a false sense of security. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister conducting, or to conduct, a television campaign aimed at educating Australians in the working of Government. 
If so, how will the Minister ensure that the material does not favour the Government Party, or act to the detriment of any political Party. 
Will it present Ministers on camera. 
What is the estimated cost of (a) production and (b) viewing or publishing during (i) 1973-74 and (ii) 1974-75. 
What is the name of the advertising firm and all persons and firms and sub-contractors connected with this campaign. 
If Ministers are to be on camera, will he provide equal time for Opposition members to do the same. 
What person or persons will decide on the final content of the scripts. 
Is the campaign to be entirely on television or will other media be used; if other media is to be used, which media. 
How will it be determined which segments will be shown on the ABC channels and which on commercial channels. 
Will material purporting to explain aspects of the workings of Parliament be issued in the name of the Government or Parliament. 
-The House is debating the Income Tax Bill 1 974 and, as set out in the explanatory memorandum, there are 4 main aspects to the Bill: The variation of the general rates of tax payable by individuals, the imposition of a surcharge on tax on property income, the age rebate and rates of tax payable by companies. I read again to the House the amendment proposed by the shadow Treasurer,  Mr Phillip  Lynch, which is before the House now: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the provisions of the BUI which impose a surcharge on unearned income are inequitable, anti-social, damaging to community incentive and economically incorrect in a period of costinflation and that the Bill specifically: 
imposes additional burdens on Australian pensioners by decreasing the special rebate for aged persons, and 
provides a seriously incomplete response to the downturn in private investment by reducing public company tax rates to 45 per cent'. 
Having said that, I want to refer to one or two aspects which arise from three of those four ' headings in the Bill. I refer first and foremost to the general taxation rates, the rates that apply to individuals. We have seen in the current year 2 changes to those rates. The first change, which was announced in the Budget Speech on 1 7 September, was to the pay-as-you-earn tax schedule which is issued and which affects most income earners because they are salary and wage earners. This change took effect from 1 November. Again in the Prime Minister's very recent speech of a week or so ago another scale was proposed. I believe the first reduced by about $450m the tax that would have been received, and the second reduced it by $600m- and this from a government that poured such great scorn on the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  when he said during the election campaign of May last: 'We think it is right that a tax cut should be made of the order of $600m'. He has now said, for reasons I will come to, that it ought to be reduced even more. But let us clearly face the fact that the Government made some sort of reduction and only a few weeks later did almost exactly what the Leader of the Opposition had proposed. The Government has greater access to the statistics and to advisers than the Opposition has. It ought to have seen then that the reductions were going to be necessary, that it was going to be equitable to reduce tax, for reasons which I will come to, and ought not to have been pushed into it, reluctant to give individual taxpayers what the man in the street would call and recognise as a fair go. 
The Budget has been changed dramatically in many areas. It was presented to the Australian people only on 17 September- not very long ago- and it has already had 2 major revisions and a number of smaller ones. I do not believe that that is good enough for the major fiscal document. It ought to have been possible to foresee changes that would be necessary. It is not as though there have been any striking international events- although I believe that international events play a part, but only a part, in our Budget and in the Australian economy. No striking event has happened since 17 September. The crux of the matter, surely, where the gathering of income tax is concerned, is that we are living in conditions of extremely high inflation, and that means that most people's incomes are rising tremendously in order to try to keep up with the cost of living. That is inflation. The result of it is that people's incomes get into higher and higher tax brackets. Every honourable member in this place knows of cases where people- public servants are certainly to the fore- are actually going backwards . because out of their increase in salaries and wages they are having to pay greatly increased income tax and greatly increased superannuation contributions. I know of cases where people are getting less money, not only in real terms but in absolute terms. 
The Treasurer, when the present Government was in opposition, made many speeches in this place, and anyone who cares to read back in the late 1960s, for instance, will see the pleas that he made time and time again for a revised tax scale, for a more equitable tax scale, for changes in the increments. Yet in government the Labor Party does the very reverse. The tax being paid is as a percentage of wages, higher than ever before. It is not just a question of adjusting for inflation; people's incomes are in higher tax brackets. Let me make this clear, because I am astonished at the reaction of economic commentators in this country, who represent to the public of Australia that the $600m and the $450m-I hope I have got the figures correct but they are of that orderare tax cuts. I say they are not tax cuts at all. What has happened is that a slight readjustment of the tax scale has been made in order to resist a little of the greatly increased tax which the Government is getting from inflation. The Government, through the Treasury, is harvesting the inflation in this country and the amount of income tax receipts budgeted for this year, and the amount that was actually received last year, show a tremendous rise over the tax that was received in earlier years. I am not going to bore the House with statistics, but that principle is most important. 
The Government has shown no real effort in trying to put people in the position in which they were before. It has shown no effort at all. Indeed, these rapid changes indicate that it yields only to the strongest political pressure from the Caucus. 
So it is natural that people should try to find a system of taxing which is fairer. People talk about tax indexation. I do not know whether this country will or can adopt such a scheme. It is an extremely complex scheme. There are reasons why it ought not to be brought in, but one can understand people asking for it. One can understand people saying: 'For heaven's sake, it is no use getting another 10 per cent, 20 per cent, 30 per cent, 40 per cent increase in wages in an effort to keep up with prices if we are going to be paying higher and higher personal income tax, not on a proportional but on a percentage basis. ' 
It is confiscatory, and I believe that the Government is deliberatelyperhaps one should be kinder and say negligently- allowing greater and greater amounts of personal income tax to be gathered in this way so that people are worse off than they should be. I think this is described in one part of the Budget as being a transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector. In my view, that is rather an overly formal way of putting it. In the last 2 years we have seen the taxes on individuals increasing enormously. What is more, there is every sign to anybody who sits in this House that taxes will continue to go up. Apparently one can only deduce that the Government wants taxes to go up so that it can use that extra money. 
I simply make passing reference to these matters which appeared in the Asprey Committee's report. There are just 2 other matters in the Committee's report to which I wish to refer quickly. I think that most people who are interested in tax matters have waited with a great deal of interest to see the Committee's report. After all, these are highly technical matters. They are beyond the resources of most people. We want to see what is the outpouring of the Committee as a result of all of the evidence that it has received and as a result of high quality documents submitted to it by the Department of the Treasury. We want to see the result of the Committee's consideration of these things. 
Two things occur to me. Firstly, I hope that when the final report is brought forward from the Committee and tabled that we do get, because of its importance in reviewing tax matters in the years ahead, a much more obvious distinction between the factual information that the Committee received in submissions and its interpretation of what ought to be done as a result of receiving that factual information. It is not too clear to me where the facts end and the value judgments begin. I hope the Committee will take an interest in this debate and note that point, because its final report will be an extremely important document to this country. The inquiry that it is undertaking is not an exercise which will be done very often. 
The other thing that really rather shocks me about the Asprey Committee's interim report is the great burden of tax which obviously it is going to recommend be put on the taxpayers of this country. It is not easy to point to a section of the report and say: ' Well, that is illogical ' or ' that is an invalid reason'. But its recommendations add up to the fact that a tremendous weight of tax which obviously the Committee thinks is equitable, will be levied on the people of this country. I am opposed to a greater increase in the percentage of gross national product or gross domestic product of taxation. Just to take one illustration, it is no argument to say: 'If we bring in a capital gains tax and it raises a certain amount, and it is more equitable to raise it in this way, a smaller amount of income tax will need to be levied'. That could well be a fallacious argument. Every honourable member in this place knows that income tax will be levied at a certain rate, and a reduction in that rate will come about only when the Government is forced to yield, as it has been forced to yield twice in this year. This is referred to in the Bill before us at the moment. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  rightly emphasised the disincentives which are contained in personal income tax scales and other tax scales recently introduced in this country. He rightly emphasised the need to encourage people to work harder and to try to raise their standard of living by their own efforts and, incidentally, to raise the standard of living throughout the country by those efforts, instead of taxing people to the point where they say: 'Why should I work harder? Why should I work extra overtime? Why should I, if I am a dentist or a doctor, open my surgery for 5 days a week when I can open it for 3 days a week and still live well and not pay so much tax?' The matters raised by the honourable member for Lilley are important to the national economy. I know that they have been said many times. I know that these things are hard to prove. But I am absolutely convinced that this question of incentive is important to the productive capacity of this country. I think we are getting beyond the point at which this sort of situation is for the general good. 
Just on the general subject matter, I come back to my point that for many years the Treasurer said that the tax scale needs to be restructured- I think that was the word he used- or needs to be revised. But there is a tremendous reluctance to revise the tax scale in the very year in which such a tremendous harvest is being received. I do not know where we are headed when the Government cannot do this in a year when it does not have pressures on it. I can only assume that it will allow income tax charges to grow and to rise to much higher levels than they are today. That is the only conclusion to which one can come. 
I wish to make just one or two quick observations on two other aspects of the Bill. I refer, first of all, to company tax. The way in which the Government's proposal in relation to company tax was presented in the second reading speech was, to say the least, a little unclear. I shall endeavour to make it a little clearer. Public company primary tax is to be reduced from 47 V4 per cent to 45 per cent; private company tax will not change. It will remain at the same level at which it has been during the last year. It will not rise although originally it was said that it would rise. I repeat, it will remain the same. That is, I suppose, very nice. We all know that the private sectorthe income surplus producing sector- of the economy does need encouragement, does need to believe that it has got prospects of good returns on its capital, if it is to employ people and if it is to invest. It needs what is referred to so much around this place- confidence; that willothewisp which is so very hard to achieve when it has been lost, as it has been lost. 
But this confidence will not be gained by reducing public company tax by 2  lh  per cent. I hope the Government does not think that this is the only measure necessary to instil confidence. After all, the Government is very largely responsible for having broken down that confidence by its business bashing and by its display of hatred wherever it has been possible. Now it is paying through unemployment and unpopularity some of the price for it. But the present trend has to be stopped by a series of measures and in such a way that people believe that if they expand and they employ more people they will with certainty receive greater returns for their endeavours and for their capital. I simply say that a reduction of  2lA  per cent in public company income tax is by no means going to be enough. It is a small help. The amendment moved by the Opposition takes that matter into account. 
I want to say that the Opposition taxation committee of which I have the honour to be  chairman  at present has received some very helpful advice on not only this complex Bill but also the other 4 complex Bills that we will be debating immediately following the debate on this 
Bill. At recent meetings of the Committee they have been able to help us to understand exactly what was intended. After all, anybody who knows anything about income tax Bills knows that they are extremely complicated. I want to place on record now the very fine help we have received- of course, in a completely non-political way- in understanding what was proposed and the impact of the proposed provisions. 
Lastly, I mention that aspect of the Bill headed: 'Surcharge of Tax on Property Income'. That is what members of the Australian Labor Party like to call in their speeches a tax on unearned income. That is a very revealing phrase when you think about it. The phrase 'unearned income' contains the implication of something being undeserved. It is nothing to members of the ALP that people save and work to acquire assets to rent and to gain interest and that many people in retirement have spent their lifetimes putting away a bit of money in order to do that. They just view this as part of the capitalist system, that system which must be swept aside. Therefore, they say: 'We will put an extra tax on it'. 
Anyone who knows anything about the way in which this Government Party operates knows that members of the Government thought they would find a clever and attractive trick. It was decided to abolish radio and television licence fees of the Postmaster-General's Department, which raised about $70m a year for the Government, and to recoup that lost income the Government would tax this wealthy group which earned money from funds collected by way of interest or from rent. That was a smart idea. It was expected that such a tax would raise about $50m a year. Of course, the whole thing backfired. I cannot say that I am terribly sorry about that. In the first place, those people whose PMG licence fees had just come up for renewal could not get a refund of the fees they had paid and they felt very bitter about it. Some thousands of letters flowed into the offices of members of Parliament on that subject. In addition to that, by giving inadequate consideration to this so-called unearned income tax, the Government realised that it was hitting many people who were in the lower income group. The Government had to make an amend.mentment to the proposal and say that this highly inequitable tax would not apply if a person's income was less than $5,000 a year. In other words, the Government stated that it would try to get at those people with higher incomes. I think that only illustrates the shallowness of thinking. I am told- perhaps some Minister may care to deny it- that after days of discussion about where money would be spent, five minutes was spent on that. 
-The House is engaged in a debate on several Bills. They are the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1974, the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1974, the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill 1 974 and the Estate Duty Assessment Bill 1 974. 1 think it is a great pity that the House has to debate these Bills in this way. It was the desire of the Opposition that they be debated separately. But in order to be able to have 5 speakers from the Opposition side it was necessary to agree to the Government's proposal that the Bills be debated in a cognate debate. As I say, I think this is a pity because these Bills are clearly dealing with very different matters. 
The first Bill contains a great list of virtually unconnected changes to the Income Tax Assessment Act. Clearly, the references to bearer debentures and double taxation agreements with other countries, let alone estate duty, which is death duty, are obviously unconnected matters. However, having said that, I want to address a few remarks to those matters. Firstly, I speak in respect of the Income Tax (Bearers Debentures) Bill. The Bill seeks approval to increase the. basic rate of tax payable by a company under section 126 of the Income Tax Assessment Act on interest paid on bearer debentures where the company does not disclose to the Commissioner of Taxation the names and addresses of the debenture holders. The principal Act declares that the rate of tax payable by a company on interest it has paid or credited on bearer debentures in cases when the holders are not disclosed. The company in turn may deduct from the interest payable to a debenture holder the tax it will be required to pay on that interest. 
The holders of debentures can avoid any deduction of the tax under these provisions from the interest payable to him by the company by simply disclosing their names and addresses when collecting the interest. The provisions of the income tax law which provide for tax to be payable in these circumstances were designed to provide an incentive for taxpayers to furnish their names and addresses so that the receipt of interest could be checked into their income tax returns by the Taxation Office. Alternatively a withholding of tax would be suffered at the source. Accordingly, it is essential that a high rate of tax be fixed in order to prevent evasion. The present rate of tax on such interest, other than interest paid abroad where the rate is equal to the general interest withholding tax rate, is the average rate applicable to the taxable income derived by an individual in receipt of an income of $16,786. The rate has been expressed in this form since 1946 when the rate was that applicable to an income of 8,393, consisting of property income. The rate at that time was set at a high level in order to prevent evasion. The rate was approximately 15/- in the f 1 and as such was approximately equal to the maximum rate of tax on property income. 
As rates of tax have fallen over the years since 1946 the rate of tax payable under these provisions has fallen to what could no longer be regarded as a deterrent to evasion. At the rates of tax proposed for 1974-75 it would have been less than 39 per cent, which is considerably below the normal company tax rate and less than the marginal rate of tax payable by an individual in receipt of a taxable income in excess of $7,000. Taxation statistics for recent years show that, apart from the most recent year, no assessments have been raised under these provisions. In the latest year for which statistics are available there was one such assessment and it is possible that if the rate were left at its present level there would be an incentive for more holders of bearer debentures not to disclose their names, to accept this tax rather than disclose the interest in their returns, and pay a higher tax. The proposed rate of 55 per cent will be the same as that applicable under the other anti-avoidance provisions- for example, section 99a of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The Opposition supports that Bill. 
The principal purpose of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill is to amend the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act as a result of the comprehensive double taxation agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany. The agreement was signed by the former Government in November 1972. The other amendments proposed are consequential to associated legislation. The first relates to the surcharge on property income contained in the Income Tax Bill, which has just been passed, and the second relates to the rebate for low income taxpayers with families as proposed in the Income Tax Assessment Bill. The Opposition supports that Bill. The amendment arising from the German agreement is along the lines of the present arrangements that Australia has with other countries. However, there is a particular area which requires a different approach. Article 10 of the agreement provides for a limit of 1 5 per cent on the amount of withholding tax which can be imposed by either of the countries on dividends which have a source in that particular country. Australia is required to reduce its withholding tax on dividends from the general rate of 30 per cent to 15 per cent under the agreement and Germany is required to reduce its rate from the general rate, 27.75 per cent, to 15 per cent. However, the requirement for different treatment in this arrangement arises because of the way in which the Federal Republic of Germany taxes company profits. 
Under German law company tax on distributed profits is at a much lower rate than the tax on undistributed profits. The German Government levies a rate of 24.55 per cent on distributed profits and 52.53 per cent on undistributed profits. This system would be open to exploitation if other provisions were not inserted in the agreement. To overcome this problem a special provision has been incorporated in the agreement. As a consequence, the agreement provides that, in the cases where the Australian recipient company has a substantial holding in the company paying the dividend- an interest of 25 per cent or more- the Federal Republic is entitled to charge dividend withholding tax at a rate of 25.75 per cent. The overall effect is that the total tax- distributed profits tax plus withholding tax- amounts to a rate of 43.98 per cent. In the converse situation, total Australian tax of 55.4 per cent is levied. Although the agreement is effective from the 1971-72 income year the recent company tax rate reduction will decrease the variation between the total taxation of both countries. In the case of Germany the agreement will be retrospective to the 197 1 calendar year. 
I have mentioned already that the Opposition supports those Bills. In respect of the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, I move as an amendment on behalf of the Opposition: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'While not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of the opinion that the provisions of the Bill' - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many (a) committees and (b) commissions have been set up and (c) specialist advisers have been appointed by the Government since 5 December 1972, and what are the details in each case. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he take the opportunity to read the transcripts and evidence presented to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices relating to carpet tile prices. 
Did he discover any important point in relation to these industries or prices of which he or his officers were previously unaware. 
Has he found the report and recommendation useful; if so, in what way. 
What action has he taken to implement it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Does he recall making references to the value of providing answers to questions on notice and to the need for answers to be prompt. 
If so, will he now give details of all cases of which he is aware in answer to my question No. 658 which refers to the employment by the Government of unsuccessful Australian Labor Party candidates subsequent to the elections of December 1972 and May 1974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has Australia ratified the Convention on the Political Rights of Women as a positive instrument of ratification with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 
Which other countries have done so. 
) What are the main provisions of the Convention. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he any evidence which would indicate that Australian Army guns have been used by the IRA as weapons. 
Were Fl machine guns manufactured in the Small Arms Factory, Lithgow, captured from suspected IRA personnel in Ireland or Great Britain. 
If so, when, and what were the circumstances. 
Did he, or any other Minister, order security to be tightened in relation to the safeguarding of Australian Service weapons. 
If so, does he regard the security appertaining earlier to be inadequate. 
What losses of Army guns have there been, and what type of guns have been discovered missing in each quarter of the last five years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say in a recent but undated press release, concerning the Commonwealth Railways operations for 1973-74, that he was disappointed with the result which was an overall loss of $7.2m compared with $3.2m during the year 1972-73. 
) What exactly was he disappointed about, bearing in mind the inflation rate. 
Does he regard the working surplus to be a figure that can be arrived at before charging depreciation, superannuation and furlough liability. 
If so, what is the reasoning behind this. 
) Is it a fact that operating companies in Australia would regard such a separation as meaningless. 
Has he examined the possibility of reducing the loss during 1974-75 or 1975-76; if so, what is the result of that examination. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the attitude of the Government with respect to overseas persons or corporations wishing to invest in Australia. 
What are the existing guidelines, and to what extent, specifically, were these guidelines in operation prior to December 1972. 
Is it considered that the present guidelines are specific enough; if not, is any examination being carried out to ensure further or replacement guidelines on overseas investment. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I have no desire to add any further to the debate which took place in the Senate. The Opposition supports the amendments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he and other Ministers sign a statement indicating that Australian dried milk was not contaminated with radioactive material. 
If so, who signed the statement, on what date, and to whom was it addressed. 
Why was it necessary to send such a statement, and what were all the circumstances. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many persons were employed by Australian Government departments and instrumentalities in London as at 30 June 1 974, or a convenient recent date. 
Which departments or instrumentalities employed these persons, and how many unfilled positions are there in each case. 
What was the cost of salaries, wages, and other expenditure for 1973-74. 
What is the similar information for Embassies at (a) Washington and (b) Tokyo, and the New York Consulate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he receive a letter from the Australian-owned Advertising Agencies Council drawing attention to the awarding of the advertising account of the Australian Industries Development Corporation to a foreign-owned agency. 
Does the Government consider that the advertising agencies used by Government departments and instrumentalities should be Australian-owned; if not, why not. 
Does he propose to take any action in respect of this matter; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What proportion of Australia's overseas trade does he propose should be carried in Australian ships. 
To what extent has this already been achieved. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he taken any action arising from the resolution of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development calling on each country to carry at least 40 per cent of its overseas trade in its own ships. 
Does the current oil shortage in the world affect the position; if so, how. 
Does he consider the present wages and conditions of Australian seamen would create difficulties in manning Australian ships economically. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he make a speech in Forrest Place, Perth, in November 1972, during which he undertook, if elected in the then forthcoming elections, to have the Governmentowned Padbury Buildings demolished so that the Forrest Place area could be enhanced and made a central open city area for Perth. 
2 ) If so, what exactly was the promise made. 
How does he propose to give effect to that promise. 
Did he make any reference in his promise to building a Post Office administration building across the north end of Forrest Place. 
Did he mention any quid pro quo for the demolition of the Padbury Buildings which implied a great increase in the open area. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received complaints indicating that the allowance of fees to child care institutions as a concessional deduction is not uniform in the various states. 
What are the criteria involved. 
Will he take up the matter with the Commissioner of Taxation with a view to ensuring consistency and fairness. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What have been the duties each month of  Mr N.  K. Foster, the former Australian Labor Party member for Stun, South Australia 
) What was the date of his appointment. 
What is the amount of his salary and allowances. 
Is he authorised to incur expenditure; if so, of what type and scale. 
Does he have a staff; if so, what are the details and costs. 
Does he have a permanent office or offices; if so, what is the address in each case. 
7 ) How many days has he spent in each of the States to 3 1 July 1974. 
Has he had any holidays, sick days, or other leave; if so, what are the details. 
Is he a permanent public servant, or does he have a contract of service or letter of employment; if so, what are the details. 
What has been the total amount paid to him in respect of salary and allowances from the commencement of his appointment to 3 1 July 1974. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
What was the time occupied by adjournment speeches in each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 and in 1974 to date. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
What was the time occupied by private Members' business in each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973, and in 1974 to date. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he referred recently in his speeches to a guillotine motion moved by a former Government in which 17 Bills were dealt with in 19 hours; if not, what did he say. 
How many of these Bills were agreed to by the then Opposition. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the precise OECD source or sources which were used by him on television in making comparisons between Australia's inflation and other OECD countries in the period immediately prior to the election of 1 8 May 1 974 
I understand the great concern about the Family Law Bill. I have, however, done my best to make some inquiries in relation to it and to read what I could on the subject. I must say in clear language that I do not find much foundation in the objections raised to the Bill. I believe it is most important social legislation and it is right that honourable members should be very concerned with it. It is certainly right that it should receive much attention. Of course, it cannot solve every problem which arises between a man and a woman and their children before, during or after their marriage. But it is necessary for us as members of Parliament to make a judgment on this very complex matter. No doubt during the course of this debate many references will be made to the views of people who have practised in the area of divorce. It will be seen that one person will say one thing and another person will say another. I have consulted a number of such people and I have come to the conclusion that those people who believe that this legislation will be of benefit are right. 
Therefore I support, in the main, the principles contained in this legislation. As I said, I have spoken to people who can claim to be experts. I am aware that there is opposition to the legislation. Some of the people to whom I have spoken confidentially have been judges who have sat in judgment on many divorce cases. I believe that this Bill, if it becomes law, will be a social advance and, in brief, I believe that it will give practical relief to those people whose marriages have already broken down. To summarise: I have said that the Bill is complex. I have said that there is a need for all of us to take advice as to the pros and cons of the legislation and to weigh that advice. And I have said that I am satisfied with the fundamental principles involved. 
I want to refer specifically to the amendment which has been moved and which is before us. I want to say 2 things about it. The first is that I believe that if this amendment is carried it will have the effect, if not of defeating the Bill, then at any rate of putting it in a position in which it cannot be debated in the way suggested. What does the amendment do? It makes certain statements with which, with the exception of the last paragraph to which I will come in a moment, every honourable member in this House could agree. The amendment begins with the words: 'That all words after "That" be omitted'. The words referred to are, of course: 'the Bill be now read a second time'. I know that the amendment goes on to say 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading', but my advice is that notwithstanding the fact that those words are there the amendment has the effect of deferring consideration of the Bill or perhaps defeating it. I am not clear on that point. I suggest that when there has been time to hear more debate on the matter later speakers might make quite clear what the position is. 
I interpose that some time ago I was given a paper on this subject. I regret that time did not allow me to get it in order to quote to honourable members from its content. I think all honourable members have to understand clearly that, because of the wording of the opening phrases of the amendment, in voting for it they may in fact be voting against the Bill or deferring it. But, even if that is so, what does the amendment do? It states certain principles with which, as I said, most people could agree, but not amendments to the Bui. Presumably the amendment is some sort of suggestion to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that he might care later on to move some amendments, or a suggestion that somebody might like to move some amendments, to the Bill and embody the principles outlined in the amendment. It is all rather imprecise. For that reason alone I will not vote for the amendment. 
I have another objection to the amendment. The last paragraph of the amendment reads: 
that marriage should be dissolved only when a Court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than two years. 
I propose to deal with that point in a moment because I believe that the provision in the Bill which requires only one year's separation is adequate. 
Before I deal with that point I want to refer to the position of those people in our community who have deeply held religious beliefs, because I do think that a distinction has to be made. We are talking, surely, about secular marriage. We are talking about what should be the law of the land which will affect all Australians. Many people believe that, except in extremely rare circumstances, a marriage between 2 people can never cease as long as they are both living. Of course, they are completely entitled to hold that view. But there is no established church in Australia. There is no Church of England or Anglican Church established here as there is in Britain. There is no Catholic established church. This is a country in which there is a distinction between what one may believe should be good law- I refer to secular marriage and I am aware of the limitation of that term- and the views of those people who have deeply held religious beliefs, as is their right. I understand those who have those beliefs. I respect them. I even value them but I say that that is not really what we should now be considering. 
I do not want to speak for very long but I want to refer to the 4 major criticisms of the Bill. Perhaps one could say they are those criticisms which are so weighty that if one held them- and I do not- one would have to vote against the Bill rather than concern oneself with amendments. Firstly, there is the question of whether 1 year of separation between the parties is long enough before the end of the marriage. I judge that it is enough because I believe that when separation itself begins the parties have been through such a difficult time between themselves- it is not something they have done capriciously, it is something which no doubt they have agonised over- that at the time they separated in the great majority of cases the marriage was over. Therefore I believe that for one more year to expire is adequate, and making it 2 years adds nothing but hardship. 
A second great criticism is that women would be disadvantaged by the proposed maintenance provisions. I say briefly that I believe that to be fallacious, that the courts will fairly assess the position. A third criticism is that the Bill somehow or other will make divorce easier. I think linked with that is the argument that since it is not necessary under the Bill to prove fault before a marriage can be ended it damages the marriage. I say again that that marriage is over already when it reaches that stage unless the parties have a deeply held religious conviction, which is something people are entitled to have, and which will bind them together as individuals whatever the law says. 
I have recounted those criticisms briefly. I believe they are the main criticisms of the Bill. I do not suggest that this Bill will answer every situation. I do not think it is perfect. Nor is the present law perfect; far from it. I am aware that many of my colleagues will disagree very largely or perhaps entirely with what I am saying. I respect their judgment but this is my weighing up of the choice which we must all make. I conclude by saying that while my experience has certainly not been close to divorce procedures, nevertheless I have seen at some distance, I think, enough of it. I have a deep feeling about present proceedings. We surely must all be aware of the squalid aspects which surround our present system; the excessive legalisms and costs; the considerable perjury in the courts; the provision of even greater opportunities in the present procedures for bitterness, acrimony and even hatred between family members which brings out the worst in people and lasts for years. This Bill, if it becomes law, will not cure all of that by a long way but it will be a help to all those who are affected. It will be a help to all those to have more settled and more satisfying lives. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the existing Table of Precedence. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Government pay the Parmelia Hotel, Perth, for accommodation by all or any of the Russians who stayed there during the course of the Ermolenko affair. 
If so, what was the amount paid. 
How many people were accommodated at the hotel, and who were they. 
How many rooms, and of what type, were paid for, and for how many days. 
Were there other amounts paid in respect of security agents and the like; if so, what were the amounts and other details, including the dates the services were provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that copies of the Trade Practices Act are available from only one Government source in each capital city, at one location and at one price. 
If so, does the Attorney-General propose taking action against himself by this apparent contravention of Part IV, paragraph (2)(a) and sub-section (4) of section 45, paragraphs ( 1 )(a) and (c) and sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 46, and sub-section (2) of section 47 of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the contract to purchase 75 LOH-58A helicopters and for 116 helicopters to be manufactured in Australia renegotiated to a total of 56; if not, what were the details. 
Can he say whether the Bell Helicopter Company recently sold several l hundered such helicopters to Iran. 
What was the original estimated cost of each helicopter over the machines in the original order. 
What is the present estimated cost of each of the reduced number of helicopters. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Why were STD calls recently given the sound of several 'pips' at the commencement. 
What was the cost of making the necessary adjustments, or installing the necessary equipment. 
Where did the demand for this come from. 
What investigation was carried out to determine how many 'pips 'there should be. 
Is it considered that there are too many, and that they interrupt commencement of a conversation unnecessarily. 
If so, why was this not recognised before installation. 
What would be the cost and what is involved in (a) removing the 'pips' altogether and (b) halving the number. 
Does the cost to the subscriber of an STD call commence at the beginning or the end of the 'pips'. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the widespread opposition to the building of the Post Office administration building at the northern end of Forrest Place, Perth, and in view of the proposal to alter the structure of the Postmaster-General's Department, has the Postmaster-General taken any action to modify or abandon the proposal. 
Is it a fact that the proposed building would serve the objectives of centralising administration staffs for only a few years. 
Does the Postmaster-General intend to try to impose this proposal on the people of Perth for the sake of a shortterm administrative gain. 
Would it save money. 
Would another site on which the larger development can take place be preferable in the long term; if not, why not. 
Would the Postmaster-General release details of any analysis that may have been done to support the contention that it is necessary to centralise the proposed building for operational as well as economic reasons. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the Postmaster-General approved of the Post Office endeavouring to have an administration building built across the northern end of Forrest Place, Perth, being a building of some 10 storeys. 
What is the precise position of the department in this matter, and what approvals or recommendations have been made. 
Has an impact study been carried out; if so, by whom, at what cost, and when was it completed. 
What indication does the Post Office have that the land now occupied by the roadway will be made available. 
Does the Government have any right to resume it. 
What proportion of the building is it proposed the public will need regular access to on Post Office business. 
How many additional employees of the Post Office and tenants are expected to occupy the building. 
Could the functions which the building is to house be carried out in an area where decentralisation is favoured or where there is structural unemployment; if not, why not. 
Was any consideration given to this proposition; if so, what was the reasoning behind its rejection. 
10) What proportion of the functions to be carried out could be carried out on another site. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the TAA aircraft which flew into an air pocket near Adelaide recently, did he imply in his statement that passengers had been hurt because their seat belts had not been fastened. 
Did some of the seats come away from their mountings on the floor. 
If so, how were they able to come away from the floor. 
Is he satisfied that the design of the fastenings is adequate: if not, what action has been taken. 
-In speaking to the Australia Council Bill I speak on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  and I am making a statement which adds to the Opposition policy on the arts. He, unfortunately, was not able to be here this evening because, as honourable members well know, his wife was taken ill rather suddenly on Tuesday and is in hospital. The Australia Council should be what it purports to be-a body which, by its membership and the membership of its boards, reflects the aspirations of the Australian people. If one breaks the Australian arts community into its component parts- the practitioners, the teachers, the critics, whether these be professional or just the community at large who appreciate the various art forms, whether it be ballet or craft or theatreit emerges as a very heterogeneous body. I believe that within the ambit of the arts, radio and television should be included because these represent major areas of culture. After all, the Australia Council should be a reflection of the cultural attainment and ambitions of the people. If one accepts T. S. Eliot's definition that culture is in its essence the 'way of life' of people, then what the Council stimulates will permeate every sector of Australian life. 
Broadly, the Opposition will continue to support the principle of public patronage of the arts and we favour the establishment of a statutory body for its administration. I shall not be moving specific amendments, but will be setting guidelines for what we, the Opposition, would do m government. What we want to see in the Council is a body representative of all groups and guaranteed autonomy for its constituent boards. The accent must be on cultural spread and not on creating monuments for one man. We wish to see the Australia Council not as the appendage of one man's fancy but clearly identifiable in an area of government devoted to providing co-operative cultural leadership. It should not be attached to a Minister who has not the time to devote to it as is presently the case. 
The keynote in all cultural aspirations is community participation. Even the Labor Party, at its recent Terrigal conference, recognised the importance of community cultural activities when it inserted a new clause which stated that Labor would ensure that not less than 25 per cent of moneys expended by the statutory body be spent on these activities. This community requires that we take into account the artist and the consumer in any of the functions of the Australia Council. This is reflected in taste and also in the level of community participation which should be pursued. 
We of the Opposition would encourage all who wished to participate in the arts to pursue it to the highest standard to which they are capable- that is, to develop the maximum potential of all who engage in the arts for the maximum benefit of the community. This pursuit of excellence would encourage innovation leading to a variety of styles and practices. We would encourage participation and not cultivate a small group to the exclusion of the community. That is to say that when talking about promoting excellence in the arts, it is not to promote an elite within the artistic community but to ensure that all who wish to can have the opportunity to attain their highest standard. It is then a matter of concern that the present Bill would enable both the Council and the various boards to be set up without a single practitioner of the arts among their members. Loose terms like 'associated with the arts' which recur in the Bill when referring to the membership of the Council and the Boards, do little to allay the suspicion repeatedly voiced by members of the artistic community and others that dilettantes may govern the distribution of subsidy. 
The words 'associated with the arts' could mean any parvenu; anyone with the merest association. Would we want the Council and the boards turned into a vehicle of political patronage? A loose term like 'associated with the arts' to designate the qualifications for membership does this. Let us unequivocally state that we would ensure that membership, especially of the boards which are working primarily in specific technical aspects, guarantees those 'working' in the field. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  even in his second reading speech given so long ago, mentioned the qualification in terms of artists or those 'closely involved' in the arts. Such people would have majority membership on the boards. 
It is just too stereotyped to believe that the artistic community cannot run its own affairs and to enshrine that proposition in the legislation is completely wrong and underestimates the artistic community. One has only to see the various performing groups in the community to see that they may often work in hardship on very tight budgets and yet provide their artistic product at low cost. The problem has been that blockbuster purchases like 'Blue Poles' and 'Woman V, and blockbuster subsidies of monolithic groups, tend to distort the whole meaning and thrust of what an arts department should be doing. In fact, art not only must be represented by massive expenditure but also it should reflect essential, democratic government policy through its expert bodies to give a lead in providing the Australian public with a stimulating variety of the performing and other arts suited to all tastes. 
I believe that the boards should have guaranteed autonomy. This will ensure diversity and guard against the Council interfering in the minutiae of decision-making processes for which experts are best equipped. We should further note that people presently working on the boards, dispensing vast amounts of public money, are often denied information basic to assessing the need for subsidy of this or that organisation. The secrecy that pervades the operation of the Council has met with widespread criticism. This Government, after all, is the government which promised open access and yet it is so emasculated that it allows its own appointees to be deprived of details such as salary structures, rents, performing fees etc., when determining funding needs. That practice is entirely unsatisfactory and can only exacerbate the distrust evidenced by the resignations of several members of the Council and the boards; members appointed, it is sometimes alleged, by the Prime Minister himself. 
Any funding organisation inadequately served with information must necessarily fall prey to the knowledgeable whim of its bureaucracy. The community must not have pressed upon it decisions made by people deprived of vital information. This legislation does nothing to ensure more sensible procedures. Whilst we support the rotation of board and Council membership, we must be continually aware that a permanent bureaucracy will, in such a situation, have more assertive power than should be the case. In these circumstances, everything possible must be done to maximise the decision-making powers of the boards and the Council and the position of administrative figures should be that of enablers, and implementers of democratically arrived at decisions. In these terms, the Opposition strongly advocates that the board chairmen should be elected from and by board members. The present legislation casually fails to mention that these people are to be appointed by the Minister. It does detail, however, and at great length, how acting chairmen shall be appointed and makes it quite clear that this shall be a ministerial prerogative. We believe that the legislation, board autonomy and the free flow of information among members would be greatly enhanced by ensuring that the chairmen are elected. On the boards, the artists must be represented- they must not' have their decisions given to them cut and dried by people selected from above. Our suggestion will inculcate more sense into the role of the chairmen. Elected, they will have to be responsive to the desires and decisions of their constituents and they should have no more right of access to information, no more right to initiate or promulgate policy, than any other board member. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was making some comments on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition about the Australian Council Bill. I was extending those comments to include some of the Opposition's policy in relation to the arts. I had said that the Opposition's view as to the election of chairmen would impart more sense to the role of chairmen. Elected, they would have to be more responsive to the desires and decisions of their constituents. They should have no more right of access to information and no more right to initiate or promulgate policy than any other Board member. Their job is to see that meetings are run fairly, that debate is encouraged, that the public is kept informed as to policy formation and that the administration implements these policies speedily and efficiently. Our Prime Minister, if he has time to bother himself with the artistic community, will know by now that his, if they are his, selections of Board chairmen have not in all cases indicated any particular perspicacity on his or his advisers' part. 
Along with a defined degree of Board autonomy- the right to dispense funds within the limits of their own budgets, the right to appoint their own secretariats and to implement policy in their own area- we want to see a Council better equipped to handle the generalities of policy. Both former and present members of the Council have said that its efficiency has suffered, that its ability to deal meaningfully with weighty issues before it is severely compromised by its sheer size. The legislation in clause 9(1) provides for membership of between 18 and 24 persons. We believe that 18, including the  Chairman,  should be the upper figure. The Council would consist then of the 7 elected Board chairmen and the  Chairman  of the Council. We see no reason for permanent heads of government departments to be voting members. Their expert advice can always be sought; their departments are always available. We see the Public Service role in this area as advisory- informing but not making decisions. 
What kind of Council do we want? What kind of Council would be best for Australia? We want an organisation that has a strong co-ordinating role, an organisation that is free to develop an overall arts policy, an organisation that represents the interests of artists via the democratically elected chairmen and, at the same time, an organisation that has the administrative ability to handle properly its dealings with the boards and negotiate with the States. The House will realise that companies and individuals, the existing Council and various State Government departments working in the same funding area have problems of liaison. There is not a regularised forum where all these responsible people can get together and determine the major budgetary and policy decisions which concern them and all our governments. We propose, therefore, that the Council, as previously described, should be augmented by inviting the Directors of the Arts from each State to sit as voting members on the Australia Council. We want efficiency, we want co-operation with the States and we want strong rapport with the artistic community. This would still allow the Minister to invite 4 other members of specialist ability to join the Council should the Council so wish. 
It has previously been noted that the Labor Party at its Terrigal Conference resolved that 25 per cent of monies allocated to the Council be earmarked for community arts activities.  Senator Rae,  the Opposition shadow Minister for Community Development, drew attention to our interest in fostering such activity in his statement on 16 September last. I have later pointed out that less than 5 per cent of ACA funds have been directed to community arts by the Whitlam Government- a so-called populist crew which rows its fiscal boat to the already well-endowed shores of those few cultural monoliths who have for years fed well on the subsidy cake. To spread available funds widely through the community seems now to be a shared aim of both the Government and the Opposition. A basic requisite then is close consultation with the State directors since these are the people closest in touch with regional local groups. We reject totally the notion that the Council should consist of intinerant and possibly ignorant friends of whatever government happens to be in power. 
All parties want our culture peserved and developed. We wish to see diversity of the culture maintained. We wish to see Aboriginal cultural efforts expanded without destroying the intrinsic requirements and tenets of that culture. Within the framework of the Australia Council there should be provision for mobility so that people, whether artists or consumers, are able to travel and broaden their perspective both domestically and internationally. All parties want it to grow in depth and breadth, and our proposal will provide the nation with a council attuned to the problems of the people and the artisan will so enable our traditions and our artistic inventiveness to proliferate and thrive among us all. However, let me issue a caveat on expenditure in this area, especially as it has been surrounded by so much controversy. I believe the annual report should be tabled at the same time as the Auditor-General's report. To provide for this would be a notable concession to open government. 
In conclusion, the importance of diversity of opinion, decentralisation of responsibility with consequent autonomy of the Board has been grossly understated in this Bill. The Bill does not achieve this. We in government would modify it so that this would occur. 
-Earlier in the evening the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  was at some pains to try to convince the House that the Opposition had had ample time to consider this matter. He went so far as to exaggerate in saying the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had referred to the need for such legislation as far back as December 1972. That of course was not the issue and it still is not the issue. 
This Bill was first made available to the public and to the Opposition in December 1974- not very long ago. At the time the then AttorneyGeneral invited many people to make representations to the Government and to examine the matter. After all, many people have expert knowledge in the field and it is only right that they should be able to comment on these extremely complex provisions. Those representations and the detailed analysis have become known to the Opposition to any extent only in the last few days. Not only that, but this AttorneyGeneral's reaction to those suggestions was still not known until, at 5 o'clock this afternoon, we received a copy of a few amendments that he apparently proposes to move tonight. And he has the audacity to stand there and to make the misleading statement that there has been plenty of knowledge that this law was necessary, that we knew what should be put to the Parliament and we had adequate time to examine the proposed legislation. I give the lie to those assertions. The Attorney-General may smile if he wishes as he sits at the table. He knows the truth of what I am saying. I put it to him that he grossly misrepresented the Opposition's position to this House this afternoon and this evening. What is more, I have no doubt that when his time to speak comes he will misrepresent the situation all over again. 
The Government proposes to move some amendments. This Bill is complex. I challenge anyone on the Government side to deny that it is complex. Of course the effect of those amendments cannot be judged this evening. This Bill is to be disposed of- if we believe the threat of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)-  by 10 p.m., which is in an hour's time. There simply is not time to go into all the provisions. The Opposition and, I suppose, almost everybody - 
-That is what I am told is the position. He interjected to that effect. 
-Yes. The Opposition has asserted through the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  and will have to go on asserting no matter how much it is misrepresented by Government supporters, that it believes there is a need for legislation in this area. As far as I know everybody asserts that. That is really not in question. What is in question is what is in this proposed legislation and whether the provisions in it are proper and fair and will they achieve the objectives that we would all like to achieve. I say deliberately that I believe this is a bad Bill. It is a new low point of what a statute should be. It sets out to provide a structure of government by regulation which we have not seen before. The advisers may smile if they wish, but that is the truth of the matter. We have not seen those regulations. In many aspects what the Bill intends is not really clear. I refer to the small amount of time we have had to look at the details. Hundreds of suggestions for amendments have been made- literally hundreds. For those reasons I say it is a bad Bill. 
Government supporters, if they wish, may say that we are against the idea of such legislation, but if so they say it knowing that they are deliberately misrepresenting us. The fact is that the Commission to be set up by this legislation would have enormous powers and in many areas no appeal or review of decisions is to be possible. Indeed, the Commission, because it will be sponsoring the regulations, will be the writer of" the new laws, the prosecutor and the jury. The Bill also refers to the National Companies Act. Where is that? We do not know what its provisions are. We do not know whether we can say that is a good thing that the National Companies Act should be involved. In other places the Bill refers to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to be set up by Act. Where is that Bill? It is not here. We do not know whether that will be a satisfactory system of appeal. 
I refer to clause 284. The regulatory power there is very much wider than is usual. The Commission will be capable of making very strong demands without giving a reason and without appeal. If anything will damage business confidence this is it. The Government is going through the fashion at the moment of saying that we must build up business confidence. I can tell the Government this: In my experience in business activity, business confidence is very largely based on knowing what is going to happen in the future- on certainty. That is really what it is all about. 
Many questions arise from this Bill. For those present I shall wave it around to show how thick it is. It has nearly 300 clauses. I shall mention just briefly some of the provisions. The Bill provides the power for prospectuses to be reviewed, to be investigated before issue. It provides no time limit on that investigation. What is a company to do, when the investment and finance climate can change so quickly, if it is held up for an unreasonable time? Then, apparently, when the prospectus has been issued, it can be recalled. There is no time limit on this provision. How is one to recall the prospectus if shares in the meantime have been issued? They cannot be taken back again. It may be argued that that is not intended. If it is not intended, for God's sake state that clearly in the Bill. At the moment it is very uncertain. There is a good deal of legal opinion in the financial world at the moment to support that assertion. If a prospectus is to be recalled on what date is it to be effective? One could choose several dates. Why is it not spelled out in the Bill? 
What is to happen to the inter-company market, the so-called unofficial money market, operating in Australia? It would appear- again there is legal opinion on this-that it will be necessary to have a prospectus. The official money market transactions are to be exempt. Are the unofficial inter-company short term loans to be exempt. That is not stated. Perhaps that is of no interest to the Government and its backbench supporters but it is of interest to an important part of the financial world which is engaged directly in the productive capacity of Australiathe people who actually earn money and make things rather than those who spend money and buy things. If that assumption is correct the Bill could well mean the end of that system. If that is the intention, let the Government say so. 
I turn now to the strange provision about attendance by a representative of the Commission at meetings of the stock exchange committee. I do not know anyone who would want to object greatly to that provision though it does strike me as being rather an odd situation if the committee were engaged in some sort of decision making about legal action against the Commission. But more importantly the Bill provides for attendance of a Commission representative at company directors' meetings. As the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said, that will result in real decisions being made elsewhere and being ratified at formal meetings. I am interested in that aspect which arises in clause 267. One wonders whether it is envisaged that attendance at directors' meetings will be regular or irregular, whether the Commission will take a judicious view of things and what its attitude will be. I can well imagine that if the Government chooses to appoint zealots to the office of Chairman or as members of the Commission they could deliberately harass and damage confidence and interfere with the decision making process to an extent far outside the purpose of what generally would be accepted as an objective of this Bill. 
Let us have that spelled out. What exactly is the power of the representatives and what is their purpose in being at the meetings? At this stage this must surely be noted as a pretty wild provision. I must emphasise in passing that the present Labor Government has never really understood what business confidence is about. I believe- this is very important- that it is the Government's belief that it can do anything to business in any measure and it will not disrupt the productive capacity of this country though that is our real wealth and we all live on it. It can do anything to damage that by legislation and other acts and it will still go on in the same way. 
I agree. The fact is that after 2 years of government what Government supporters are discovering is that business confidence and production can be badly damaged by acts like this. Unclear proposed laws do a lot towards damaging that confidence. These are measures which need examination- they have not yet been given it- by this House and by the Government. They need justification, and without that justification we, as members of this House, are entitled to object. That is not obstructionism. It is our duty to examine proposed legislation and if we do not agree with it to say so and why. The Government has provided a matter of a few hours for debate on this most complex piece of legislation. It tries to say we have had plenty of time. No doubt it will move the gag. I will be interested to see whether the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin),  who is seeking to interject, is prepared to vote with the Opposition if the gag is moved. We say we are entitled to time to debate this legislation. Hundreds of questions have been raised by others. I have raised a few tonight. I look forward to answers, but I am not confident of getting them. 
I think what we will hear from the Attorney-General who interjects, though I cannot hear him, will be a 100 per cent party political reply. This was what we got when he spoke for 10 minutes earlier this evening. He does not understand the provisions of this Bill and actually he does not want to understand them. He does not want to put time into understanding them. He wants to take a party political approach. What he said earlier most likely will be what he will say at Press conferences and later this evening unless I can jolly him out of it. He will say that the opponents of this Bill have made millions from the Stock Exchange. Apart from the fact that that is the highly hysterical statement he made earlier this evening I want to tell him one small point that may have escaped his attention: Most people involved in Stock Exchange activities in the last few years have not gained millions of profits but have made substantial losses. There are reasons for that situation that we can understand if we understand how a free market operates. This Bill, and any Bill like it, will not take away that excessive optimism and pessimism which come from time to time and create fluctuations in a free market. 
I put to the Attorney-General the question: Are we to have a free market? That really is the question to answer. What he has shown so farlet us hope he improves- is a poverty of knowledge about how finance, and the Stock Exchange in particular, work in this country. Because of his lack of interest he has shown that he does not have a real commitment to the public interest but only to his Party's interest. The Bill goes much further than almost anybody anticipated. I believe it true to say that that is fairly common criticism that one can make of pieces of legislation proposed by this Government. The Government often has gone too far. Its legislation often has been shown to have many flaws. I instance the trade practices legislation which required more than 100 amendments. The Government's legislation goes too far and is over-simplified. Much of its legislation has come to grief for that reason. The Government oversimplifies because it does not recognise how complex life really is. It is always looking for the glib solution. It always wants its legislation put into effect by next Tuesday morning at 9 o 'clock. 
This Bill contains whole pages of a rehash of State companies Acts. Questions of powers are involved, whether the 'Financial Review' or the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  like it or not. I question the value of having pages of rehash in this Bill because we have been promised a national companies Act. I do not argue whether it is good or bad to have a national companies Act- I am personally rather attracted to the notion- but if we are to have such an Act why do we require such provisions in this Bill? We have not been told and their inclusion does not seem to advance the situation any further. I do not suggest the provisions are any harsher; they have just been picked up. It seems to me, therefore, that the legislation is in a rather funny form. It is incomplete for a national companies Act yet provisions up to a point are included in this Bill. This is an aspect that also needs close examination because if this Bill is passed that is the situation that will obtain. 
The honourable member for Hawker and I and no doubt other speakers on this subject have given much attention to talking about the offences and crimes of various rogues involved in Stock Exchange activities and on the periphery. Nobody defends those persons. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange was established by a former government. Its  Chairman  was  Senator Rae  who, of course, is a Liberal. We do not defend the rogues for one moment. If they are guilty of misdemeanours or crimes they should be gaoled. I am glad that the honourable member for Macarthur, by his smile, agrees with me. However, there has been considerable concentration on this aspect. I think that the danger is that people will feel that all that is involved in this legislation is related to crimes and offences, but that is not so. What is involved is having a Stock Exchange- a finance system- which allows us to get the great benefits from it without allowing people to be able to manoeuvre themselves into positions of getting great sums for very little work. Let us not get too carried away with our consideration of offences and crimes because one thing must be perfectly obvious to everyone and that is that the stock market is not in the same position today as it was in 1970. We are really dealing with a different situation. My plea in these few remarks is: Let us not in legislation in this Parliament ruin the financial system and the availability of capital and the facility of being able to get that capital quickly into trade and securities for the sake of trying to meet a situation which has never occurred to that extent before and probably will not happen for some time. Let us have a system that prevents excesses if such is possible and let us have a Bill that we can examine clause by clause. Let those few of us here who are interested in this matter have confidence in what we are passing because, party political warfare aside, this must be our common objective. 
The honourable member for Hawker made a jibe- I suppose it is fair enough- about reform and said that the Opposition is in favour of reform so long as it changes nothing. However one can turn that comment around and say that his attitude is that reform is necessary to change everything. He believes that change itself is improvement. According to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  his Ministers and supporters, change equals reform. That, of course, is absurd. The honourable member for Hawker took one small example out of the operations of the New York Stock Exchange but I point out that the United States Stock Exchange system is very different from that proposed by this Bill. The Government's policies in so many directions, and I believe in this direction, have been shown to be impractical, ill-considered and wasteful. The Government often has been forced to cease them or modify them because reality does have a way of asserting itself. 
This Bill gives tremendous powers, which it should not do, to enforce law by regulation. We do not know what that is to be. There has been reference to two other Bills- the National Companies Bill and the Administration Appeal Tribunal Bill- which we have not even seen. This Bill shows, as we have seen, that in so many fields the Government has learned nothing and, worse, it does not want to know. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Have the contracts or details of contracts or arrangements between the Australian Wheat Board and China concerning wheat sold, or to be sold, since 1 January 1973 been made public. 
If information has been released, what was it, and, if voluminous, where can it be obtained. 
In announcing some time ago the wheat that would be sold to China over a number of years, was the supply of wheat to be given priority over sales to other countries. 
Was the price fixed or is it negotiable in future. 
What is the list of the main contractual relationship embodied in his announcement that 4:7 million tons would be sold to China. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there an inter-departmental committee which assists or otherwise concerns itself with international conventions held in Australia. 
) If so, who are the members of it. 
-Clause 3 of the Bill contains a number of definitions and I would like the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  to explain if he would, one or two points in relation to them. The definition of 'business rules' is of interest and I wonder whether it includes listing requirements. The definition of 'current liability', of course, is understandable, but, as far as I can see, nowhere in the Bill is there a definition of 'current assets' although it is referred to in clause 129. Elsewhere there is a definition of non-current liability' but not of 'current assets'. I would have thought that 'current assets' needed defining because the character of the assets is an important aspect. The definition of debenture' includes the words 'or acknowledging indebtedness'. One wonders whether that includes a bill of exchange or perhaps a cheque because if it does obviously it will inhibit a lot of transactions which at present are regarded as legitimate transactions. 
Those definitions are important, as is that of prescribed corporation'. I think this has given rise to some representations to the Minister but these are not covered in the proposed amendments. It is not really understood by me and by others why significant parts of the legislation apply to prescribed corporations whereas the intention of the legislation which has been stated is that it is to regulate the activities of registered corporations. It may well be that there are cases where certain provisions of the legislation apply to companies other than registered corporations but, if that is so, surely they should be singled out for special treatment. Is it intended that clause 83 ( 1 ) of the Bill should require holders of licences and financial journalists to maintain registers of interest in securities of prescribed corporations, including private companies? This is a matter of definition and is of considerable significance. I believe it goes to the root of the whole legislation and requires urgent consideration. Therefore, to make the Bill more understandable to those who are affected by it, it seems sensible to use the words 'registered corporation' throughout the Bill in place of the words 'prescribed corporation' except in cases where there is a clear necessity to have wider coverage. 
The other question that arises- I think it was alluded to by some honourable members during the second reading debate on this Bill- is whether the definition of 'prescribed corporation' includes mining companies. It would appear that a major objective of this Bill would be to have an effect on mining companies. During the second reading debate on this Bill certain Government supporters rather emphasised practices in respect of mining companies of which they disapprove. I would be interested to know what the Attorney-General has in mind in that area as well. 
-I put aside the continued complaints of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  about the Opposition's questioning of this Bill, except to say that surely we made it clear in the second reading debate, if anything was made clear, that we think that many of these clauses require far more explanation and justification. We are entitled to ask questions. We propose to do so. I might say- this should be of interest to honourable membersthat it is high time the House of Representatives took on the job instead of leaving it all to the Senate. 
I do not want to spend my full time every time I rise, but let me come back to the 3 points which. I made before and which the Attorney-General did not answer. Does the definition of 'business rules' include listing requirements? Will he consider putting in a definition of 'current asset' as there is one there already for 'current hability' and for 'non-current liability'? In respect of prescribed corporations he responded to some of the questions asked, but I draw his attention to the matter which I mentioned first. Why do significant parts of the legislation apply to prescribed corporations, whereas the clear intention of the Bill- one can quote the AttorneyGeneral's speech against him here- is to regulate the activities of registered corporations? What is the need to cover private companies as well? Lastly- this is the point my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  raised- can we not have a definition of 'public company' as referred to in clause 45 in the definition? 
-The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  mentioned earlier the subject of whether this Bill should be dealt with clause by clause. I want to point out that in my last contribution to the debate I asked 4 questions of him and he has not answered them. Presumably the Attorney-General is not going to be in a good position to answer the next question I am about to ask either because he is not listening to me. The Attorney-General did have some sort of a reputation around this building as a lawyer. I hope that it will survive this debate. The fact of the matter is that the amendments which are to be proposed by the Attorney-General- there is not one in relation to the clauses before the Committee at present-are the result of further consideration and consultation. It is because those proposed amendments do not clarify the situation I am looking particularly at clause 10 and making some reference to clause 12- that it is necessary for me to try to elucidate answers to my questions. It is making something of a mockery of the proceedings for the Attorney-General to continue to talk to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and not to listen to the question which I wish to direct to him. Clauses 10 and 12 of the Bill require offers of invitations to make deposits with or lend money to a company to be covered by a registered prospectus. I nave been advised that there is a considerable body of opinion that the traditional activities of the merchant banks and the industrial and financial corporations in the inter-company market generally could be impeded by this requirement. I ask the AttorneyGeneral to comment on that matter. I presume that that sort of impeding is not an objective of the Government or of this Bill because, of course, if it were it would affect a significant part of the Australian capital market. 
I was referring principally to clause 10 and making a slight reference to clause 12. Perhaps I should repeat what I have said; it is not long. Clauses 10 and 12 of the Bill require an offer or invitation to make deposits with or lend money to a company to be covered by a registered prospectus. I have been advised that there is a body or opinion that the traditional activities of the merchant banks and the industrial and financial corporations in the inter-company market generally could well be impeded by this requirement. I have said that I presume that that is not an objective or policy of the Government and that that is not an objective or intention of this Bill and that if it were so it would affect a very significant part of the Australian capital market. I ask the Attorney-General to consider clarifying this situation by amending the Bill. 
-The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  has invited me to read the Bill. I have read it. I am wondering whether I can say the same for him. He has seemed to imply- this is relevant to the consideration of these clauses- that we should not ask him questions and examine him upon the Bill. He has a misunderstanding of the whole purpose of this debate and, I would say, a significant part of the role and activities of the House of Representatives. I direct the Attorney-General's attention to the provisions of clause 14 and, in particular, of sub-clause (f). Clause 14 is intended to define associated persons. If I can just take the pertinent extracts from the clause, it reads: 
For the purposes of this Act ... the following persons are associated with a person - 
f) any director or employee of - 
any corporation of which the person is a director or employee; or 
any corporation that is related to that corporation. 
In other words an associated person can be one 's fellow employees. Surely that is an excessive definition. I can understand why an attempt has been made to try to cast the.net as wide as possible, but there are just too many people defined as associated persons under this clause. I suppose that I am picking the example which is the widest to illustrate the point, but the clause is very wide indeed. Presumably it excludes one's friends who. are not otherwise relatives but includes one's fellow employees. In a large company of thousands of employees that is really saying quite a lot. Presumably it applies also to large government departments. As we know more and more people are becoming members of government departments. Presumably they are all in association with one another under the provisions of this clause. I cannot see, although I would like the Attorney-General's comment on it, how there can be any doubt that clause 1 1 applies to this one. So it would seem to have pretty wide ramifications. I invite the Attorney-General to discuss what is the intention and to state whether those ramifications are intended to be that wide. 
-I want also to take up briefly the suggestion of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I have 3 analyses of this Bill including an analysis of this clause and I have discounted most of the suggestions made in them. But I think some have value and are worth being put to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I think in relation to this clause he is addressing himself to the questions as is proper and I commend him for that. For the honourable member for Adelaide to suggest that we should just jam the Bill through without examination and justification is really letting the cat out of the bag as far as the Government is concerned. We all heard the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  say a while ago: 'You have had it for 90 days'. We have not had it for 90 days because the AttorneyGeneral 's amendments to the many questions that I have raised were given only yesterday afternoon. It was only then we knew that he did not propose to change anything in clause 20 or indeed the other clauses on which we take issue. So I think that it is fair to put that on the record. It is not a question of delaying the legislation. Damn it all, what is a day or two in a matter involving a Bill of this scope and considering the delay there has been? 
I go back to some of the comments the Attorney-General has just made. What he said perhaps has some validity, but at the beginning of clause 20 (2) it states: 
It is the duty of the Commission - 
That wording tells the Commission what to do. It is not, as he implied, a sort of outline or a bit of encouragement to the Commission to look up this clause to see what it should be attending to. It says: 'It is your duty to do these following things' not 'if you feel like it'. 
Let me continue because the Attorney-General will have the right of reply if he wishes to exercise it. The clause, having stated that it is the duty of the Commission, uses certain words. I point out here that the AttorneyGeneral's first line of defence, if I might say so, was that we should not take these words too seriously. 
-The Attorney-General said that they appear in the Rae Committee report and after all this was only an indication to the 
Commission what to do. I have already pointed out that it is charged with duties which include: 
develop and facilitate the opportunities for persons to participate in the ownership and control of Australian industry by means of collective investment schemes and improve the performance and efficiency of such schemes. 
Develop' is a word which conjures up in some minds a fear of action by this Government. The Attorney-General may say, as he has done, that that is not the intention of the Government but if this Bill is passed it will be the law whatever his intention and it will become a question of what will be the real objectives of the Government. I can assure the Attorney-General that some members of the Opposition have great and grave doubts about that. In paragraph (g) the word promote' appears. It is the duty of the Commission to: 
promote the establishment of a national stock market. 
How is one to regard that provision when the first objective in the Labor Party's platform calls for the nationalisation of large sectors of Australian industry? The Attorney-General can smile but he knows that is the objective. He knows that it refers to banking and to finance. We have been through this aspect about 1000 times and it cannot be denied. The AttorneyGeneral says that 'promote' in this sense really means encourage. That is one meaning of the word, but it has another meaning which is equivalent to the words 'set up'. We are fearful of that meaning and it is not enough for the Attorney-General to say he does not believe in that meaning because, as he knows- I say this with respect- his assurances as recorded in Hansard are not law. What is passed in this Bill becomes the law. I accept the Attorney-General's assurances without doubt but I say that they are inoperative and do not have any effect. 
I suggest that this provision should be looked at. If the introductory words were 'The Commission ought to have these matters in mind' I still would not be happy, but it would be a deal weaker than saying 'It is the duty of the Commission'. I assure the Attorney-General that the Opposition is concerned about this aspect. He talked about its being a statement of intent as though, somehow, that was of less importance. He said that if the Commission went beyond the powers, that  would be  ultra vires. I do not think he said it, but obviously that would be subject to challenge and this is exactly what we are concerned about- the powers being given to the Commission. We are not presupposing that it will be ultra vires; we are concerned with whether its powers are too wide and will be used by the Commission, with the Government's support, to make incursions that are unjustified but are in accordance with the socialist objective. This is a matter of very clear concern. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  is making noises of disbelief. He is entitled to do so, but I assert that there is much fear in the Opposition that that is the true intention. There is a lot of fear in the Opposition and a lot of fear out in the community. What we are considering in this and many other clauses is not that there should be some power but where the limit of that power should be. We want to see a clearly defined limit. It is not good enough to say that these words were included in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- the Rae Committee. After all it made recommendations in non-legal language. This clause should be amended and made clear. We ask that this Bill and other Bills that the Attorney-General brings forward be clear so that people know what is the law and what is the intention. There should be no doubts about that. 
-I refer to clause 45. When we were discussing the definitions earlier I referred to the need for a definition of what is a public company. That does not appear in the definitions in clause 3 and, as far as I can see, it does not appear anywhere in the relevant Part. I presume that it is not in the Bill. There would seem to me to be a need, considering the importance of the matter, for a definition of the words 'public companies'. It may be that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will say that the words 'public companies' are defined in some State legislation. I think that he has said that in respect of this or another matter. One wonders then what would be the position if the States concerned decided to change their definitions, which, of course, they are using for other purposes. 
-Yes. If I may say so I also raised questions about the definition of 'current assets' and other matters but did not get a reply. However, that debate is over, I suppose. I turn to sub-clause (2) of clause 45. We are, of course, dealing with the registration of corporations. Sub-clause (2) states that this Part does not apply to a public statutory corporation. Why not? Why should a public statutory corporation get that sort of benefit? Why should the Australian Industry Development Corporation not have to report, particularly- I say this deliberatelywhen one takes into consideration the prospectus that was issued, which I believe was a disgrace because of the paucity of information in it? I very much doubt whether any State companies office or, indeed, the office concerned in the Australian Capital Territory would have accepted it if it had not been put forward by a public corporation. One would have thought that there was a strong argument in favour of requiring public statutory corporations to disclose the sort of information that is sought elsewhere. Why should they be placed in some exclusive position? Of course, we all know how difficult it is to get any information about the activities of the AIDC. I am thinking of that body in particular, but, of course, there are others and in view of the way in which the Government is going, there will be a lot more. I think that that provision ought to be deleted. It is perhaps typical of provisions of this kind- put forward, I might add, by governments of all colours- that these sorts of exemptions are made. I do not agree with them being made. I would like the Attorney-General to reply to those 2 comments in particular. 
-I wish to take up the point that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has made. I put to him the view that that is not a good principle, State rights or otherwise. I have referred, perhaps somewhat bluntly to a particular instance which I think proves my case, that is, the prospectus of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. If that is not enough evidence, I do not know what is. I ask for that matter to be looked at because we have now been told that this Bill will go to the Senate and apparently will then come back to this chamber, although I do not know how long it will be here on that occasion. I take up the AttorneyGeneral's other point about the words 'public company' being defined in clause 7. 1 referred to a second aspect, namely, what happens when the law in those States is at variance or is changed. It is, after all, a law which exists for somewhat other purposes. I am not pressing the point particularly strongly, but I put it to the AttorneyGeneral that a definition of the words 'public company' would seem to me to be prima facie highly desirable. 
-I wish to raise a small point. Clause 48 (3) states: 
Where a registered corporation lodges a report or other document with the Commission under this section, the corporation shall forthwith send a copy of the report or document to every registered stock exchange that permits shares in the corporation to be traded on the stock market maintained or provided by the stock exchange. 
It seems that this sub-clause ought to contain the words 'shares and debentures', or substitute those words for the word 'securities'. I suppose it is a small matter in that only one word is involved. But the fact of the matter is that if this part of the clause is to have the desired effect, surely companies that just have debentures listed, quoted and registered ought to be included in it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 49 to 5 1- by leave- taken together. 
I am concerned with clause 51(1). There seem to be some doubts expressed in stock exchange circles as to whether or not some types of corporations fall within the categories laid down in clause 45. Really, I suppose, what falls within the area and what does not can be determined only by the courts. Yet, it is incumbent on the stock exchange to determine that and to take action. It seems that it is an obligation which is impossible for them to fulfil. I put that to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  for comment. I can well understand that he would want the stock exchange to do some policing and to put obligations on its members. But I think he will equally agree, particularly as the penalty in the legislation is $ 1 ,000 a day, that the legislation should be certain- I would suggest more certain than it is here- as to exactly what it is they are to do. 
-I have had representations made to me in respect of clause 54. 1 am advised that the intention of this clause is to prevent a corporation from operating a stock exchange and permitting trading in securities on a stock exchange unless the corporation is a registered stock exchange. In its present form the relevant sub-clause might appear to prevent the management of a unit trust or a mutual fund offering for sale or re-purchase units or shares in such trusts or funds. The definition clauses- and I have heard the definition for stock markets, securities and unit- might well lead to the conclusion that the sale and purchase of unit trusts and mutual fund shares can take place only at a registered stock exchange. 
If that is correct and the proposed legislation does not envisage this restriction on the operation of unit trusts and mutual funds, then there could be a need for an appropriate exemption to be granted under clause 54. By a wider and perhaps not unreasonable extension of these definitions one might also conclude that any place of business which regularly displays prospectusesfor instance, a bank, a hire purchase company, a stock broker's office- could constitute a stock market and have to be registered as such. That last part perhaps sounds far-fetched. Nevertheless it is an extension of the earlier argument I made and I ask for clarification. 
I come back to the point that was being made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  on the use of the word 'desirable' in clause 59 ( 1 ). I submit to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that he really did not answer that criticism adequately. It is of no use talking about the Government having fine people with rapport because we have had too much experience in the last 2 years of where that has led us, though I certainly agree with him that it is tremendously important to choose the right people. Indeed, I referred to that in my speech in the second reading debate. In view of the assurances the Attorney-General has given us about that, if not the history of his administration as Minister for 
Manufacturing Industry, I hope he makes the appointments and not the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It is not really enough to say that a satisfactory compromise has been made. He is not even listening to me, so what is the use of talking? 
I am glad to hear the assurance of the honourable member for Wakefield. It is not really enough to say that we cannot provide for every situation. The Bill contains words which are so wide that they could mean anything. If we say, 'A commissioner, after making inquiries and investigations, is of the opinion that it is desirable', we are opening up the door fully, we are not inhibiting anybody one little bit. We are not laying down any criteria to say where people should be limited. We are saying whatever they want to do they may do. It really would not result in hundreds of additional clauses. It would result in only about half a page, I would suggest, to inhibit these activities to some degree. 
I said in relation to earlier clauses, and it is equally applicable to these clauses, that the whole question of the limit of power is involved in the debate on the clauses of this Bill. It is not enough to say, as has been said several times by speakers on the other side of the chamber: 'We need a body, therefore let us set up a body and give it all the power it needs to deal with what it thinks fit'. 
I am just trying to explain to the honourable member if he will follow my argument a little more closely. 
It is, but it is not on the subject I am discussing. What I am trying to explain is that it is the duty of this Committee and this Parliament to set limits on the power that it delegates. That is its duty. It is a proper thing for us to consider it. It is not a justification of the clause for the Minister to say: 'We have to make the powers wide because we do not know how to inhibit actions properly and anyway, the fellows who are to be appointed will be jolly good fellows and we can trust them'. That really is not a good enough defence. That is in paraphrase what he told us. I emphasise the argument that was put earlier and say that some criteria should be set down to state what is desirable so that this power is restricted to some extent. 
-This clause touches on an important matter. I am sorry to repeat myself but it is necessary as a result of what the Attorney-General said. 
-Yes. In the first place, I thought it rather interesting that the AttorneyGeneral seemed to assume- I think he said it twice- that the passing of this proposed legislation will improve public confidence in the stock market. With respect, that remains to be seen. It is a brave man, I think who starts to predict whether or not the market is going to improve. I make that point in passing because we really are looking into the crystal ball in that area. I hope that is not indicative of comments on other clauses. In the Attorney-General's remarks, he directed himself to a criticism of the establishment of a commission. He attempted to justify the existence of such a commission. That is not in dispute. I agree with all the objectives he said were desirable; they are desirable. It is desirable to inhibit the Commission, to provide powers, and so on. But that is not the point. The point is whether or not the power to be given to the Commission is too wide. I return to the words 'It is desirable'. It is a limitless power. All the Opposition is seeking is an inhibition of that power, the insertion of some criteria into the Bill to give an indication of where that power should end. 
It is just of no use for the Attorney-General to make speeches and say that the Opposition is against the Commission and does the Opposition not think it desirable that the stock exchanges should be controlled. We agree to that; I think almost everybody does. The point is whether the words 'It is desirable' can be sharpened up a bit so that it will be known exactly what is to be the limit of the power. It is not a good argumentalthough I do not think it has been advanced yet- to say that the legislation can be brought back into this chamber where it can be amended again. We know the crush of Bills that comes into the Parliament and, at times, how quickly they get jammed in. I ask the Attorney-General, if he has any reply at all, whether he will consider inserting some criteria into the Bill that will to some extent limit that power so that the people who are interested in practising in the field will have some idea of how far the Commission can go. 
I rise on a point of order,  Mr Chairman.  I am sorry to interrupt my colleague but I have to take the point of order immediately. I was clearly of the impression that we were dealing with only 2 clauses, 59 and 60. Clause 6 1 is of tremendous importance and one to which I think honourable members would have wished to devote one of their two 10-minute speeches had they known that it was included in the questions we are debating. 
Clauses 59 and 60 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
-Before the sitting was suspended I was about to make one or two remarks about clause 61. The AttorneyGeneral used as an example of the value of this clause the possibility that the economy could have taken a great downturn and he seemed to be saying that under those conditions the Government would advise the GovernorGeneral to close the stock exchanges of this country. 
Well, the Attorney-General used as an example that that was the sort of condition when it might be used. Did the AttorneyGeneral give any other example? 
Well, the Attorney-General is not being very explicit so he obviously does not want to commit himself too much. But the Hansard record will show that the Attorney-General used as an example the possibility of the economy greatly deteriorating, I think, if I recall the content, from a point that it was at recently. Of course, that raises the fears that we would have about this clause. Mention of the GovernorGeneral, of course, ought to be taken up immediately because, as the Attorney-General must concede, that means he would act on the advice of the Government. He said that if that was contemplated of course there would be a Cabinet meeting of 27 Ministers who were responsible, responsive and so on. Of course, he cannot give any assurance about that. We have seen the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  make decisions about currency and many other things without consulting his 26 other Ministers. So really that argument falls to the ground. I understand that the stock exchanges did not close down during the threat of invasion to this country in the 1940s. That was a pretty serious event. So one does get to the position of asking really under what conditions one would expect the Government to advise the Governor-General to close down the stock exchanges of this country. What motives would a government have? What objectives would it have for doing such a thing? The Attorney-General's better argument was: Look, the stock exchanges themselves could close themselves down. If they can do it and they have a certain amount of public accountability surely to heaven governments should have the right to do it'. I think that pretty fairly puts his argument. OK, one can accept that to a point. But of course it would be about the last thing that the stock exchanges would want to do. In fact they have not done it. The motives of this Government cannot be so clear. We have seen, with respect, a certain amount of backing and filling in policy by the Government in the last few months. Therefore one cannot help wondering whether the Government would not take a different view a little later on once it had this power. 
The Attorney-General also said- indeed the clause itself says- that this closing down would be done for the protection of persons buying or selling securities. So the Government will make a decision about whether or not that is in theninterests, not they. Obviously, if the market went down anyone who had shares could continue to hold them until it improved. But maybe people would want to sell. So where are the interests of the people who want to sell to turn their securities, which are perhaps in the form of savings or investments, into liquid funds without the facilities of the stock market? I mention all those things- they are obvious enough- simply to expose some of the difficulties about this clause and to expose the lack of .convincing argument put by the Attorney-General to justify it. I confess, for my part, that I have severe reservations about the use of this clause. I think that some of my colleagues share these reservations. We might have taken stronger action but perhaps the moment is a bit too soon to be looking at that now. 
I say only that I do not find the reasoning convincing. The Attorney-General will find when he reads Hansard that he did allude to the economy going further down. He was talking about this clause so there cannot be any gap in the reasoning there. I have pointed out that it has not been found necessary under the most extreme danger faced in this country to close down the stock exchanges. I have pointed out also that when we are talking about the protection of persons buying and selling securities there are certainly other aspects from those that I mentioned. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 62 to 65- by leave- taken together. 
I raise a point in respect of clause 66. 1 ask whether adequate notice will be given before the intention to proclaim the provisions in respect of licences. I am advised that additional time will be necessary. I seek that assurance. 
I refer to clause 129 (7) (c), which provides that the directors of a registered Australian corporation shall, if significant changes in the non-current assets have occurred in the financial year, cause to be included in the accounts a statement setting out particulars of the changes. This comes back to the point I made in relation to the definitions clauses when the Committee stage of the debate commenced. As far as I am aware there is no definition of 'current assets' or of 'non-current assets'; yet here we have an explicit reference to it. This provision is really capable of all sorts of ambiguity, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is interjecting and who used to be an accountant- I do not want to slight that organisation- knows. The honourable member will know if he has looked up clause 3 that the term 'current liability' is defined. Therefore, why not define the term 'current assets' and be complete about the matter? It may be said that this is the definition of the States. Surely it cannot be argued that we should preserve in this legislation any deficiencies that exist in the State laws now that the Commonwealth has seen fit to take over in that area. 
I find sub-clause (7) (e) of clause 129-1 will spare the Committee a reading of it- very difficult to follow. I hesitated then because I was going to say that I find it to be meaningless. I invite the Attorney-General to tell the Committee what clause 129 (7) (e) means. I think that it is very confusing. I just cannot accept the argument that the Government has had so little time in which to work on this matter that it cannot make the provision clearer. The AttorneyGeneral may think that it is clear and may be able to explain what it means, but there are many people in the community who cannot understand it. 
I refer also to clause 130 and Schedule 3. 1 am interested in the particulars on which directors are to report, as set out on pages 222 and 223 of the Bill. They certainly have to disclose a lot. One would not necessarily quarrel with that without examining the matter in detail, but I was rather struck by the provisions of paragraphs (y), (z) and (za) of the Sechedule, which indicates how many items there are. What are some of the things that the directors have to disclose in their reports? Paragraph (y) refers to the particulars of any arrangements made by the corporation during the financial year for protecting the safety and health of its employees. Paragraph (z) refers to the particulars of any arrangements made by the corporation during the financial year for protecting the safety and health of the public in relation to the activities of the corporation and for protecting the environment. Paragraph (za) refers to the particulars of any arrangements made by the corporation during the financial year for the protection of consumers of goods or services supplied by the corporation. That is pretty loose stuff. I ask whether it is intended that there by regulations more closely defining exactly what is meant there. It must be obvious that that covers a very broad area. They are very generalised statements. If the directors are able to give generalised replies their replies will be valueless. If they are to be fairly specific, and obviously what is intended here is the protection of employees, consumers and others, they are presumably entitled to know exactly what they as directors are to report on and what policies their companies are expected to carry out. 
I summarise the position by saying that I would like some indication as to whether it is. intended that there be further regulations setting out specifically, and not just in a waffling form, what is intended there and, referring to clause 129 (7) (c), by asking why can we not have a definition of the term 'current assets' as there is a definition of the term 'current liabilities' in the definitions clause and whether the AttorneyGeneral can explain what clause 129 (7) (e) means? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The question is: 'That clauses 1 19 to 130 be agreed to'. 
I rise to a point of order,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Does that mean that the Attorney-General is declining to answer questions asked by the Committee? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- It is a matter for the Attorney-General. 
-Clause 162 introduces a new concept of the cancellation of registration of prospectuses. The recommendation of the Eggleston report was that this was unnecessary. Accordingly, there is a strong view in some sections of the community that subclause (7) should be deleted. Clause 162 ( 1) provides for the registration of prospectuses. Subcause (l)(b) requires the prospectuses to state the date of registration which is a matter of practice in regard to printing which could cause significant delays in its issue. This is regarded by many as being a provision which is unnecessary and there is no reason why it should not bear the date of its signature by the directors. 
Sub-clauses (5), (6) and (7) establish an important departure from the State Acts in regard to inquiries and investigations by the Commission for the registration of a prospectus, namely the discretion invested in the Commission to deny registration if it is dissatisfied as to the expert's qualifications or experience, and to cancel a registered prospectus under the conditions mentioned in the last of the sub-clauses. 
The point that I ask the Attorney-General therefore, is why this departure from the recommendations of the Eggleston Committee was made. As I asked in my second reading speech- I hope that the Attorney will respond to this- what happens if cancellation of the prospectus takes place after some shares have been issued? They cannot surely be called back. It is a very common procedure for shares to be issued as the applications are received and the prospectus at issue is open. That is a question which is naturally of considerable concern and I would like to hear from the Attorney-General. Will he tell me briefly exactly what will be the position on that cancellation? The legislation should revert, as is suggested by many, to the equivalent position in the State Acts as the Commission, even if it can be adequately staffed, simply cannot give effect to the new proposals. I would like a brief answer on this. 
-The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  may recall that the other day when I rose to speak I was gagged. I would like to ask him now whether the withdrawal of this reference will be accompanied by- maybe it has happened already- the withdrawal of the reference to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in relation to Forrest Place in Perth. He will recall that that reference was made in rather special circumstances and that there was some protest from honourable members on this side of the chamber. So I wonder whether the withdrawal of the resolution in relation to the Sanderson High School has been preceded or will be followed by a withdrawal of the reference concerning the post office building which was to be built across the northern end of Forrest Place in the heart of Perth. 
asked the Teasurer, upon notice: 
Did he or his predecessor in recent months arrange a loan when abroad that was subsequently cancelled. 
If so, (a) were any costs including cancellation fees involved and (b) what was the amount. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How long has the Australian Post Office News been published. 
) How many were published in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the cost in each of those years. 
Are there other indirect expenses involved in its production, distribution, etc; if so, what is an estimate of those costs. 
) What is the purpose of producing the publication. 
Other than telephone directories, what other publications are produced by the Post Office and what, briefly, are the purposes for which they are produced, and to whom are they sent 
What is the approximate cost of direct and indirect expenses in the publishing and distribution of these publications, other than telephone directories. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has the Minister noticed the new and apparently growing practice of Ministers to have their photographs appear in Government advertisements. 
Has the Minister authorised this practice or is it a Cabinet decision. 
Does this practice involve more expenditure for the Australian taxpayers. 
Will the Minister have the practice discontinued. 
Has the Minister received letters of complaint about the practice. 
Did the Minister in particular notice a series of advertisements placed in Australian newspapers on or about 3 1 December 1974 with a large photograph of the Minister for Social Security which many regarded as having some political motive. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What are the comparative costs expressed in Australian currency of the common (a) surface and (b) airmail envelopes sizes and/or weights in (i) Australia, (it) the United States of America, (iii) the United Kingdom, (iv) West Germany and (v) New Zealand. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Has the Department of the Treasury prepared estimates that indicate that existing  programs, and those proposed by the Government in 1975-76, will result in a Budget deficitthat is, expenditure greater than income- of about $3,000m during 1975-76? What action does he propose? How much of this is caused by the appropriation for the Labor Party's health scheme, Medibank? Will not this mean that the appropriation generally will be so great that taxation at its present extremely high rates cannot be reduced? 
I second the amendment. As has been said by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the mover of the amendment, this amendment if carried would enable the House to meet again the week after next, as it ought to do and as would be the usual practice. For the sake of the record, I point out that the usual method during the period of sittings is to sit for 3 weeks after one week's recess so that one gets 9 sitting days in 4 weeks. Under the Government's proposal the House will have 4 weeks of recess so that we will achieve the mighty score of 12 days debate in 8 weeks. I believe it is primarily to suit the convenience of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who is going overseas. Certainly and importantly, a secondary consideration is that the 
Government need not face the just criticism which it should receive because it is making a complete mess of the economy of this country. The motion is part of a pattern to stifle debate in this House and to prevent the proper discussion of proposals and matters of public interest, in the interests of our parliamentary institution. 
I point out, as did the previous speaker, what has been happening to the Parliament under the period of government of the Australian Labor Party. I am continually surprised at the way in which people who have been members for the last year or two only- those who have been members longer appear to have forgotten- are not aware of how things were only 3 or 4 years ago. In the main, issues of involvement - 
The honourable member for Melbourne might care to listen to one or two statistics because I know that when the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  rises in a little while he will make his usual jokes and denigrations and he will quote examples. Anyone can do that. Let me give the House statistics on the main issues. I apologise to the House if I mention one or two statistics. Question time is obviously the most important period in this House for the exposure of matters of public interest. In 1971 and 1972 the average number of questions asked each day was seventeen. In 1973 it was fifteen. Last year it was thirteen. So far this year it has been eleven. In other words, the opportunity of private members to ask questions has been very greatly restricted. An examination of Hansard shows that this is caused by excessively long answers by Ministers, particularly to questions which were obviously pre-arranged by Labor backbench supporters including the honourable member for Melbourne who is wearing a red shirt today. 
The present Labor Government has virtually ceased giving statements to the House on important and topical matters of public interest. Statements by Ministers were great occasions for debate in this House. How often did we hear Leaders of the Opposition ask the Prime Minister whether he would make a statement on a particular topical and important matter of government policy. The Prime Minister would invariably agree. After a day or two there would be a debate with 3 to 8 speakers on each side debating that matter. In 1972 there were 86 such statements. Last year there were twenty-eight. This year there have been only two. The reason is that the Government and the Leader of the House have refused to allow these statements to be made. One of the statements which we were able to have brought forward was a statement by the Prime Minister attempting to justify his overseas trip. He was very unconvincing. The debate was gagged. The Government, by the weight of its numbers, prevented the debate from proceeding after one or two speeches on each side. 
Another most important matter is the debate on motions to take note of papers. The Government of the day presents papers to the House. It was a common thing for the Minister concerned to move a motion which would enable a debate on a report. Those debates were great occasions. What are the statistics there? In 1972 there were 44 such debates. Last year there were twelve. In the last 3 weeks I think we have had one. What is even worse is that far fewer speakers were al- lowedineachofthosedebatesinthelast2years before the Government gagged the debate. The Leader of the House moves a motion which has the effect of preventing further discussion. Is it any wonder that the Opposition has rather strong feelings about what the Government is doing to the proceedings in this House? Is it any wonder that the Opposition has moved this amendment and taken points of order under serious provocation by Ministers, and generally the proceedings in the House have deteriorated? It is obviously the result of this action which the Government has taken. I say that the Government is attempting to treat this House as just a platform for its own propaganda. It wants ample time to put its views, but it will not allow the Opposition and private members adequate time to put their views. One could point out just how little opportunity a private member has to express a view. Obviously the major reason for not providing adequate time is to capture the dissemination of government propaganda in this country. We know that the amount of propaganda has increased vastly. I believe that 400 A grade journalists are employed by the Government to put out this material. Is it any wonder that the public is flooded with it? 
Now the Government seeks to close Parliament for 4 weeks- an interval which is quite out of keeping with anything we have seen previously. It is doing so in the face of a pool of 300 000 unemployed having been created by this Government. It mouths words about improving the situation and about countries always having unemployment. The fact is that the level of unemployment in this country is far worse than it has been for many a long day. What is perhaps more important is that the Government has not yet produced any firm anti-inflationary measures to deal with the situation. It is just a lot of waffle. 
Nothing has been done which has had an effect on unemployment. If one looks at the steady growth - 

 -Mr Speaker, I take your advice. It will be recognised that I am illustrating why the Government ought to allow the Parliament to continue its normal sitting cycle. I am illustrating what I believe to be its motives for restricting sitting days. Let me move to the next point. It is that this Government is forever complaining of the need to find time to put through its legislation. There has been a tremendous rush of legislation. I see from the notice paper this morning that the Government intends to introduce 1 1 new Bills. Some of them are on extremely far-reaching matters. I refer to the Ombudsman Bill and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill. I am sure now that on some future occasion the Leader of the House will tell us that it is not possible to allow more than two, three or four speakers on each side out of 127 members on those matters, because of the shortage of time. He has created that shortage. 
-Like he did yesterday. There are so many examples. One could go on for a quarter of an hour. He jammed through this House one day the most far-reaching proposed legislation on national compensation. We had a little longer to debate the Corporations and Securities Exchange Bill. The Committee stage which took up last Wednesday and which unfortunately was not broadcast disclosed that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  did not understand the Bill. He was asked a series of questions. Although he had an adviser sitting in the side benches he was unable to answer any question in detail. Firstly he went through a period of antagonism for even being asked questions about his Bill. Then he gave us a lot of waffle. Finally, he said: 'We will look later on at anything you say, but I am afraid I cannot give you the information now'. 
Eleven new Bills are to be introduced today. There have been restrictions of time on practically every Bill. Yesterday the Appropriation Bills were gagged. They were important money Bills on which members- I repeat there are 127 members here and they are entitled to some say- wanted to make speeches. They wanted to talk on matters of economic import, but they were gagged. The Government takes the view that there is not enough time. If there is not enough time, why do we not sit the week after next and sit the normal time. Gags, that is to say, motions which prevent debate are moved continually in this House by the Leader of the House and the Government Whip. I do not have the number here but it is some hundreds. I refer to one device that the Leader of the House has got up to which causes the number to be less than what it might otherwise be, and that is the automatic closure of the adjournment debate at 1 1 o 'clock in the evening. If that did not exist- it is a guillotine- then of course he would have to gag the adjournment debate every evening so the number would increase because, as he knows, there are far more speakers who wish to speak on the adjournment than those who are permitted to do so. I know that he will tell me later on- if he does not, he has said it in the past- that people want to go home at a reasonable hour. In that case start the adjournment debate earlier. Have more time so we can speak. There is not enough opportunity for members in this House to criticise, to discuss and to present alternative policy. I suggest that is because the Government wishes to stifle discussion. 
The honourable member for New England, in moving the amendment, referred to the Committee debate on Bills being virtually disbanded. On many Bills we do not even go into Committee. When we do, the gag is frequently used. Ministers often have little information to provide on questions asked about clauses of their own Bills for which they are responsible and about which one would think they would know a good deal more. So we have left that part of the examination of proposed legislation to the Senate. Surely honourable members do not agree with that as a procedure. Because the Bills being introduced are so much more numerous the Government ought to be providing much more time. The Government is very proud of the number of Bills it has put up. It equates the number of Bills with the amount of improvement, which obviously is a fallacious argument. Nevertheless it puts up that view frequently. We have the spectacle towards the end of every sitting of the Prime Minister coming along with great pride and insisting on listing all these Bills as though somehow by their very weight the standard of living of Australians is improved. Of course the reverse has been the case. If the Government is to bring more Bills, that is proposed legislation, into the House surely more time must be provided, particularly if the scope of the Bills is as wide-ranging as it is in so many areas. I have mentioned some Bills involving a tremendous range and depth. 
Of course this Government has a desire to turn over our present way of life and to create an entirely different set of conditions. That is a rather ambitious aim. In the private sector, for instance, productive capacity is endangered yet no opportunity will be available in the next 4 weeks to raise this matter in the Parliament. It is being jeopardised because of the ham-fisted economic policies of a government that does not seem to understand that if you damage that productive capacity, you have no hope of absorbing unemployment because there is no way you can do it except through the private sector. I suppose we are now about to be treated to the jokes and misrepresentations of the Leader of the House. We have heard them so many times before. I have referred to the main issues. What is involved is the restriction of criticism and the opportunities and rights for full discussion in this place. We all know what dictatorship is, but let me remind the House that parliamentary democracy is balanced and shared power and opportunity. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Doresearches indicate that motor cyclists and passengers have a higher accident rate than motor car drivers and passengers. 
2 ) If so, what are the details. 
Can these be analysed into degrees of seriousness of accident. 
How many motor cycles and motor cars are registered in Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
1 ) Does he recall making references in speeches and in replies to questions to the value of providing answers to questions without notice and on notice and the need for answers to be prompt. 
Will he now give all the information he can discover in answer to my question No. 658 referring to the employment by the Government since 2 December 1972 of candidates for the Australian Labor Party at the elections of December 1972 and May 1974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the British Government through its High Commission, or in any other way, indicate to the Government or to officials of British Airways that the Russian violinist Georgi Ermolenko was not to be carried on United Kingdom aircraft out of Australia from Perth Airport. 
Is there any information available to the Government on the attitude of the British Government to the carriage of  Mr Ermolenko  from Australia; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the press release by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, dated 20 December 1974, in which reference was made to a meeting of the leaders of the South Pacific Forum held in Western Samoa 11 to 16 December 1974, did Australia send a sufficiently high representative when practically all the other countries were represented by Prime Ministers, Presidents, Chief Ministers or Premiers. 
Did the Minister for Foreign Affairs have more important duties than attendance at this meeting. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the news release of the Minister dated 22 December 1974, how is it proposed to see that the payment of $150,000 to the African national liberation movements will be confined to humanitarian assistance for peoples in Zambia. 
Is it a fact that the payment will make other funds available for violent purposes. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice: 
1 ) Did he write to  Mr J.  Mottram of Ajax Printing and Duplicating Pty Ltd, Thornbury, Victoria, on 10 June 1974 indicating that he thought the complications of metric measures are likely to confuse and distress persons much more than decimal currency and that he could not see that the benefits are immense. 
Did he also say that he favoured action to suspend conversion so that its costs and benefits can be reassessed. 
If so, was he expressing the attitude of the Government; if not, what action is he taking to change that attitude. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the United Nations publish statistics indicating that Sydney is a more expensive place to live than New York. 
If so, what were the statistics as they concerned those two cities. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister. for Urban and Regional Development is related in part to his answer earlier today. Did he say or imply, as stated in the 'Bulletin' of 5 April, that it would help to have the formerly proposed capital gains tax on land owners in operation and that, to pursue policies connected with urban and regional development, he intends to keep trying to persuade Cabinet to impose a capital gains tax? Is that his view? ?Mr UREN-  Mr Speaker,  as you are aware, publicity has been given, to this matter. A submission was put before Cabinet. It did not relate to .a capital gains tax but to a speculative tax on urban land. Cabinet decided against it. It is known that I was very much in favour of it, but I have no further comment to make. 
I move: 
Omit paragraph ( b). 
This amendment is in many respects consequential upon the amendment to clause 21, which provides for the legislation of political parties and the insertion on the ballot paper of the names of political parties. The Opposition, as I foreshadowed in my contribution to the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, will oppose that provision in this chamber and in the Senate. As this is the first time that the provision arises in the Bill, perhaps I ought to outline somewhat briefly the principles that are involved in it, most of which those in attendance will recognise are in conflict with much of the misrepresentation contained in the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a few moments ago. This is an attempt by the Government to define what is a political party. Political scientists have been trying to do that for hundreds of years without success. This Bill has embarked in this clause on an ambitious sttempt to do so but has not succeeded in doing so. 
The basic objection to the principle embodied in this clause is that under our parliamentary systemnot necessarily those of the countries referred to by the Prime Minister, many of which have very different systems- which is the result of evolution and of hundreds of years of development of a representative system of democracy in Britain, members of Parliament remain individuals. We have followed that system as it was basic to our way of life. That is a very important thing to the people of this country and to the operation of our parliamentary democracy. Although members of Parliament come here as successful party candidates they retain their individual identities. They are not the agents of their parties. There have been important occasions in the proceedings of this House on which members who have come in as party representatives- incidentally, those who have come in as Independents also have played an important part- have taken an individual role and a role that is sometimes at variance with that of their party. That has been a part of our parliamentary process. I suppose that that in the minds of most members of Parliament remains an attitude to adopt as a last resort; nevertheless it has been an important flexibility in our system. That principle was embodied in a very famous speech by Edmund Burke to the electors of Bristol when he pointed out to them what has become and what has been referred to by many scholars and political scientists as a classic assertion of the rights of an individual member of Parliament to do what his conscience dictates. Obviously most members of Parliament agree with almost all the principles and certainly the platform of the party which they adopted and which adopted them when they came here, but that is a different matter from going down the road to a point where one becomes simply a mouthpiece and an agent of a party, losing all identity in formalising that relationship. We object to that. 
Of course, in practice the matter goes even deeper than that because once one tries to have party names registered one opens a can of worms. There has been a number of illustrations of this. Let me mention one that comes to mind. A few years ago a group of people in this country attempted to run a political party under the name 'Liberal Reform Group'. It was a title that was deliberately chosen in order to mislead people who would customarily be attracted to voting for Liberal Party of Australia candidates. Certain legal action was instituted. It was only partially successful. We can see happening here an individual or a group of individuals trying to get a name as close as he or they can to that of the well established parties in a deliberate attempt to create confusion and to try to make the ballot paper a means of attracting some support for himself or themselves. Such a deliberate and misleading action is unfair and undesirable. 
I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to what happens when any dispute arises. Who is to decide it? The person who is to decide it, without the right of appeal, is to be the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. How about that! That officer- a public servant- is to make decisions affecting the functions and operations of political parties. Surely it is part of our system that anybody can start a political party, that any person can stand as a candidate and that such political parties are able to have their names and their pamphlets clearly identifiable from others without any situation arising in which some officer of the Commonwealth has to make a decision. So we reject all of that as being quite unreasonable. 
We think that this is a matter of great importimportance. Superficially there may be attraction to this proposition by many people who will say: 'We know exactly which candidate is standing for which party', but once we start on this registration system, once we start trying to define when a name is sufficiently different from another, and once we start dealing with peoplethere are some, but very few- in the community who are ever ready to take advantage of such legalities we start to get into a very difficult and undesirable position. I have outlined my arguments against this proposition. They pertain more to clause 21, but clause 4 is the first of the references to it in this Bill. Of course, for the reasons I have outlined and to which other speakers have referred, the Opposition is strongly opposed to this proposition and will object to it. 
-I thought I explained why this matter had to be raised at this stage. It was because this clause was considered first. After all, we are taking the clauses in numerical order. If the Government had indicated that it would accept our amendment to clause 2 1 there would have been no need to press the point in relation to this early clause. I make one or two brief observations about what has been said. Certainly some rather specious arguments have been put up against the 2, 1 think irrefutable, arguments of principle which have been put forward. Honourable members on the Government side have attempted to sidetrack by introducing some detail. Let me answer the detail. One can hardly expect the percentage of informal votes to be less than they were at the last election. I have in front of me a schedule relating to elections. The highest percentage of informal votes is 3.7 and the percentages range down to one point something. As one looks down the list one sees that 1 per cent and 2 per cent are the order of the day. The Government will not reduce the informal votes below that percentage. There is a remarkably good vote. Of course it is evidence of the high literacy and understanding of the political system which exist in this country. 
Honourable members have talked about the number of countries using this system. I think I pointed out somewhat briefly that many countries have a very different system from ours. But if 40 countries are using the system there must be 110 countries which are not. That is obvious from the number of countries today. Reference was also made to the 73 candidates for the Senate in New South Wales and people not knowing to which parties they belonged. As a matter of fact, the result arising from that unique ballot paper showed that the public of New South Wales approached the election with a high degree of understanding. They knew very well that the vast majority of those candidates were independent. They treated them accordingly, they were not attracted to their policies or their views. They did not know them. Those candidates got a very small vote. In fact, the major parties got about the same percentage as one might have predicted from polls and other sources. So to try to say that anything misleading happened there is a fallacious argument. One could go on. 
The comments of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on this subject seemed to imply that he did not want to compel people to vote at all. We know that it is his policy and the policy of his Party to have compulsory voting. That really destroys the whole line of argument which he tried to build up in relation to this clause and clause 21 which we will consider later. The gag was applied after the Prime Minister had spoken. Surely that was silly when we had said how much we wanted to debate this matter. In this debate it is all very well to talk about other countries. We have been used to a system here. It has worked pretty well. The present Labor Government comes along and wants to make far-reaching proposals for change. It is of no use talking about little bits and pieces and the technicalities with which everyone agrees. It is of no use trying to divert the argument in that way. 'We are concentrating on the main issues. We have a system operating in this country. It has been tried and tested. It has been developed in a way which is suitable to us. It is really almost entirely irrelevant to talk about what happens in other countries where systems and conditions are different. We see no reason to change this system. We see a great deal of fault in the proposal and that is why this clause is being opposed. 
-Clause 6 amends section 16 of the Act to provide that the Governor-General, on the advice of the Government, may appoint a person licensed or registered as a surveyor under the law of a State as a Distribution Commissioner for the purposes of proposing boundaries. At the present time the Governor-General may appoint as a Distribution Commissioner only the Surveyor-General of the State or, if obtainable, an officer having similar qualifications. The clause also provides that the Minister may engage staff to assist the Distribution Commissioners and that they be paid remuneration and allowances as the Minister determines. The Opposition is opposed to this proposed change in the law. There is a great deal, we believe, to be said for keeping the Surveyor-General or his deputy because he is a person who comes from a State public service where there is a tradition of objectivity and some separateness. This arrangement alleviates any doubts that certainly exist on our side as to possible Labor Party fiddling. 
The appointments to the Commonwealth Public Service of  Mr Menadue  and  Dr Wilenski  are cases in point in our minds of the appointment of highly partisan people to positions such as the position we are now discussing. The fact is that we have always been able to obtain State officers to assist. The boundaries that are now open to objection have been drawn by such people. So to say that it is not possible to get these people and that the scope ought to be made wider is a fatuous reason and does not convince us that change is desirable. There is one rather prominent surveyor in the Labor Party in Queensland who particularly comes to mind. 
I do not believe that the staff engaged for the purpose of assisting the Distribution Commissioners should be controlled in any way by the Minister. We intended to suggest that they ought to be employed by the Commissioners themselves. But we have received some advice that there would be difficulties because the Commissioners are not a body corporate. So we are left with doing what has been done before, namely, drawing on the resources of the Public Service itself. They are the reasons the Opposition does not agree to this clause and believes that what is proposed would be a retrograde and perhaps partisan step. 
-I think I ought to say that in the light of the attitude of the Minister to divisions and the time that will be taken up by them the Opposition will not be dividing on this clause and others that follow. As I mentioned in my speech, we have strong views on some of the clauses. We will not be calling for divisions because if we do the Government will promote a guillotine motion which will have the effect of restricting even the amendments that can be proposed. 
The Minister has said that he will consider the amendment. He has also said that he will not adjourn the debate so that the amendments may be considered and perhaps some of them passed by this Committee. The Bill will go to the Senate where the amendments will be moved again. Because of the negotiations that will go on and the arrangements that will be made in the Senate the Bill will have to come back here again. That apparently commends itself to the Minister as a more sensible course, though I cannot follow it myself. But I want to put on the record that that is the reason and the only reason why divisions will not be called on this clause or on other clauses. 
As to the remarks made by the Minister, I want to say that I had thought I was not casting innuendos but was being rather explicit for him. If he desires me to do so I will be more explicit either publicly or privately. But there was no question whatsoever of innuendo and insinuation in what I said. 
I did not say that at all. What I did say was that the Government was crook. I also made certain references to the Minister but I do not want to contravene the Standing Orders by enlarging on them. I gave certain examples which were related not to the Commissioners but to appointments to the Public Service. I thought it was clear enough, but I will spell it out in words of one syllable if necessary, that if one is allowed to do something in this area one will do it in another area when it comes to arranging boundaries. That is what I am saying and that surely is clear enough. This is the place in' which to raise these matters. 
The Minister said: 'You know, if you criticise like this I will produce evidence'. Well, OK, do that. I have heard that said on many occasions by the Minister and other Ministers. The Minister can do that as far as I am concerned, but there is no point in his trying to relate this matter to other issues. There is also no point in his trying to say that I have said something by way of innuendo when I think I have been pretty clear in what I have said. I do not think what I was talking about escaped the Minister. 
Although this is getting away from the clause under discussion, since I have been challenged on this matter I remind the Minister that I pointed out that the Western Australian - 
I did not say that at all. The Minister has been saying it. He has said that about 6 times. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I think that this has gone far enough. I ask the honourable member for Curtin to address his remarks to the Chair and the Minister to contain himself also. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I certainly take your advice and say that if what I said is read, the facts that I have given will be quite clear. 
There is another small point in respect of this clause. I agree with the Minister when he says that it is important to have staff. Are we saying that no staff have been used by the Commissioners from any quarter? Obviously, they have had some staff. 
It may have been very limited. I have said also that we would have liked to see it provided and that we would have tried to find some way of doing that. But we know that because of the way these things are conducted, there is no opportunity to discuss them between each other. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave us all sorts of reasons why the establishment of this select committee of the Parliament was turned down. It was supposed to look into these matters. To try to get a co-operative effort without that situation we are left having to oppose the clause because we do not believe that it is sound or that in these electoral matters conditions of employment of staff should be set by the Minister. That is what this clause states and that is why we are opposed to it. 
I move: 
Omit paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), substitute the following word and paragraph: 'and (b) has left, and is living outside, Australia, but has a fixed intention of returning to Australia and of living within a Subdivision. '. 
This amendment provides for a new sub-clause to enable a person who is posted overseas in the service of Australia, a State or public authority to enroll in respect of his overseas address. The principal effect of the provision is that such a person, where not otherwise entitled to have his name retained on the roll, will be entitled to enrolment on the roll for the subdivision to which he has a fixed intention of returning but in respect of his overseas address. Provision has been made also to cover the enrolment of the spouses of the persons entitled to enrolment by virtue of this clause. The Opposition believes that while that in itself is desirable, the clause ought to be amended so that it applies to any person who has left Australia with the  intention  of returning and not just to a person who is a public servant. The provisions set out in sub-clause (b), (c) and (d) makes the clause restrictive to that extent. I will read out the sub-clauses. It states that a person: " 
is qualified for enrolment; 
That is all right. But it goes on to say: 
is in the service of Australia, a State or a public authority; 
has left, and is living outside, Australia for the purpose of performing duties in that service; and 
has a fixed intention of returning to Australia and of living within a Subdivision. 
Why should this be confined to such people? Surely if a man is posted overseas- let us say to the Bank of New South Wales in London for a 2-year period- he knows he will come back. Everybody knows he will come back. Why should he not have enrolment as well. There is a  second limb to this clause but I suggest with your permission,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that this matter be dealt with first and the other matter which involves a number of consequential amendments be dealt with later. 
Amendment negatived. 
-by leave-The Opposition objects to another part of this clause. I move: 
In proposed section 41 a. (1), omit 'or the spouse of such a person who is living with that person, '. 
In proposed section 4 1 a ( 1 ), omit 'or her '. 
In proposed section 4 1 a ( 1 ), omit 'or she '. 
In proposed section 41a (2), omit 'or she'. 
In proposed section 4 1 a ( 3 ), omit ' or he '. 
In proposed section 4 1 a ( 3 ) omit ' or she '. 
In proposed section 4 1 a (3 ), omit 'or she '. 
In proposed section 41 a (4), omit 'or her'. 
In proposed section 41 a (4), omit 'or she'. 
Omit sub-section  (6) of proposed  section 4 1 a. 
Omit sub-section ( 1 1 ) of proposed section 41a. 
The amendments refer to the matter to which I was just speaking. They provide that a spouse of such a person who is overseas on behalf of the Commonwealth be similarly enrolled. Under the Opposition's amendment, if the enrolment were extended to all persons overseas who had a fixed intention of returning to Australia of course a spouse would be covered. Indeed to single out the spouse in this way surely must be offensive to those who are taking an interest in such matters as International Women's Year and in the rights of women and their position in the Australian community. It singles women out and gives them a right to vote simply because they are with their husbands or wives as the case may be. No doubt 'spouse' would apply mainly to women and in very few cases to men. We think that if this clause were widened as it ought to be widened to include Australian overseas who intend to come back the spouse- in most cases the wife- would appear on the roll in her own right which is surely as it should be. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 14 to 16- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 17 (Names on Roll may be objected to). 
-This clause amends section 52 of .the Act to provide that when a person objects to a name on an electoral roll he shall lodge a deposit of $2 rather than the 50c provided for in the existing law. Lodgment of objection to a name on the roll surely should be as cheap as possible as part of our system of rolls, remembering that enrolment is compulsory and the accurate compilation of those rolls is an enormous task carried out by the Electoral Office. We do not think that cost should be a debarring factor in making the roll more accurate. Therefore, to increase the deposit for each person from 50c to $2 is unreasonable. If anyone wishes to raise an objection there should hardly be any expense involved. Perhaps it is a minor detail but it is really an important detail of the system that we are keeping. There seems no adequate reason for raising the amount. The notion that one should review amounts of money because of inflation surely has to be tempered with what the amount involved is to do. We believe it is quite wrong to put that extra imposition on people. Therefore we propose that the clause be deleted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  question is that the clause be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clauses 18 to 20- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 21. 
-The substance of this clause was debated a little earlier when the Committee was considering clause 4. Although I raised the major items of principle then I want on this most important clause to allude to the matter in a little more detail because of its importance. The clause occupies 6 pages of the printed Bill. It provides for the registration of parties and the insertion on ballot papers of the names of parties against candidates' names. It is an enormous tangle. Of course the actual Bill, rather than the comments that have been made so far in the debate, only indicates the complexity of the clause and all the difficulties one would run into. The explanatory memorandum is, I think, longer on this matter than on any of the others. A new section 58A ( 1 ) is proposed. It provides a definition of a political party leader- a definition if you please- definitions of a party, a register, a registered name, a registered office and a registered party. Another proposed new sub-section provides that if the Chief Electoral Officer is satisfied that two or more parties that are associated with one another and have a common leader and a desire to be treated as a party he may treat those parties as one party. 
-Did you say: 'That is a point'? 
I am glad the honourable member raised that, because the question of who makes that decision and the question of coalition parties and other parties within the community is one which immediately comes to mind. As I have already indicated, a determination can be made on the matter without the parties themselves having any right of redress at all. I tell honourable members that the parties are concerned about the implications of the provision, assurances of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  notwithstanding. 
Under this legislation a party has to qualify in respect of an election. Under another proposed new sub-section the Chief Electoral Officer shall cause the name of the registered party to be printed on the ballot paper. Another provision concerns the conditions for a political party to qualify- imagine, actually to have qualifications. - before it can be allowed to be put forward to the public as a party. It must fulfil certain qualifications for the purpose of having the name of that party printed on the ballot paper. 
I think the honourable member for Phillip asked if there were not qualifications for candidates, if I heard him correctly. Of course there are, and what wide qualifications they are, since they bring into their ambit about  99.9  per cent of the population of the country. But here we have got qualifications that are by no means clear. They are not set out in the Constitution with any clarity and what we have is a determination of those qualifications by a Commonwealth official. Clause  58d (1.)  states in part: . . . a party qualifies in respect of an election only if- 
in the case of an election of a Member of the House of Representatives ... the number of candidates endorsed by the party . . . is not less than onequarter of the whole number of Divisions in that State; 
in the case of an election of Senators ... the number of candidates endorsed by the party . . . is not less than one-quarter of the whole number of Senators to be elected for that State; 
in the case of a by-election of a Member of the House of Representatives ... the party qualified under paragraph (a) . . . at the last preceding general election . . . ; 
in the case of an election of a  Senator ...  to fill a casual vacancy or casual vacancies only ... the party qualified under paragraph (b) in respect of the last preceding election of Senators .... 
Clause  58g( Instates: 
The leader of a party may . . . lodge with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer an application for the registration of a name in respect of the party. 
Sub-clause (2) provides that the application shall set out the name of the Party, the name and address of the leader of the Party and the address of the office of the Party. So we have a great structure of registration and regulation being proposed by the Government in which an attempt is made to anticipate all sorts of conditions. There is reference in the Bill to what happens where parties amalgamate. Another subclause provides that a mere alteration in the name of the Party does not affect its identity; another that there shall be a register of the names of political parties. How this Government does love registers. 
I have said enough about what is proposed by the Government in the Bill to show that a very complex set of provisions is provided. Government members may think that is funny but I do not. A very complex set of provisions is being proposed for the Parliament to agree to. It is the belief of the Opposition that these provisions are cumbersome and will lead to that legal quagmire to which I referred earlier in the second reading debate. I pointed out at that time the confusion that can take place, the encouragement that there will be to minor parties to use these provisions to mislead people into believing that their party is associated with another party. I pointed out that the formalising of the existing party structure gives advantage to existing parties and makes it very difficult for new ones because it is completely against the representative parliamentary democracy that has been developed in this country. That is an important point and, if I might say so, it was put very eloquently at this despatch box not very long ago by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  It is no use saying, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said earlier: 'We have got to take cognisance of the existing position and the realities of political life '. There have been exceptions in our Parliament to what he is calling the reality, and they have been important exceptions. There have been people who have left parties- his and mine- and they have done it over important issues. So that formalising parties and formalising the position of members here and aligning them entirely with parties from a legal point of view is a step that we should not take. What is being proposed here goes in that direction to some extent, to an important extent, and it is something that the Opposition thinks ought to be resisted. 
I emphasise those 2 main grounds for objectionthe individual nature of the position of members of Parliament in this Parliament and the legal difficulties and confusion that will arise with party names, with the tremendously cumbersome provisions that cover 6 pages of material which, when one reads it carefully, raises a lot of questions in people's minds and therefore does not give the certainty that is necessary. I said earlier that it opens a can of worms. Those are substantial reasons for the Opposition 's objection to these provisions. To provide that New South Wales must have 12 seats in a House of Representatives election contested by a party before it can have its name on the ballot paper only goes to point up the difficulties that can arise and the unfairness of these provisions to small Parties. I understand that one such small party that does not happen to have a representative in the Parliament has protested- I think rather logically protested- against this proposal. It has also been argued that registration will establish the bona fides of political parties and will prevent a group of persons from adopting a name similar to that of an existing party. It does not do anything of the kind. It only opens up the opportunity for that and leaves the judgment on it to an officer of the Commonwealth. 
-This clause proposes to insert into the Act a provision which goes beyond the 1971 Bill. I am advised that it is the view of the Government that, having regard to the high number of candidates who were nominated in the election of May last year and the need to restrict frivolous candidatures, it is proposed that the amount of the deposit be $2,000 in the case of a Senate election - 
I take the point made by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  The amounts proposed are $1,000 in the case of a Senate election and $500 in the case of a House of Representatives election. At present a candidate must lodge a $100 deposit for a House of Representatives election and it is proposed to increase that amount to $250. It is proposed to increase the amount lodged by a Senate candidate from $200 at present to $1,000. The Opposition has looked closely at this proposal and believes that, whilst a case can be made out for the increase in the deposit by a candidate for the House of Representatives from $100 to $250, the amount of $1,000 for a Senate candidate is excessive, the Opposition therefore proposes an alternative. I move: 
In  paragraph  (b) omit  '$1,000',  substitute '$500'. 
I do not think that the clause needs a lot of argument. On the one hand, one can see advantage in trying to prevent frivolous candidatures but, on the other hand, there has to be some reasonable amount set down because the basic right of an Australian citizen to stand for Parliament must be protected as much as possible. It is possible to require too great an amount. In the case of the Senate, to raise the amount from $200 to $1,000 is to multiply it by five. That is a pretty big increase even in these times of very high inflation. 
I link this effort to the attempt that we see by the Labor Government in other areas to make it more difficult for small parties and individual candidates. The Opposition Parties believe that to increase the Senate deposit by so much would debar many people seeking to stand for Parliament. I know that the Australia Party has protested about this matter and, in my view, validly protested about it. Obviously, it is the right of citizens to stand for Parliament and it is not proper for the large parties or candidates who are likely to be successful to protect their own interests by making the deposits prohibitive. The purpose of the increase is in the main to prevent people putting their names forward frivolously and unnecessarily clogging the ballot paper. In recent elections many people have availed themselves to this opportunity, and who is to say that it is wrong for them to do so? So I say that the system we have operating is a system that goes beyong the present situation in relation to the established parties and the current position. This system must operate to take account of circumstances which may arise in the future and which are different  from  the present circumstances. The system should not operate so that it unduly favours the larger parties. 
Yesterday, the Prime Minister said something about the value of a 2-party system in the United Kingdom. Of course, in days gone by, the Liberal Party, and not the Conservative Party, was the big anti-Labor Party. The position there has reversed itself because the public acceptability of the big parties has changed. Elements such as the period of polling, the way in which postal votes can be recorded, and the amount of deposits all form part of that system of fairness. The Opposition puts forward this amendment, believing that $500 is a more acceptable deposit for Senate candidates in these days than $1,000, which we believe is too much. 
-There are one or two points worth mentioning. In the first place, the Minister referred to the number of informal votes. I forget the adjective he used. But if he were to examine the informal votes in the election we all have in mind- the Senate election for New South Wales in which there were 73 candidates- he would find that the informal percentage was not greatly different from the percentage in the election held in 1 96 1 . 
It may have been so in individual electorates, but it was not so taking the State as a whole- and the candidates were standing for the whole State of New South Wales. It is worth drawing attention to the factalthough many in this chamber and the Parliament would be aware of it- that in considering the question we should ask whether the large number of candidates made any difference. Really, it is a tribute to the intelligence of the electors of New South Wales- and I am not one of them- that obviously they were able to sort out the candidates fairly readily. It is difficult to look at the result and to think that any different percentage result might have come out of this had the number of candidates been much smaller. We have to face the fact that the overwhelming number of electors were quite clear about this. They made up their minds. Either they thought the candidates were frivolous or they thought they were of insufficient weight; but, whatever the reasoning was, those candidates did not get many votes as a percentage, and that is what matters in a Senate count under the proportional representation system that we use. 
 The Minister mentioned that we might have to consider a revision of the system. I remind him that it was brought in by a Labor government in 1948-49, and that the 1949 Senate election was the first election under the system. By. and large, probably it has served the country in the way that was intended. No doubt there are other systems. One could go on arguing about electoral systems until the cows came home, but that system has produced a far more balanced Senate than we knew previously, and I think there is a lot to be said for such a system. So, because there were 73 candidates in New South Wales in the elections in May 1974, I would not say that therefore we need to change the system or to frighten people off unduly. I think the core of this argument is whether the amount is unfair to the individual candidate. There is the old legal saw that hard cases make bad law. Let us not set up a situation that makes it difficult for an independent person who wishes to offer himself as a Senate candidate to nominate in an attempt to meet a situation which happened in New South Wales in May 1974 and which, I will be bold enough to predict, we will find will not happen in that proportion again, in spite of those who might think they have plenty of money and know how to defeat the electoral processes of the country. I do not think it will happen again- at any rate, to that extent. It will be seen in the years to come as being a unique occasion. In any case, I must say that I am delighted to see that in fact it did not have the effect it was intended to have, and it really only shows the strength of our present Senate election system. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 25 and 26- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 27. 
Section 85 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the words 'The application may be in the prescribed form and must-' and substituting the words 'The application shall be on a form issued under the authority of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer and specified by him, by notice in the Gazette, as being the form to be used in relation to the election to which the application relates, and shall-'; and 
by omitting sub-section (2a) and substituting the following sub-section: - '(2a) An application (other than an application made by the applicant in person at the office of the Divisional Returning Officer for the Division for which he is enrolled) shall be deemed not to have been duly made if it reaches the officer to whom it is made- 
where the officer is at a place in Australia- after 6 o'clock in the evening of the Thursday preceding polling day; or 
b ) where the officer is at a place outside Australia- after 6 o'clock in the evening of the Monday, reckoned according to the time applicable at that place, preceding the close of the poll.'. 
I seek leave to take together the 2 amendments appearing in my name in relation to clause 27. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In paragraph (c), omit 'and specified by him, by notice in the Gazette, as being', substitute ', being a form of a colour specified by him, by notice in the Gazette, as being the colour of. 
Omit paragraph (d). 
Although I have moved 2 amendments, they are concerned with the same matter of principle. Clause 27 has 4 parts to it. It deals with the 'substitution of metric measurements; it gives ah enrolled person who is in prison the right to vote even if his sentence is less than one year. The Opposition accepts those amendments as desirable. Clause 27 also provides that a postal vote application should be issued under the authority of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer on a form specified by him, by notice in the Gazette, as being the form to be used for the particular election. That provision appears to involve a gazettal each election in order to meet, it is suggested, some abuses. It is suggested that the activity of political parties preparing lists of electors who used postal voting facilities at earlier elections can lead to some sort of abuse. It is said that from these lists a great number of postal vote application forms- sometimes it runs into thousands in an electoral division- are partially completed well in advance of the next ensuing election and forwarded to those electors at or about the time of the issue of the writs without a precise knowledge of whether the persons concerned are in fact entitled to vote by post. It is said that that practice can lead to an abuse of the postal voting law and that it is undesirable. The Opposition questions in fact whether those assertions are right. The first amendment which I have moved proposes that there be one notice in the Gazette which will provide for different coloured forms being used to prevent a different gazettal at each election. If it is adopted that proposal will streamline matters considerably. 
The other amendment I have moved proposes to omit paragraph (d). That amendment is consequent on the decision that postal votes must be returned to the respective divisional returning officers by the close of the poll. That proposition is put forward simply in connection with the motion which was moved elsewhere and is in line with the Opposition's view that in a condition of compulsory voting there should be no restriction on the facilities that are provided and that therefore the cut-off time at the end of the polling day- be it 8 o'clock or 6 o'clock ultimately- will represent the end of the receipt of votes that can be included in the count. That, of course, is an important matter because there is not a great deal of time between the close of nominations and the polling day itself. 
The ballot papers cannot be printed until the names are in. The postal voting procedure is that an application is made for a postal vote. That application usually has to go through the mail and then it goes back to the office. It has to be dealt with. Then the ballot papers, if they are ready at that stage, are sent out. Then they have to be posted back. We believe the principle of dealing with all the procedures which are necessary and with people in remote regions in bad. There ought not to be that restriction. Clause 27 (d) is connected with those matters. That is the reason why I have moved those amendments which I have mentioned. I think the second amendment is the more substantial. I would be interested to hear whether the Minister is interested in accepting that amendment which I believe streamlines matters considerably. 
-Even voluntary voting will not do away with informal voting as I think was suggested by honourable members opposite a moment ago. Under the optional preference scheme for the Senate which existed from 1919 to 1931, informal voting throughout Australia was similar to what it is today. So, I do not think in these provisions we ought to be concentrating on improving the percentage of informal votes. In fact, I have a schedule- I will not bore the Committee by reading it- which indicates that percentage as pretty stable. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  mentioned that provisions in Britain were similar to this clause with respect to postal voting. He said that in Britain postal votes have to be in by the close of the polls. In Britain one can furnish a vote by proxy. I presume that the Minister is not for one moment thinking of introducing a proxy system into the Australian electoral system. What the Government would do by maintaining this provision would be to cut out a number of people who are at present able to register postal votes either because of delays in mail, because of remoteness, or because a person was ill and put off voting for a few days. The Government is shortening the length of these cut-off periods. That is to say, an application form cannot be issued after 6 p.m. on the Thursday preceding polling day. Another clause to which we will come soon provides that ballot papers cannot be counted if they are received after the end of polling day instead of, as is the case at the moment, 10 days after polling day. By doing this, the Government is disfranchising a significant number of people who have to use postal voting. Perhaps all these people do not have to use this method of voting. Perhaps to some it is convenient. But many people do need to use it. I think that people in the cities ought to remember the great remoteness of many people in this country. I will say more about the question of remoteness later in this debate. 
People in country areas ought to be assisted to cast their votes for the candidates of their choice rather than prevented from doing it. I do not think any of us ought to place complete confidence in the regularity of the mail service. I hope that we understand the tremendous task involved in sorting the mail, and that delays are taking place. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  at whom I am looking was talking about reality when we were dealing with another clause a short time ago. I am referring to reality now. If there is a 3-week period between the close of nominations and polling day and that procedure has to be gone through, many people will not be able to do it. 
-Did someone say 'rubbish'?  Mr Keogh-  Yes. 
-The fact of the matter is that some people cannot manage to do this within the period of the 10 days presently allowed, and now the Government intends to cut out that 10-day period. How does the honourable member think that people will be able to vote in the remote regions of the north-west of Western Australia, in the electorate of Grey and in north Queensland? The honourable member who interjected is a Queenslander. He ought to be trying to protect the rights of these people. How does the honourable member think that they will get postal votes in in time? I ask honourable members opposite to be sensible. We know that even with the period that is provided now some votes are received too late. So if the period is reduced by 10 days, which is nearly one-third of the total period from the close of the nominations to polling day, a great number of people will be cut out from voting. For the life of me I cannot see any valid justification for that. It must be a system that is being proposed for other purposes. I ask honourable members, particularly those who come from city electorates, to remember the distances and the procedures that are involved in postal voting before committing themselves to vote in favour of this clause. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 28. 
Section 88 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-section (1), after the words 'satisfied that it', the words 'is on the proper form,'; and 
by omitting sub-sections (1a) and (1b). 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: '28. Section 88 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), after the words "satisfied that it", the words "is on the proper form,".'. 
This is a consequential amendment. In view of the procedure being adopted in this debate, to which I referred earlier, I do not press the matter any further. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 28a. 
-I move: 
After clause 28, insert the following new clause: '28a. After section 88 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: "88a. (1) The Divisional Returning Officer for each Division that exceeds 26 000 square kilometres in area shall keep a register, to be called the Register of General Postal Voters. 
Where a person is enrolled as an elector for a Division referred to in sub-section (1), otherwise than by virtue of section 39a or 4 1a, and it is normally difficult for him to vote at a polling booth open in the State for which he is enrolled by reason of- 
the distance between the address in respect of which he is enrolled and the nearest place in the Division that is normally appointed a polling place; or 
the lack of adequate means of transport from that address to that place, he may at any time make an application in writing to the Divisional Returning Officer to be registered on the register for the Division. 
An application shall be signed by the applicant in his own handwriting and shall set out the name and address of the applicant and the grounds of the application. 
Upon receipt of the application, the Divisional Returning Officer shall- 
if he decides that the application is properly made and that there is sufficient reason for registering the applicant under this section- register the applicant; or 
b ) if he decides otherwise- reject the application, and shall notify the applicant in writing accordingly. 
Subject to sub-section (6), the Divisional Returning Officer may at any time cancel the registration of an elector under this section, and in that event (except where the elector is deceased) he shall notify the elector in writing. 
The Divisional Returning Officer is not empowered to register an elector or (except where the elector is deceased) cancel the registration of an elector under this section after 6 o'clock in the afternoon of the day of the issue of the writ, and before the close of the poll, for an election. 
An elector who is registered under this section is, by force of this section, but subject to Part VI and to the regulations, entitled to vote at an election in accordance with this Pan. 
As soon as practicable after the hour of nomination for an election the Divisional Returning Officer shall send a postal vote certificate and a postal ballotpaper or postal ballot-papers, as the case requires, to each elector who is registered on the register for the Division, other than an elector who has made an application under section 85.".'. 
By this amendment the Opposition proposes to add a new clause to the Bill. It refers to the difficulties I have just mentioned in a slightly different context. It refers to those people in remote areas and to the difficulty that they have in getting postal vote application forms and ballot papers in time and in having them returned so that their votes can be counted- in fact, so that these people can vote. I pointed out to the Committee that in electorates such as Kalgoorlie, Darling Downs, Kennedy, Leichhardt, Maranoa, Grey, Wakefield and the Northern Territory, a considerable body of people live in remote areas, and often journeys of hundreds of miles are involved in getting to polling booths. I believe, and the Opposition believes, that the remoteness of those people is such that special provision should be made in the electoral law to enable them to vote. So this amendment is moved. I shall refer to parts of it rather than read the whole for it is rather lengthy. It is a provision which exists in the State electoral law in Western Australia, a State with a high proportion of remote areas. 
The honourable member for Bowman is not really disclosing very much knowledge of that system because if I understood him, he referred to gerrymanders in Western Australia's electoral system. Was that the implication of your remark? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)Order!  I ask the honourable member to address the Chair. 
I will take your advice in that direction,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but I would be happy to debate the matter with the honourable member at any time he likes. What is suggested here is that the divisional returning officer for a division that exceeds 26 000 square kilometres shall keep a register to be called the 'Register of General Postal Voters', and such persons shall receive automatically application forms for postal votes. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  laughs. I do not know why because surely people who are in very remote regions are entitled to receive an application. After all, the mailman does not call twice a day at their front gate. They probably would have one chance, and one chance only, of registering a vote. 
From the interjections we have heard from members of the Labor Party, it is pretty clear that they are opposed to this in principle. Presumably it is because they think that these votes will not favour the Australian Labor Party. In other words, they are saying: 'Let us cut out a group because they are against us'. It does not matter that they are Australian citizens. It does not matter that they are fully entitled to vote. Honourable members opposite say: 'They are remote and we will try to prevent their vote being received at the polling place in time. ' The fact is that many remote areas are poorly serviced by electoral laws and procedures. I have already described, but it is appropriate to repeat briefly that the system is that application forms have to be filled out, returned, ballot papers posted out and received back at the counting place. The Opposition argues that these ballot papers should be allowed to come forward up to 10 days after polling day, as is the present position. 
The electorate of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  covers 900 000 square miles. I regret that I cannot convert that to square kilometres, but it is a vast area of land and there are a lot of people in it who need special consideration. I believe that remoteness is significant in the other electorates to which I have referred. These people must make a vote under the compulsory provisions of the Act, but it is more important than that. It is their right to cast a vote- a valid vote and an acceptable vote- if they possibly can. I have not any doubt that most of them want to do that. I have heard many complaints about procedures, particularly from those in the electorate of Kalgoorlie, but this is an important factor in South Australia and Queensland and the Northern Territory as well. I take this opportunity to make a plea to anyone who might be listening in these remote areas to do their best to get these votes in, even if it means considerable inconvenience in travelling to a booth because of the uncertainty of the mails. 
I will not read the whole of this proposed new clause. I repeat that it is operating satisfactorily and well in the electoral procedures and laws of Western Australia. Incidentally, for the sake of the honourable members who expressed some noise of scepticism, it has operated there under governments from both sides of the Western Australian House, It is acceptable and regarded as necessary by both sides, and the Opposition here tonight takes the opportunity of moving this amendment in an attempt to get the Government to recognise the value of this provision in the electoral law. 
-This clause amends section 89 of the Act to provide that a person is not entitled to inspect applications made under sub-section (3) for the purpose of compiling lists of the names of persons who have made postal vote applications. Under section 89 (3) as it now stands, applications for postal votes are open for public inspection from and including the third day after polling day. That provision currently is used by political organisations and candidates to make lists of all postal votes for use at later elections. It is proposed to prohibit the listing of names of persons who apply for postal votes, except where the Divisional Returning Officer is satisfied that it is required in connection with a genuine inquiry into possible malpractice. Of course, that narrows the provision a great deal. 
It is the view of the Opposition that the clause is intended to prevent persons from inspecting lists of those people who have applied for postal votes. Surely, in order to prevent abuse and to prevent parties from sending out unwanted postal vote applications, the change in the colour of the form that was suggested earlier by the Opposition should suffice. The Opposition does not accept the view that a question of abuse is involved. Surely there is no reason why somebody should not look up this information if he wants to. After all, this system should be as open as possible as part of our democratic system. If some people see fit to canvass others, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  mentioned earlier, or to approach them through this system, then I am afraid that the reason why that can be regarded as an abuse of the system eludes me. 
I know that in Western Australia- and I would be very surprised if it was not universal- it is availed of by most parties and used in the same way. I cannot believe that there has been much objection to the system. No question of coercion is involved. There is a question of canvassing; but that is part of politics, and it used to be more intense than it is today. 
The honourable member for Bowman says that it is coercion. If there is coercion I suggest that he report cases of it to the appropriate authorities and if offences have been committed no doubt action will be taken. I was accused earlier in the evening of having made innuendos about certain subjects. Here is a supporter of the Government complaining to me about abuses on which he has taken no action. I think I am entitled to assume from the way he is now trying to back off that he has not much evidence of what he has just said. Otherwise he surely would have done something about it because he is not noted in this chamber for drawing back or being a shrinking violet when he had anything hard to produce. The position is that this is a right which citizens have and they certainly include representatives and candidates of political parties. It has been open to all. There is no need to close it off and for that reason the Opposition is opposed to this clause. 
-The House has before it the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill, a Bill obviously designed to change the electoral laws significantly. I suppose some of the amendments could be referred to as amendments to tidy up the law and the procedures. Some of them have been considered by earlier Ministers responsible for the electoral laws of earlier governments. However the Bill certainly embodies important proposed changes. I believe that they are part of the continuing effort by the present Labor Government and the Minister in charge of electoral matters, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  to change the laws in favour of the Australian Labor Party. Australia was faced not very long ago with 4 referenda proposals which had the same objective. Although there were 4 proposals I think there were about 1 1 elements involved in those questions. The 4 proposals were all defeated by the Australian people. Those proposals were designed to keep the Australian Labor Party in o'ffice as long as possible. The people of Australia saw through those proposals, and I believe they will see through what is intended in this Bill, this proposed law. 
Around this building the Minister has a reputation for his electoral skills. I use the term somewhat loosely. There are many stories about his ability and about practices in ballots and elections in the Labor Party and in the country and about his involvement in various electoral phenomena. I also use that term loosely. So when we hear him talk later with sweet reasonableness, perhaps telling a few jokes and putting reasons for the amendments which are stated to be reasons of very high principle, we in this place at any rate, and I believe an increasing number of the Australian people, will know what value to place on what he says. 
The Opposition's shadow Minister in respect of these matters is  Senator Withers,  and I represent him in this place in these matters. He has empowered me to mention some things about the number of amendments which the Opposition will be moving to this Bill in the Committee stage. Those amendments will be moved in the Senate when the Bill, in whatever form, reaches it, if in fact they are not all accepted in this place. The Minister in charge of the Bill can make a great contest of this matter if he wishes and defeat those amendments. We will be dividing on them. But if there were any consideration of accepting some of the amendments, it occurs to me that this might be an appropriate time to consider them. I grant that the Minister has had an opportunity only since this morning of seeing these amendments. It may well be that because he needs more time with some of them it would be appropriate to adjourn this debate so far as the Committee stage is concerned. Of course, that is in his hands, because apart from being in charge of this legislation area he is also the Leader of the House. 
These amendments are seriously proposed. We consider them to be of great importance in our electoral system. When we reach the Committee stage I shall give some detail about them and about our reason for the amendments. In some cases I shall do this somewhat briefly, for example, in relation to those clauses with which we agree. We do not want to spend a lot of time on those aspects of the Bill with which both sides agree. The Committee debate will follow unless the Minister wishes to adjourn the matter in order to consider the Opposition's amendments. There are 47 amendments. Many of them are consequential. Most of them involve deletions of the proposed insertions into the law. So in that respect they are not very complicated. We are opposed to what it is suggested should be changed in the law. In most cases the change is proposed in order to help the Labor Party stay in power. Fairness is hardly the consideration. In fact, the Government has made -I shall come to this in a minute- most far-reaching changes. There is no need for such changes. By and large the law is fair to all. It has operated for many years. Parties on both sides of the House have won and lost elections under the existing method so the  system  cannot be too bad. It cannot require such far-reaching proposed changes. After all, the present Labor Government was elected at the last election on 49 per cent of the votes. 
I do not see that the Labor Party can make many justifiable complaints about the electoral law. Many of the amendments proposed are really the result of inquiries made during the period when the Ministers were  Mr Nixon  or  Mr Hunt.  Of course we will be accepting those amendments. It is the far-reaching proposals to which we take some objection. The present Opposition in both chambers will oppose the present Labor Government's attempt to introduce optional preferential voting, registration of political parties and alterations to the postal voting system. These proposed changes would disfranchise many voters without achieving any real benefits. For that reason the Opposition will oppose some clauses of the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill when they come before the Committee but it will support nearly twothirds of the 76 clauses in the Bill. 
-It is not a miracle at all; it is just plain common sense. I hope that if the honourable member has followed my argument so far he will agree with me. The Opposition in the Senate rejected the second reading of the Bill on 28 November last year. The joint Opposition Parties now have decided to move amendments in the Committee stage. If they are accepted we will support the Bill; if not we will oppose it. The Opposition has no objection to clauses in the Bill which remove anomalies and which encourage fairness at elections. We support proposals for mobile polling booths and a number of other changes which effectively improve the present laws. But some clauses of the proposed legislation, while they may be superficially attractive, will have the ultimate effect of denying voters their basic rights and heavily disadvantage minor parties and independent candidates. On the surface the proposal to register parties might appear to have some attraction, but when it is subjected to a closer scrutiny extensive effects are revealed which impinge on elections in Australia for our representative parliamentary democracy. 
The main argument in favour of registration of parties is that it will allow party designations to be printed on the ballot papers. How-to-vote cards already achieve that purpose without the great disadvantage which registration would impose. The net effect of registration as required by the Bill would be the perpetuation of the existing parties and the erection of a barrier to the formation of new parties. Surely the strengthening of the present major parties by the present parties is bad for the system. Large parties like the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party will have no difficulty meeting the requirements. Small parties which already exist and those which could be formed in the future will have great difficulty in securing registration. Yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in this House, as he has said many times, that he believes in a 2-party system like the British system.  His  likes and dislikes are not the issue. The British certainly do not have party designations on their ballot papers. Their system is flexible to the point where the present smallest party in the House of Commons was once the biggest. 
The proposed voting proposals would have the effect of denying many people their right to vote. The political effect of the proposals could only be to assist the Labor Party. I believe it is quite disgraceful to suggest removing rights such as postal voting. which are so basic to our system. Optional preferential voting is a clear attempt by the Labor Party to alter the system in its own favour. These amendments are plainly an attempt by the Australian Labor Party to stack the deck. The Labor Party insists on full preferential voting in its Caucus elections. I ask why that is. It is because the Labor Party believes this to be the most democratic method of choosing a ministry. It is the best and fairest system and it gives everyone a right to express a preference between the two most favoured candidates. Labor should provide the people with the same democracy as it requires in its internal affairs- there should not be' one law for the present Labor Government, which we might call the PLG, and another-for the people- but instead it is trying to entrench itself in government, on the pretext of making things simpler. Neither the Opposition nor the people will buy that sort of fiddle. 
I refer to the aspects which the Opposition is prepared to support. They represent more than 50 clauses of the Bill. They include provisions for mobile polling booths in hospitals, the prevention of the use of unacceptable names on ballot papers, an increase in deposits, the provision of a vote for persons serving a prison term of less than 12 months and control on the dissemination of misleading electoral material. The Opposition will move amendments to extend the right of a person to remain on an electoral roll should he be going overseas but intending to return. The proposed legislation gives this right to public servants only. We shall delete the prison terms of less than 3 months which the proposed Bill provides. The Opposition believes that any offence carrying a maximum penalty of less than 3 months is better dealt with by a fine. 
However, we will oppose clause 21 which relates to the registration of political parties. The Opposition's basic attitude is that every citizen has the right to form a political party and every citizen has the right to contest an election. While the proposal for registration and subsequent inclusion of a political party's identification on a ballot paper may seem superficially attractive, the legislation as it stands will involve a number of inequities. It will act to the great advantage of large parties but it will severly inhibit the growth of new ones. The Bill requires a party to nominate candidates in at least a quarter of the seats contested in any one State. That would mean that a party would have to contest 12 electorates in New South Wales in order to be registered. This would effectively affect the development of new parties and would disadvantage existing small parties. The clause contains a strong 'catch 22 ' element which strongly favours the status quo. 
Clauses 27 to 32 deal with postal voting. The Opposition believes that if voting is to be compulsory electors should be given every opportunity to have their votes counted. Postal votes are the only way by which many ill people, travellers or people living in remote areas can vote. The Opposition believes that the existing postal voting procedures are basically satisfactory. Any possible abuses can be avoided by requiring a different coloured form to be used from election to election. The Opposition will move an amendment to that effect in the Committee stage. The Government's proposals require postal votes to be lodged no later than the close of the poll. This would replace the present 10-day delay from the close of poll to the counting of postal votes. It would effectively disfranchise anyone whose vote was held up by the Government's erratic postal system. It would disfranchise those who did not submit their postal votes several days before the poll. The sick, the infirm and the traveller would be denied their right to exercise a vote. 
Clause 39 proposes to reduce polling hours from the existing period from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. to a period from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. As computers are now being used to process results, the current voting time should not cause any technical difficulties. The Opposition believes that, if people are forced to vote, they should be given as much time as possible to do so. Clauses 45 to 48 refer to optional preference. The Opposition believes that the present voting system has proved to be fair and just. If voting is to be compulsory the voters should register all their choices. I have referred to some reasons and I will refer to others when these clauses are debated in Committee. Sub-clause 6(a) deals with redistribution. It provides for any surveyor to be appointed to a redistribution commission regardless of his political ties. The Opposition believes that the States ' SurveyorsGeneral or a person with similar qualifications should be the person designated to sit on a redistribution commission, as the present Act requires. For the recent redistribution there seems to have been no difficulty in meeting the present requirement of the Act. In any case, the proposed boundaries are there for all to see. 
I want to mention, too, because this is a rare occasion on which to raise these matters, in reasonably soft tones what I regard as some strange incidents which have come to my attention in the course of recent elections. In Western Australia we have seen several things of note happen: Firstly, the rather unusual circumstances surrounding the appointment of the Western Australian commissioners; secondly, the results of the boundaries of a special redistribution in Western Australia in which the Government gained nearly 60 per cent of the seats on 44 per cent of the votes. It was only 12 votes away from obtaining 60 per cent of the seats. Thirdly, in a count of the votes for the seat of Stirling- which, as honourable members will be aware, ran to within a margin of 12 votes- we saw a recount discovering that many votes or one or two more in ballot papers which up to then had been counted a number of times. I was present at the table as one of the two scrutineers when those votes were discovered. In one ballot box 1 1 1 votes were found in one bundle that was supposed to contain 100 and 97 in the other that was supposed to contain 100. That gave a net result of 14. Since the original phoned in, figures were correct and those votes counted in the divisional office were incorrect it was a stra'nge 'proceeding. I repeat that the ballot papers were supposed to have been counted several times. T am not sure how many times they were counted but it was probably four or five times in practice:1  
I refer also to the refusal of the opportunity to scrutineer a recount of the Western Australian Senate votes in spite of the fact that that count was carried over many days making it impracticable for any party to have it scrutineered- there were also many complaints from electoral officers that they were tired and working under difficult conditions- and in spite of the fact that a recount was allowed at an earlier Senate election for an objecting Australian Labor Party candidate, when the percentage difference was greater than was the case in the last Western Australian Senate election. That indicates to me and, I think, to any fair minded person- I am trying to be reasonably restrained in making these remarks- a certain pattern of events which I hope will not recur, because if it does or if anyone wants to debate it in more detail I will come into this House and debate it point by point. I have given only a general outline. I think it is proper to do so because it indicates some pattern which could be unfavourable. 
I now return to the provisions of the Bill. Many of them are far reaching and aimed at keeping the present Labor Government in office. I remind the House and the Australian people that both sides have been elected under the existing electoral law. There is no justification for the present extreme proposals to change the existing electoral laws and procedures. 
I move: 
After clause 29, insert the following new clause: 29a. Section 90 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), after the words 'each postal vote certificate', the words ', other than a certificate referred to in sub-section ( 1a),'; and 
by inserting after sub-section ( 1 ) the following subsection: (1a) The Divisional Returning Officer shall mark each postal vote certificate issued under section 88a in the manner prescribed. '. '. 
This amendment is consequential upon amendment 2 1 which we debated earlier. I do not propose to say more than that- 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clauses 30 and 3 1- by leave-taken together. 
-This is a matter relating to the postal votes which we debated to some extent earlier. The main clause, which is clause 30, seeks to omit a sub-section of section 92. The effect of the amendment will be that a postal voter will no longer be able to post or deliver his postal vote to a divisional returning officer other than the divisional returning officer for the division in respect of which he is enrolled. I think it is pointed out in the memorandum that it would create delay if the new proposal were incorporated into the Act, that is, that postal votes cannot be counted if they are received after the close of polling on polling day. I referred to that situation in an earlier debate. It is the strong view of the Opposition that the present situation should remain- that 10 days after polling closes is an acceptable period for a postal vote to be received and counted. The arguments used in favour of this are consequent upon the change which the Government proposes. In our view it is an undesirable change. We oppose this clause believing that all divisions should be capable of receiving postal votes for other divisions; that it is part of the facilities, the rights, and the convenience that should be allowed to citizens; that to pass this clause will again increase the postal votes which will be invalid because they cannot be included in the count; and that it will deny the opportunity to electors to have their votes recorded. Clause 31 is consequential and I will not add to it. 
-Clause 32 is the one which had led to some debate on the postal voting procedure, but the matter is really so important that it must be gone over clearly in the context of this proposed section. The present system whereby a period of grace of 10 days after polling day is allowed for the receipt of postal votes by the relevant divisional returning officer of votes posted direct to him is seen by the Government as a major problem, especially in 
Senate elections where under the proportional respresentation system the quota for an election cannot be determined nor can the counting progress until the exact number of formal votes is known. That is understandable because that is part of the proportional representation system which, as I say, was brought into the Parliament by the Chifley Government. The Government has indicated that at the last Senate election the quota was not known until more than 2 weeks after polling day and therefore senators could not be elected until 3 weeks after polling day. 
The Government's argument in respect of this clause and a number of others- those relating to postal votes and those relating to other matters, such as the reduction in the hours of polling and in other procedures- is that they are all aimed at getting a quicker result. We believe that there may be other unstated objectives than that; but let me deal with that matter. Surely it is more important to provide reasonable opportunities for Australians to vote than to get a quick result and surely it is more important to get an accurate result than to have speed as the major objective. Earlier a supporter of the Government seemed to be indicating that he thought that the result of an election should be known within a matter of four or five hours after polling ceases. That may be desirable to him. I think that the system in Australia, and in other countries in our situation in which government is handed over freely and constitutionally and in which the result of an election may not be known for some days, is one that can be easily accepted if one gets an accurate result, a true reflection of what the people want, and one makes reasonable provision for the people to vote. After all we have a compulsory system of voting which surely means that the Government and, indeed, the Parliament should be providing for conditions that make it reasonably easy for people either to vote under compulsion or to exert their rights as they happen to see the situation. 
This clause provides that only postal votes received up to the close of the poll should be counted. The Government seeks to provide under this Bill that the poll close at 6 p.m. instead of 8 p.m. We believe that that is an unnecessary restriction. I have already mentioned that. The Government is also wanting to restrict the time in which postal votes can be received. That is a very important restriction because although 10 days may seem to be a long time to some and a short time to others there is often only about 21 days between the closing of the calling of nominations and polling day itself and, as I have said, the applications have to be made out and lodged and the ballot papers have to be printed and sent out in response to those applications. They have to go out in the mail to the people for filling in and sending back. That takes time. To try to squeeze that procedure into a period of less than 21 days- perhaps three or four days- is quite unreasonable. We believe that the present period of 10 days is the best solution. In fact, not a great number of seats is left swinging in the balance because of postal voting although there are certainly some. In the last election there were some, but that did not affect the functioning of the Government. It rarely will. In any case there is a well established constitutional practice under our system, which we inherited from the British, for the outgoing government to continue to governperhaps it can get a new commission as a caretaker government; that can happen under certain conditions- until the incoming government is ready to take over. The important thing, surely, is to ensure that the people who live in remote areas. those who are ill and those who are travelling have a fair opportunity to lodge a vote and then have it counted and not treated as invalid and ruled out of order. That is our substantial objection to this provision. 
Earlier I referred to the deadline for application for postal votes and to one or two connected provisions. These provisions could result in a significant number of postal voters being disenfranchised. The number could be checked easily. I have no doubt that records are kept of the number of postal votes received. One could check on what percentage of people will be disenfranchised by such a change in the law. What is the purpose of it really? It cuts out people who should be able to vote. It does not improve procedures or the effect of procedures very much at all. One honourable member in discussing this matter on an earlier clause said, when commenting on my remarks about people in remote regions: 'After all, they have plenty of notice'. That is what he said. If he does not recall it, he may read it in Hansard. It is not a question of notice. 
I am talking about the honourable member. It is a question of people having the ballot papers in their hands and getting them back to the polling booths. It is not a question of how much notice they have. That is the position. It may not occur in Port Adelaide. As a matter of fact it does not occur in my electorate but it occurs in many important regions of Australia. Really the arguments that the honourable member for Port Adelaide used just disclose a very partisan outlook. What I am saying is that remoteness is an important exception to make. Registers are not needed for all the other areas or fields to which the honourable member referred- certainly everyone would agree vith that- but there is a need for some recognition of the difficulty some people have in casting valid votes. Several of the provisions of the Bill mitigate against that, and one can only think that they deliberately do so, on the ground that somehow or other it will help the counting. The counting is important. It is important to have it reasonably efficient, but it is more important that people should have a reasonable chance to cast their votes and to have them counted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Arm it age)  - Order! Does the honourable member wish to move an amendment? I do not think I heard him do so. 
-You are quite right,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I formally move. 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: '32. Section 96 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after the word 'ballot-papers' (first occurring) the words 'and all applications for registration under section 88A '; and 
by omitting from paragraphs (a) and (b) the words 'application for the certificate' and substituting the words 'relevant applications.'. 
-The Government proposes by clause 38 that in the House of Representatives election a draw be made by the divisional returning officer to determine the order in which the names of candidates are to be printed on the ballot papers. Such a draw would eliminate the deliberate selection of candidates whose surnames begin with a letter high in the alphabet so as to gain political advantage over the other candidates. The Opposition opposes this clause. We recognise that some argument can be made in favour of it, but we think on balance that the method of listing the candidates alphabetically which is in operation at present -it has been in operation, as far as I know, since the beginning of the Federation- is the best method and ought to be retained. The Government Party has a disposition to believe that all change represents reform. In its view the number of Bills dealt with by the Parliament represents the amount of good work being done, and that the number of words spoken and so on represents progress. So it is, I think, with this clause. The Government regards it as a reform because present arrangement is to be changed. I think the results of our elections show that people have enough intelligence to determine which candidates on the ballot paper they want. I have referred to the particularly low percentage of invalid votes. It is pretty clear that the number of votes that a candidate and a party get are rather closely related to polls which are taken, and we think that the present system at least is one to which people are accustomed. There is some certainty about it. It removes the lottery element, to which I know members of the Labor Party were very much opposed in another connection some while ago. There is no need for this change to take place. 
Another proposal in this clause relates to candidates who see fit to change their name shortly before an election and presumably use that name to give them some advantage or perhaps even to embody a slogan. I think that has happened in one or two cases. In any case, we agree with what the Government proposes in the relevant parts of clause 38, and the amendment which I propose to move maintains them. I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 106 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after paragraph (b) the following paragraph: - (ba) where a candidate has specified a former name or former names in a declaration made in pursuance of sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 73, the former name or former names shall be printed after the name of that candidate; '; and 
by omitting from paragraph (d) the words 'except as otherwise provided by the regulations,'.". 
Those parts of the clause as proposed by the Government are in effect reinstated by the amendment I have moved, but the other part has been deleted. 
-I will be very brief. One need only ask why someone whose name is drawn out of the hat and is placed on the top of the ballot paper should have the same advantage as a person whose name is placed on the top of the ballot paper because of the alphabetical system. I did not say that there was not an advantage to be gained by a candidate's name being on top of the ballot paper; I am talking about the order in which the names are placed on the ballot paper. I am saying that it is six of one and half a dozen of the other. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 39 (The polling). 
-This clause seeks to reduce the duration of polling from 12 hours to 10 hours. It seeks to close polling booths at 6 p.m. instead of 8 p.m. I suppose there is not a great deal to be said on this, except that it will restrict the hours of voting for people who are obliged by legislation to vote. We think the change ought not to be made because electors should be given as much chance as possible to lodge their vote at polling places. Some people will be inconvenienced. I think all members of the House know that many people vote between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. They also know that some people, because of their religious beliefs, do not wish to vote when the sun is up. We think that in this pluralistic society that consideration ought to be weighed also. I do not think the people to whom I have referred are insignificant in number and therefore should be expected to lodge a postal vote, particularly under the proposed restricted facilities for postal votes. But I repeat that because they have the right to vote and ought to vote and also because they are compelled to vote under law, the 12-hour voting period ought to be maintained. The Opposition opposes this clause which seeks to reduce the polling period from 12 hours to 10 hours. 
I move: 
In proposed new section 113A(5)(b), omit '6', substitute '8'. 
This clause is consequential upon the earlier clause. I have formally moved the amendment and I will not further add to it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 41 agreed to. 
Clause 42. 
Section 1 15 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsections: 
1 ) The presiding officer- 
shall put to every person claiming to vote ( not being an elector enrolled by virtue of section 4 1  a)  the following questions: - 
Is your real place of living within the Division of (here state the name of the Division in respect of which the elector claims to vote )? 
(if the question numbered (i) is answered in the negative)- Was your real place of living at any time within the last 3 months within the Division of (here state the name of the Division in respect of which the elector claims to vote )? 
may, and at the request of any scrutineer shall, also put to any person claiming to vote all or any of the following questions: - 
Have you already voted either here or elsewhere in this election (or in these elections, as the case requires)? 
Are you of the full age of 1 8 years? 
Have you the status of a British subject? 
Are you qualified to vote? and 
-Clause 45 concerns the proposed optional preference voting system and, of course, is a major and some would say the major proposal contained in this Bill. The Opposition is strongly of the view that it ought not to be imposed on the people of Australia. Many of the arguments, of course, have been canvassed in this debate and on other occasions. I believe that a full preferential system is the fairest. It is a simple system but it is the fairest because every voter has the opportunity to express a preference between the 2 most favoured candidates. Unless one candidate receives half of the votes to begin preferences must be distributed. They are distributed and candidates are eliminated until someone has a majority. In many cases those receiving fewer votes are eliminated before the determination between the 2 most favoured candidates is arrived at. 
Every voter in an election under our present system has a say in that final decision. I know that points can be made for and against all voting and counting systems but on balance this is a simple system. It is a system which we have had for a long time and, I believe, it has produced the best results. The Opposition opposes this clause which in effect establishes the optional preference system as a method for marking ballot papers for Senate elections and House of Representatives elections. It is difficult to follow the arguments that are put by the Government in this matter. I listened to the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the second reading debate a few hours ago. He made as many misrepresentations as he could in favour of his case. But surely we must ask ourselves: Why is change necessary? What is the motive behind this proposed change of the Government. We know that it is not very long ago the Australian Labor Party had a different policy. Its policy was first past the post voting. Many people believe that the system proposed now by the Government comes very close to first past the post voting. Many believe that this proposal is a step along the way. That system is quite unfair. The people of Australia realised it was unfair. First past the post voting was apparently dropped from the Australian Labor Party policy when it was realised that it was unacceptable to the Australian people. 
The Government has now suggested a compromise. Why is it necessary? Why do we need these far-reaching changes to the voting system and to the counting system. Is the present system so unjust? After all, the Government was elected twice in recent years under the present system. Both sides of the House have been elected under the present system. It cannot be too unjust or too unfair or obviously that result would not have been achieved. In fact, the present Labor Government won the last election with 49 per cent of the votes of this country. The Government has sometimes attempted to argue that this proposal will result in a quicker count. There cannot be any quickness about the Senate count which is where the greater amount of time is taken. After all, for most House of Representatives seats the number of candidates is relatively small and the time taken for the count, relatively speaking, is usually quite short. Then again, the people are forced to vote. I believe that it is their right to vote and that it should be availed of by them. Nevertheless, the high percentage of voters is the result of the compulsion on them. A small fine for not voting achieves a 92 per cent or 93 per cent vote in most areas. 
This system has been operating for some time. I see no need to change it. It is simple. The intelligence of the Australian people is such that they are able to number ballot papers in many cases from one to three or from one to four. What happened in the Senate at the last Federal election has been cited as though it will become a regular feature of elections. I am sure that it is not. I refer to the fact that in New South Wales there were 73 candidates on the ballot paper for the last Senate election. The vast majority of people not only followed the ballot paper to the end accurately but clearly expressed their choice. I would like anyone to tell me if he thinks the result was any different from what was expected from an analysis of the polls. I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide whether the result of the election was any different from what he expected a few days before the election. I believe, and I understand that most Australians whose view can be interpreted from the gallup polls on the subject also believe that the preference system of voting is the better one, the fairer one and the simpler one. 
Indeed, I notice that the instructions that are given on how to vote in the proposed scheme are far more complicated than those in the scheme that we have at present. I will perhaps come to that later on in an amendment. There are almost twice as many words and it is much more difficult to follow. I suppose that this will be a feature of it and that people who go through it for the first time will have to try to unravel it. But informal votes, a feature of the proposed system which has been emphasised by the Prime Minister, were equally as high in the Senate when voting was voluntary. So if that is any criterion we cannot expect the percentage of informal votes to drop very much. The low percentages of informal votes at the moment are remarkably good. They are the result of the literacy in this country and, I think, the people's intelligence and understanding of the political process. It is fair enough to make things as simple as possible, but I think it is somewhat insulting to assume that the matter can be simplified further to include the votes of a significant number of people who supposedly are not casting valid votes at present. 
I am sure that many honourable members have scrutineered election counts, not in elections at which they have been candidates but at other elections. They will know that a high percentage of informal votes come from blank ballot papers. So, clearly people have either given up or wilfully put them in the ballot box in that way. It is their right to do so if they wish, but it does not indicate to me that such people cannot understand the system. It may indicate that they do not wish to co-operate. We have all spoken to enough people in our electorates to know that there are a percentage of such people about. The Opposition believes that this move would be a retrograde step. It does not help. It is suggested that there are other motives behind it, but I will not go into that on this occasion. I merely express the Opposition 's opposition to the proposal. 
-I move: 
Omit paragraphs (c) and (d). 
Sub-clauses (a) and (b) of this clause provide that sub-sections ( 1 ) and (2 ) of section 1 64 of the Act do not operate 'after the close of the poll' rather than 'the return of the writs', as at present. The Opposition agrees with that. Sub-clauses (c) and (d) remove the need for each article, report, letter, etc., published in a newspaper to be signed by the author when the newspaper contains a statement that the editor or proprietor will accept responsibility. The Opposition believes that each writer should be responsible for his writings. It is a simple question of putting the responsibility properly where it lies. The amendment seeks to confine it to the writer. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 58 to 60- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 61. 
Section 170 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the table and substituting the following table: - 

<graphic href="094131197504105_96_0.jpg"></graphic>

Your vote must be made by placing consecutive numbers, beginning with the number 1, in the squares opposite the names of candidates so as to indicate the candidates for whom you vote and the order of your preferences for them. You must indicate the order of your preference for at least [here to be printed number of candidates to be elected] candidates. You may, if you wish, indicate the order of your preference for an additional candidate or candidates. 
This means that you must use all the numbers [here to be printed 1,2, and so on up to the number of candidates to be elected] but may use additional consecutive numbers. 

<graphic href="094131197504105_96_0.jpg"></graphic>

I move: 
In the second column of proposed table, omit 'Fine not exceeding $100 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 1 month', first appearing, substitute 'Fine not exceeding $100'. 
In the second column of proposed table, omit 'Fine not exceeding $100 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 1 month', second appearing substitute 'Fine not exceeding $100'. 
These 2 amendments seek to amend the proposed increases in penalties by removing the punishment of a prison sentence for electoral offences where that sentence is less than 3 months. The Opposition believes that a fine is a sufficient penalty for these relatively minor electoral offences. We believe that it is outdated and unnecessary to imprison persons for these offences. It is with that in mind that I moved the amendments which have the effect of removing any possibility of a prison sentence for persons committing these electoral offences. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 62 to 64- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 65. 
The Schedule to the Principal Act is amended by omitting Forms A to F (inclusive) and substituting the following forms:- 
FORME Section 104(1) 
Ballot-Paper 
I move: 
In proposed Form Eomit 
Your vote must be made by placing consecutive numbers, beginning with the number 1, in the squares opposite the names of candidates so as to indicate the candidates for whom you vote and the order of your preferences for them. You must indicate the order of your preference for at least [here to be printed number of candidates to be elected] candidates. You may, if you wish, indicate the order of your preference for an additional candidate or candidates. 
This means that you must use all the numbers [here to be printed 1, 2, and so on up to the number of candidates to be elected] but may use additional consecutive numbers. substitute- Mark your vote on this ballot-paper by placing the numbers [ here insert 1, 2, and so on, as the case requires] in the squares immediately to the left of the names of the respective candidates so as to indicate the order of your preference for them. 
In proposed Form Fomit 
Your vote must be made by placing the number 1 in the square opposite the name of the candidate for whom you vote as your first preference. 
*If you so desire, you may, in addition, indicate the order of your preference for an additional candidate or candidates by using other numbers in numerical order beginning with the number 2. [*To be included only where there are more than two candidates.] substitute- 
Mark your vote on this ballot-paper by placing the numbers [here insert "1 and 2" where there are two candidates, "1,2 and 3 " where there are three candidates, "1,2,3 and 4" where there are four candidates, and so on .as the case requires] in the squares respectively opposite the names of the candidates so as to indicate the order of your preference for them. 
Once again these are' consequential amendments and I will not speak to them. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 66 to 76- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
-I move: 
In Schedule l.Omit- 
Section 109(1) . . Omit 'Ten dollars', substitute '$100 or imprisonment for 1 month'. 
Substitute- Section 109(1) . . Omit 'Ten dollars', substitute '$100'. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a study been carried out of the effects to taxpayers of amending the law to provide for the lodging of joint returns by married couples, or by families, after providing lower rates of income tax. 
) If so, what is the result of that inquiry. 
If not, will he have the matter examined, and advise the result. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he had an inquiry conducted into the effects on taxpayers of providing for a standard deduction to replace in certain circumstances, present concessional deductions, as provided for under the United States income tax law. 
If so, what is the result of that inquiry. 
If not, will he have the matter examined, and advise the result. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Postmaster-General or his predecessors examine the many representations that there should be a single telephone directory for Western Australia and not one for Perth and others for other regions in Western Australia. 
If so, what were the findings of the most recent examination. 
What was the saving and precisely how was this calculated. 
How many pages in the Perth and other Western Australian directories, including covers, (a) advertise Post Office facilities and (b) repeat instructions within a single directory and repeat them throughout the directories. 
What would be the estimated saving if the yellow pages were made a separate volume, supplied on request, and a West Australian directory without advertising by the Post Office or anyone else was compiled, eliminating a generous allocation of space for instructions as occurs on page SOS and repeated on page 741, and page 740 and consolidating instructions and information in. the first pages as is now presently done, and what would be the resultant saving in pages. 
How many enquiry calls are received per annum for telephone numbers within a State but outside the region covered by the telephone directory for that region. 
7 ) Why is most of the general information put in the front of the directory but the postcode listing at the back. 
Why is the index for the yellow pages at the back and not the front. 
9 ) Is the layout of the telephone dirctory a bit of a j urnble 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Does he have information to confirm or deny the presence in the Indian Ocean of an increase in the U.S.S.R. Indian Ocean fleet involving the helicopter carrier 'Leningrad' carrying Ml-8 helicopters and capable of operating attack aircraft, a C-Class nuclear-powered submarine armed with long-range SSN-7 missiles which have a nuclear warhead capacity, a V-Class nuclear-powered hunter-killer submarine, intelligence gathering vessels, minesweepers, a tug, a replenishment ship and a space research ship. 
Do these vessels constitute an increase in the U.S.S.R. fleet. 
What other vessels of the U.S.S.R. is he aware of in the Indian Ocean at present. 
1 ) and (2) Units of the Soviet Navy as described by the honourable member have all been in the Indian Ocean at one time or another, whether on task (as is the case of the minesweepers) or in transit from Europe to the Far East (as is the case of the submarines mentioned by the honourable member). The helicopter cruiser 'Leningrad' completed a three month deployment in the Indian Ocean in October 1974, and has since returned to the Mediterranean. No information is available of any Soviet attack aircraft capable of operating from the 'Leningrad'. Some of the other vessels mentioned are in the Indian Ocean at the present time. There has been no occasion when all of the vessels in the honourable member's list were in the Indian Ocean simultaneously and the question whether they would constitute an increase in the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean is accordingly hypothetical. On the whole, however, there has been little substantial change in the number of Soviet Navy vessels in the Indian Ocean. It needs to be recognised that the number of Soviet vessels fluctuates and reaches peaks when, for instance, a number of vessels are in transit and additional minesweepers are on task. 
The answer to Parliamentary Question 1524 of 12 November 1974, which appeared in Hansard on 5 December 1974, pages 4727-4728 provided a monthly breakdown of Soviet vessels in the Indian Ocean from August 1973 to 18 November 1974. The following figures update this breakdown to the end of February 1975. The November breakdown includes a cruiser and a nuclear powered submarine which entered the Indian Ocean after 18 November. 
-As the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, the Bill and the amendments before us refer, firstly, to the provisions relating to oaths and affirmations. The other aspects of the Bill have already been agreed to. The Bill was introduced originally into the Senate; it came to this chamber, it went back to the Senate and it is now back here. The dispute which exists concerns clauses relating to the requirement for public servants to take an oath or make an affirmation of allegiance. These provisions were originally contained in the Public Service Act and were removed in 1973. The Liberal-Country Party Opposition has made several attempts to have those provisions reinserted. The Opposition strongly believes that they should be there, for reasons which have been recounted in many debates in the past. A stalemate has been reached in the sense that the Senate has again put these amendments to us and the Government has indicated that it will not accept them. The Minister said so a moment ago, and in a previous speech he said: 'I reiterate the Government's opposition to any change'. 
So the Liberal and Country Parties, realising the need to have the other provisions passed, have decided not to press the amendments further. The Opposition believes that it has done its best to amend the Act and that the matter, while important, is not crucial to Australia. The Opposition has attempted several times to have the provisions requiring public servants to take an oath or make an affirmation reinserted. As the amendments will not be passed by the Housethe Government has indicated it will not pass them- this will have the effect of reinstating the original provisions. The Opposition has decided that, as the Government will not agree to the amendments, the Opposition will not delay further the proposed legislation by adhering to its firm point of view. Therefore, the Opposition will not vote for the amendments again. At the same time, however, the Opposition makes clear its policy to the Public Service and to the Australian people- that on return to government we will have the oath and affirmation clauses reinserted in the Public Service Act. Those public servants employed since 1973 who have not already sworn an oath or made an affirmation will be required to do so. 
Finally, the Minister mentioned a moment ago the need for speed, as referred to in the earlier speech in which it was requested that the Bill be passed by the Parliament without delay. I simply place on record these facts: We were available on 5 March; it was the Government which decided that Parliament should go into recess for a month. We are now in the second week of this sitting. If the legislation was so urgent, it could have been dealt with earlier. 
Amendments disagreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) agreed to: 
That  Mr Daly, Mrs Child  and the mover be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreement to the amendments of the Senate. 
I compliment the committee on the speed with which it prepared that report and put it to the House. 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) agreed to: 
That the Committee's reasons be adopted. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the agreement made with the People's Republic of China with respect to the sale by Australia of wheat. 
Has a firm price been set for each year; if not, how is it to be reckoned from time to time. 
What was the quantity of wheat to be sold under the agreement or understanding. 
How much wheat is involved each year. 
5 ) Is the wheat to be made available in set quantities or in set prices; if not, how is it to be made available. 
Is there any formal agreement, exchange of letters or other understanding; if so, what is the content. 
Is Australia obligated to supply wheat to China before other countries in the event of the Chinese requesting it. 
Is China obligated to take wheat off Australia up to certain limits in particular years; if so, in which years, and what quantities are involved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the call by  Mr Laurie  Short, Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers' Association, for a national conference with Federal union leaders so that the Prime Minister can explain his new-found theories on wages and inflation. 
If so, what is his attitude to this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to a question without notice on 16 October 1974 (Hansard, page 2391) in which he stated that he has been adopting a much tougher line in negotiations with the drug manufacturers than his predecessor, (a) what are examples of his successes, (b) what was the proportion of purchases from drug manufacturers where Australian prices were double the prices in other countries, (c) what was the comparative prices table set out by the Department of Health in evidence to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits appointed in 1970, and (d) what are the comparable figures for the items in this table for each of the years since its compilation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is there a very serious downturn in private sector investment. 
Does the Government agree that economic recovery must be based on an upturn in investment and not a consumer boom. 
Is it a fact that the accelerated depreciation allowance terminates in June and therefore is not a factor in longerterm investment decisions. 
Will he give consideration immediately to introducing an investment allowance as proposed by the Opposition parties. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he or the Minister for Foreign Affairs received representations from lawyers in Austraia relating to the imprisonment in Indonesia, apparently without trial, of the Indonesian lawyer and Director of Indonesia's Legal Aid Institute,  Mr Adnun  Buyung Nasution. 
Has he or the Minister for Foreign Affairs made any request to the Indonesian Government relating to the imprisonment of  Mr Nasution. 
If so, when was the request made, and how, and what reply was received. 
Have any inquiries as to  Mr Nasution  's position been made; if so, what reply has been received. 
If the Government has not made any request at the apparent imprisonment of  Mr Nasution  without trial, will it now do so. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he tell a press conference on 18 February 1975 that the Cabinet Expenditure Committee had scrutinised the prospects of expending the full amount allocated for some programs. 
If so, to which programs was he referring. 
Has the Committee decided to defer any programs; if so, which ones. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What has been the result of the study of the opinions of the individual Judges of the International Court of Justice as a result of Australia 's reference relating to atmospheric tests in the South Pacific by France. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his predecessor's press release of 2 1 December 1974, what are the grounds for the belief that the case Australia put to the International Court of Justice influenced the French Government's decision to discontinue atmospheric nuclear testing in the South Pacific. 
Is it a fact that the French testing had reached a stage of technology where underground testing was sufficient for the purposes of the French Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has the Government recently made a decision to raise the yearly subscription rate for Hansard of the Senate and House of Representatives from$ 1 . 20 to $63. 1 0 per annum. 
If so, on what date was this decision made, and why was it made. 
Is the availability of Hansard at low cost considered to be highly desirable as pan of our representative parliamentary democracy. 
Does the decision imply a cessation of his proclaimed objectives of open government; if not, what does open government mean. 
If the Minister or the Government did not make the decision, will the Minister take action to have it reversed. 
I rise on a point of order,  Mr Speaker. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister under the special provision in standing order 144 which asks for explanation of government policy. By way of preface I refer to a recent statement by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  who stated: ... it is perfectly clear that in the near future- in the next few years- the Australian Government will have to come to the assistance of the general insurance companies which already are in serious difficulties because of their commitments to workers compensation insurance and, to a  lesser extent, their commitments in the field of third part)' motor vehicle insurance. 
I ask the Prime Minister to confirm whether that is Government policy. Will he elaborate on the policy involved? How can it be that these companies can be so wealthy and yet will need government assistance? 
-The speech just delivered by the Minister in charge of electoral laws, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  was not, as listeners would know, a dispassionate, rational view of electoral laws and the amendments proposed by the Government in the Bill. It was a very partisan speech. I think he displayed, by his demeanour and tone, the partisan attitude which he takes on behalf of the Australian Labor Party to this Bill and to the amendments made by the Senate. He spoke of the unceremonious defeat of the original Bill in 1974, without explaining that it was rammed through this House, that little time was given to the Senate to consider its far reaching provisions and that it was one of a number of far reaching Bills which had to be considered in that week. So the Opposition had to deal with it in short order. He did not explain that we went into the amendments which we proposed to the Bill in great detail both in this House and subsequently in the Senate when the Bill was re-presented. 
He said that I produced, on behalf of the Opposition, at the eleventh hour, as he put it, 47 amendments to the Bill. What a misrepresentation that was, and it was only one of many. Those 47 amendments were put to the Government in the same way as amendments are put to this House by the Government and the Opposition each time that amendments are proposed -namely, when the Committee stage of the Bill is reached. I invite the Leader of the House to adjourn debate of the Bill until there is time for the amendments to be considered by him. I had hoped that he might take a reasonable approach to some of the amendments- if not all of themand that he might agree to some of them. But he went on implacably. The reason he went on implacably was that, taken as a whole, the Bill without the amendments is highly favourable to one Party in this Parliament- the Australian Labor Party. It is a partisan Bill, in the main, and of course the Opposition will contest it. 
A number of amendments to which the Opposition agreed were referred to somewhat briefly by the Minister. I invite him to introduce a Bill containing only those amendments so that we get improvements in the law which are agreed to by both sides of the Parliament. After all, surely there is something to be said, in matters affecting the electoral laws, of an endeavour to get all parties to agree to amendments and not have this confrontation and these arguments backwards and forwards in which the Minister indulges. He takes the attitude 'take it or leave it; this is what we want'. I should like to examine quickly some of the points involved. Although the Minister had unlimited time in which to canvass these matters I have very limited time. The Minister said that the existing laws helped to keep the Australian Labor Party out of office. Of course, it was elected under those laws in the 1972 election and again in the 1974 election so the laws cannot be so very biased. In his speech the Minister referred to reform. That is a matter of definition. It is apparently reform if it helps the Austraiian Labor Party, and regression and reaction if it helps the other parties. He talked about abuse of the postal vote system. If the Minister wishes, I will give him the names of some Labor Party candidates who have indulged in just that abuse which he claims to find so abhorrent. Let me just point out - 
I will tell the honourable member if he presses me hard enough but I do not think that it is proper to do so without warning. 
If the honourable member will move that I be granted an extension of time when it runs out in 6 minutes, I will be happy to elaborate on it. In the last election the Australian Labor Party received 49 per cent of the vote and a small majority of five in this House. That is close enough. Why do we need to have such large scale changes as are suggested here? Why do we need changes in boundaries which, of course, would give the Australian Labor Party in most of the States a potential proportion of seats greatly in excess of the Party's potential proportion of votes, if we base that on the figures at the last 2 elections in 1 972 and 1 974. 
The Minister employed a very basic debating trick which I must immediately demolish. He referred to  Mr Mackerras  and said he was the adviser of the Opposition. I want to tell the Minister that  Mr Mackerras  is not an adviser to me.  Mr Mackerras  knows full well that usually I do not agree with him but he is, of course, entitled to his own views. To try to say that somehow or other we take notice of the views put forward by  Mr Mackerras  and then in the next breath to read an article in which he criticised the arguments I used, is surely stretching that debating trick too far. 
The Minister talked about the very high informal votes in the Senate. Of course, the Labor Party introduced that system. Surely to heaven, it would be a brave man who would try to claim that a change in the system will really reduce very much the number of informal votes. It sounds a great number the way the Minister put it but actually it is a rather moderate percentage. Although he talked about right wing candidates and all that sort of emotive stuff, the fact of the matter is that the informal vote percentage on the last election was not greatly different from that in previous elections. 
He talked about the election result in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory in respect of the optional preference system which, of course, is the Labor Party's first step towards a first past the post system. The Australian Labor Party has long wanted that. It has changed its policy between the 2 of these alternatives. It does not like the full preference system that we have. Why does not the Government like it? What is unfair about the system which we have had for so long and which so many countries regard as highly desirable? It gives each voter a final choice between the 2 most favoured candidates. That is what the full preferential voting system does. The optional preference system certainly will give the Labor Party a small edge- not big enough to win in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, where it went down so badly. In a close election it would mean a few per cent in the Labor Party's favour, and that is all it is interested in. 
I said that there are a number of far-reaching proposals in this legislation. They have been debated. The Minister reviewed them. In the few moments left to me I want just to refer to them so that those who are listening and those who are interested may understand that the Opposition has well based objections to these matters. They are based on the reasons I have given. The Labor Party seeks what it calls reform in order to help itself at election time. It seeks to prevent the counting of postal votes after the polls close on polling night- not in the least in order to get a quick result, but because it is sure on past records that those votes will not favour the Labor Party. Is that so bad? Those votes are from Australian citizens. Surely those who are in isolated regions, or those who are sick or for some other reason cannot get to a polling booth, should have a reasonable opportunity to have their votes counted. Many of their votes would not be counted under this system because there would not be time, particularly with the mail service run by this Government, for the votes to get to the appropriate polling booths so that they could be checked and counted in the usual way. 
The Government wants to have the names of political parties on the ballot papers to help itself. It has set up a structure in which the determination of this matter is to be done not by the courts or by an independent body but by an electoral officer, a servant of the Government. 
I said all this when the matter was last debated in this chamber. If the honourable member was listening- and I think he was- he would have heard. I want it to be clear that this is a bad system. In the past we have had the experience of seeing our Party's name very nearly copied. Honourable members opposite know of that experience. They know that a lot of confusion can come about in this way. That is what is sought. It is a Labor Party attempt to create difficulties for the other parties. I pointed out in the previous debate on this matter that there is much to be said for a member coming to this place as an individual, no matter how much parties are involved. Surely it is important for a candidate, when he presents himself to his electorate, to have some personal attachments. 
I close my remarks by saying that the attempt in these proposed changes is to create a confrontation. If the Minister wishes to make those changes on which all sides are agreed, let him bring in a Bill containing those and split this Bill. To adopt some of his words, this is not a just and equitable Bill; it is a biased one in favour of the Labor Party. It would not result in reformdedicated to reform, though he claims to be; it would result in advantage to the Labor Party. I rest my case on the point that the present law allowed this Government to be elected twice; so it cannot be so bad. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the aim of the Government to reduce the inflation rate, and is the present rate of inflation far too high. 
What reasons have been given by his predecessor for the present rate of inflation, and on what dates and occasions were those reasons, all, or in part, given. 
By what measures, and on what dates, has the Government taken action to reduce the rate of inflation, as referred to in Her Majesty The Queen's Opening Speech in 1974 written by the Government. 
When were such anti-inflationary measures most recently and cogently referred to. 
When comparing Australia's rate of inflation with that of other OECD countries, does the Government agree that some allowance should be made for the enormous increase in oil import costs to those countries. 
-Since this Bill was introduced by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  about 10 days ago, the Opposition has considered it closely. The Bill follows the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy, dated May 1974 and tabled recently in this House. The Committee, under the chairmanship of  Sir Walter  Scott, was set up by the present Australian Labor Party Government to inquire into purchasing and procurement policy. The Bill is very far ranging. There has been a good deal of public debate about this matter- not unnaturally, as it is an important one- which relates to the procurement principally of defence equipment. In days of yore, when I was Minister for Supply, I had some interest in the subject. I and other Opposition members have taken an interest in this matter. 
I suppose it is natural that there should be considerable debate about the principle of setting up a Purchasing Commission. What is suggested in the Bill is that the Commission should take over for most of the departments the purchasing of items costing more than $5,000. Some people believe that the recommendation of the Scott Committee in that respect went too far and that the Commission ought to act only in an advisory capacity. The Opposition believes that in questions of administration the Government must have a large say as to the way in which it will carry out its administration because it has administrative responsibilities under Acts and in other ways. But there has to be some limit to the power given to a Minister- and, for that matter, to others- by Bills. The Opposition believes that in this respect the Bill goes too far and that the powers given to the Minister are too wide in several respects. Clause 17, which is a short one, reads: 
The Minister may, by writing under his hand, give directions to the Commission with respect to the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions, either generally or with respect to a particular case. 
I daresay that the clause could not have been designed to give the Minister any wider powers than that. The Opposition believes that it is a bad principle to allow such a wide provision to exist in legislation unfettered, without any immediate accountability, without any opportunity for debate by Parliament or, for that matter, without examination. The reporting comes very much later. 
Now let me deal with the principle of whether there ought to be a commission at all. Some evidence in this respect was given to the Scott Committee. It is summarised briefly at page 68 of the report. I propose to read those arguments because in one way they are classical arguments and ones which anybody questioning such a centralising authority would raise. The arguments were summarised as follows, although the report says that the Committee did not accept any of them: 
Those against the concept centred their objections around the adverse factors likely to result from separating the user and the supplier. They advanced the view that something would be lost if a separated purchasing function were to be interposed between the desirable close association of user and supplier. More specifically, it was argued: first, a central agency might not be sufficiently responsive to the needs of operating departments. Secondly, it would lengthen the purchasing cycle and result in an increase in stock holdings and therefore expense. Thirdly, it might not respond fast enough when changes were necessary or in emergency situations. Fourthly - 
This is in reference to the Purchasing Commission-  it would be more likely to add to 'red tape' than to eliminate it, as it was suggested that extra staff and paper work would be necessary. Fifthly, there would be a division of responsibilities which might increase the number of disputes between departments and so interfere with, rather than promote, smooth working. Sixthly, in the case of Defence procurement - 
This is an area in which I have had some experience-  there could be objections on security grounds. 
That is a very short summary by the Committee, as I think it would acknowledge, of the sorts of objections raised. All of them are classical objections and ones of some weight. 
It is notable that certain departments- a rather odd collection of departments- have been exempted from the Commission. They are the Department of Housing and Construction and the Department of the Media. Although the second reading speech says that the Department of Services and Property is exempted, I cannot find any mention of it in the clause in which the other 2 departments are mentioned. That seems to be very odd. I hope that, in replying to the debate, the Minister will give us the reason why it does not appear in clause 1 1. Sub-clause (2) refers to the Department of Housing and Construction and sub-clause (3) to the Department of the Media. Why is it that those 2 departments, of all departments, have been left out? That seems to me to be passing strange. 
-Good, I am glad to hear that. I have referred to the very wide powers given to the Minister in clause 17. There are many others. I may have time later to mention some of them. The Opposition finds itself in a position of conflict with such wide powers because members of this Government are on the record- particularly in 1973- as saying that the Commission should use its powers to force compulsory trade unionism, to force worker participation and worker control in companies, to set out some pricing policy and to pursue other social policies instead of the time honoured ground of getting the best value for money or the best quality for the least cost in making decisions on an economic basis. That is a hint of what may be intended. Perhaps the Special Minister of State would not be one who would wish to pursue such policies, but of course, if the Bill is passed in its present form any Minister coming along might pursue those policies. The Opposition firmly believes them to be unfavourable and unjustifiable policies to pursue in this way. If there is a desire to pursue those policies it ought to be the subject of separate legislation and not dealt with by stealth in this way. The legislation also would allow favouritism of any kind to be exercised- political patronage, which is not quite foreign to us in these days. 
In the United States? 
I am not entirely aware of that and perhaps the Minister might like to elaborate on that also in his response to the debate. The Minister is very good at interrupting. I do not recall during the second reading speech that he made- 
If the Minister will allow me to make my point I shall tell him. I do not recall his speech being interrupted in this fashion. I am trying to make a case and the Minister will have an opportunity- a highly privileged opportunityto respond to all the speeches made on this Bill if the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  does not gag him. 
Yes. I am sure my friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will do a good job on this because I have discussed it with him a little already. What I am suggesting to the Minister- and I specifically excluded him from my remarks- is that the power would be there for a Minister to exercise in this way. But I did say also that there are enough statements on the records, which can be produced if necessary, to give the Opposition some cause to fear just what might be Government policy in this area. We believe that those clauses need to be amended; I say clauses because a large number of them need tightening up. In our view there is enough evidence to support the suspicion that the power might be used in a way other than to get the best quality of goods at the cheapest price. We have seen in other areas the use of political patronage around the country. I therefore indicate that the Opposition will be seeking to examine this Bill closely. 
I said earlier that we have had the Bill in our hands for 10 days. Of course we have had a lot of other far reaching legislation in our hands for a similar period. I think the Government proposes to debate about 17 Bills this week- which is an enormous number- so that we can get away. No doubt the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has to make his calls overseas shortly, so the Parliament cannot carry on. Therefore, an attempt is made to push things along at too fast a rate. This Bill is far reaching. We want more time to have a look at its provisions so that we can consider what amendments should be made. I shall be moving that debate on the Bill be deferred until the Budget session, which is due to commence in the middle of August of this year, so that it can be dealt with in that way. I hope that the Government will see fit to allow that to happen. 
Desirable though it may be to set up such a commission, this policy area has, after all, been in existence for a very long time and a few weeks here and there are not going to make any difference if the Government is genuine about wanting to set up the Commission in the way that is suggested. There are departures from the recommendations of the Scott report which, at an appropriate time, might be dealt with in detail. One that comes immediately to mind is that the authority is to purchase goods free of taxes; I think that also includes excise, but I am not entirely sure of that. It is notable that similar commissions in the United Kingdom and Canada have to pay tax. The Scott Committee recommended that the Commission pay tax; however, the Government is proposing that it do not. That is an obvious buying advantage, particularlyand this is another departure from the Scott report- as Government authorities and trading organisations come within the ambit of the Bill instead of just Government departments, as was recommended by the Committee. So those trading concerns will be in a position to get a buying or trading advantage simply because they are Government organisations. That latter point is against recommendation No. 6 in the Scott report. 
Clause 15, sub-clause (2), of the Bill seems to confer powers greater than those allowed to the courts. The sub-clause reads as follows: 
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, a person referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) is not excused from making information available to the Commission when required to do so under that sub-section on the ground that making the information available would contravene the provisions of another law, would be contrary to the public interest or make him liable to a penalty. 
That seems to indicate that perhaps the Minister does not believe he is going to get co-operation from the other departments. Perhaps the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has the Government bluffed and it feels that unless it has some legislative authority of standing it is not going to get what it wants. After all, no one else can get anything out of the Department of Minerals and Energy, so I suppose that is a straw in the wind. Another straw in the wind is to be found in paragraph (c) of sub-clause (1) of clause 3, in the definition of 'services'. That definition includes: the provision of gas, water, oil or any other substance; 
What in heaven's name does a purchasing authority have to do with the provision of gas, water, oil or any other substance? This seems to require some explanation. Perhaps it is - 
No doubt the Minister will tell us in due course. But it does seem to have something to do with the ambitions of the Department of Minerals and Energy. 
I might have a fixation, but so have thousands of prominent people around this country. We think there is ample evidence to justify our concern about the way minerals and energy policies are being handled. After all, oil exploration has ceased. In the definition clause, clause 3, 'procurement' is stated to include: obtaining offers, and negotiating and making agreements or arrangements in connection with ... the construction of works. 
It would be interesting to know how that can be equated with sub-clause (2) of clause 1 1, which states: 
Nothing in this Act prevents the Department of Housing and Construction from undertaking the procurement of works and associated services, whether on its own behalf or on behalf of another Department or an Authority. 
The definition of 'Authority' also seems to be odd. What is the meaning of the words 'being a company in which Australia has a controlling interest'? What does 'Australia' mean there? Does it mean the Australian Industry Development Corporation? Does it mean the Government? It seems to me to be odd, but I am not a lawyer and no doubt those familiar with these things will be able to explain it to us. Paragraph (e) of clause 5 states that the functions of the Commission are, subject to this Act: to acquire, hold, deal with and dispose of goods for other purposes of the Australian Government. 
Yet in sub-clause (4) of clause 1 1 we see that the Commission is not to create a market. So why is paragraph (e) of clause 5 necessary? It seems to be very wide. Clause 6 provides that: 
The Commission may do all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connexion with the performance of its functions and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may- 
undertake research, or arrange for research to be undertaken, into the policies, procedures and practices followed by Departments or Authorities- 
So far so good; but then it says: or by any other bodies or organisations . . . 
Does that envisage individuals and bodies in the private sector? Does it envisage investigations taking place so that information that cannot otherwise be obtained can be elicited in that way. This could be the case in regard to areas of oil and gas. I have referred already to my suspicions in regard to the activities in the areas of minerals and energy. I would think that some kind of amendment to make the position clear might be needed; for instance some words such as: 'arrangement with other bodies or organisations ' to do such and such. 
I am referring to clause 6 (b). I suggest that the words 'or any other bodies or organisations' in respect of the undertaking of research could be added. In clause 6 (c) there seems to be ample power to demand more and more statistics and with sanctions. I have referred to services and property which is referred to in clause 1 1. That seems to be hard to explain. The explanatory notes issued with the Bill in respect of clause 10 (2) (b) say that that sub-clause will allow the Commission to deal with contracts already entered into. While perhaps it is a minor point, that seems to have no connection with what is stated in that sub-clause. Then we come to clause 11(4) which states: 
Unless the Governor-General otherwise orders in a particular instance, nothing in this Act authorises the Commission to undertake the procurement of goods for the purpose of subsequent re-sale of those goods in the course of a trading activity or for the purpose of regulating the market in those goods or prevents a Department or Authority from undertaking such a procurement or disposal. 
Why is it then that we have these references that I have mentioned in clause 5 and the definition of services which are in apparent conflict with that clause? Clause 14 deals with special projects. Clause 14(10) states:  the Minister may give directions to the leader of a project team with respect to any matter in connection with the special project. 
That is completely unqualified. 
Sub-clause (11) states that he has to consult with other Ministers- write a letter or arrange a meeting. 
-Does it? Let me read out the sub-clause. Sub-clause (11) states: 
The Minister, before giving a direction under sub-section ( 10), shall consult with the other Minister or Ministers concerned and shall not give such a direction unless he has obtained the concurrence of that other Minister or those other Ministers to the giving of that direction. 
In other words, it is the Government or a subcommittee of it. I would not expect that in farreaching matters the Minister would be making these decisions on his own. The Government comes to decisions. But as part of the system that we operate in Australia under the heading of parliamentary representative democracy is divided power. There have to be some limits on what a Minister and a government do. After all, the public and, for that matter, the Opposition, never know what is a Government decision and what is a ministerial decision. 
There have been many illustrations in the House and there is a good principle at stake. We do not know that difference in spite of the Minister's attempt to draw a red herring across the trail. Let me make the point that nobody knows the difference between those two, and it really is not a distinction of any great importance in this context. If the Government comes to a harsh decision and decides that it wants to intervene in this it has simply to make a decision- perhaps in Cabinet or perhaps in a sub-committee of Cabinet- and off goes a direction which it is bound by. That is much too wide a provision. There is no criteria there about what the directions should be. They will not even be stated in the annual report. Such a wide power is clearly open to a lot of political intervention. I repeat that there is evidence- statements by Ministers- which would indicate that that may well be in the minds of some Ministers, and perhaps a majority of Ministers. Clause 14(13) states: 
The Minister may, at any time, direct the Commission to revoke the declaration of a project as a special project and, on and after the revocation, the responsibility for the carrying out of that project reverts to the Commission. 
Where is the consultation in regard to that? There is not even consultation. If the Minister thinks that consultation is a great safeguard- I do not agree with him- why is not some consultation provided for there? There is none. One can go on in this way in relation to this Bill. I have already mentioned clause 15 (2). I have mentioned other areas of the Bill. I have mentioned clause 17 which is tremendously wide and which is perhaps the widest of these provisions. Clause 25, which deals with disclosure of interests, is another wide clause. So we can go on and on. I have no doubt that my colleagues when debating this Bill will point out these areas. 
We say that it is necessary to look much more closely into what is involved in this Bill. If the Bill were passed in its present form the Purchasing Commission would have very great coercive powers over individuals, suppliers or groups of suppliers. It could blacklist suppliers for whatever reason it wished to pursue those policies to which I have referred or any other policies which anyone might think ought to be pursued. We have seen some pretty wild old policies which this Government has attempted to pursue. So we say that the Parliament has a right and a duty to see that some limitation is put on these wide powers. With that in view, I move the following amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
That all words after ' that ' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'to enable the provisions of the Bill to be more adequately considered the House is of the opinion that further progress of the Bill should be deferred until the Budget sitting 1975. 
The Opposition hopes that after consideration the Government will see that this is a reasonable course to pursue and that we may have another debate on this subject in the Budget session and attempt to restrict those powers without doing so unduly. However, if the Government will not accept that amendment then we shall raise these questions in the Committee of the Whole in more detail than I have been able to do here in considering the Bill as a whole in a relatively short period, and indicate what our concern is before the Bill reached the Senate. 
-The Opposition proposes a number of amendments. We do not intend to pursue all of them unless the Government indicates that it will view them favourably. There are several amendments standing in my name in relation to clause 3. We propose to test the principle of the age of 60 years being the age which applies under the new Commonwealth employees superannuation scheme. We will call for a vote on the first amendment. The amendments were explained during the debate on the second reading. I do not repeat them at any length. The Opposition believes there is ample evidence to show that, in terms of cost, social issues and comparison with other schemes, there is nothing to justify an age of retirement of 60 years. 
I draw attention to an aspect which I noticed some newspapers this morning were unclear about. One hopes that this might be corrected tomorrow but experience in this place leads one to believe that that will not happen. As far as existing members are concerned those contributing to retire at the age of 60 under these amendments are to have the option of remaining in the existing scheme on the present basis or of switching to the new scheme on the basis of a retirement age of 65 years and getting a cash refund of the excess contributions already paid. 
It is provided that there will be a period when an option can be exercised by those who are contributing to the present scheme to retire at 60. They can opt to continue with that scheme in exactly the same way. Additionally, anyone in the present scheme who is paying contributions with a view to retiring at 65 can also, within that time, opt to continue with the present scheme and pay contributions in order to retire at 60 years of age. So the present members are not affected. They have the option of staying with the present scheme whether at present they are planning and paying to retire at 60 or 65. If they do not take up that option they take up the conditions of the new scheme with the retirement age of 65. Of course all future members would conform with that principle. 
As I said during the debate on the second reading that principle is recommended by Professor Hancock in his report in which he sets out views on methods of instituting a national superannuation scheme which, one assumes, this country will see before very long. That raises the question which a number of people have raised in Press comments, namely, whether this great revision of superannuation for government employees ought to have been brought forward before the Hancock Committee had finished its recommendations and before the Government had decided what scheme it would implement. National superannuation is important to everybody in this country not just to those who are members of one scheme or another. If this had been done it would have been possible to see the scheme in context. I suggest to the Committee that any such proposal which could be financed for the whole nation would be nowhere near this standard. This scheme could not be afforded if every person came into it. 
As I pointed out during the debate on the second reading this is one of the aspects which goes too far beyond what is available virtually everywhere else in the community. It accepts a principle of a lower retiring age which I understand is the ambition of a number of people including union activists in this country who already are planning a retiring age lower than 60. 1 do not know where that sort of thing ends in terms of social value but I know where it ends in terms of cost. It is a tremendous cost as somebody pointed out earlier. I think it was the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  He said that the last 5 years a person works are the years when he is the most experienced and the most highly trained for his task. To retire earlier not only adds 5 more years of payment of pension but also means that his services have to be replaced. 
Of course, there is a loss of the contributions he would have made in that period. So there is a three-fold increase in cost of significant proportions. The cost set out in the Treasurer's memorandum is based on the calculations of the 1972 costs. Membership is also based on 1972 which is very much under the membership which will be in the new scheme. Cost is calculated by the Government actuary at $459m. I am rash enough to assert that the current figure would be likely be more than double that figure. It can only grow and grow as the numbers covered by the scheme increase, as they surely must. 
We are seeing many authorities and other groups of employees included in the scheme, and the average level of their salaries and wages increases. By way of aside I point out that I said during the debate on the second reading that one noticed when Bills were introduced into the 
House yesterday for the Government to take over the railway systems of South Australia and Tasmania, that the employees of those systems are to come under this scheme. I repeat that this provision is one of 4 elements we have closely examined and which we regard as over generous. This would put government employees in a highly favoured position when compared with the rest of the community. 
I would like the honourable member for Phillip to demonstrate that in this debate. I think he will not find that that is the case for the reasons I have already given. I have carefully read the arguments made in the reports. I must say that having read them I just cannot see that they have made a case. Maybe that is because whether one should retire at 65 or 60 is a matter of opinion and it cannot be proved one way or the other. Perhaps that is the position. I thought that the arguments put were singularly unconvincing. Perhaps Professor Hancock came to that conclusion because he referred not only to the additional cost but also recommended against it on social grounds. I have not been able to find any medical or demographic argument for reducing the standard retiring age below 65 years of age. In this House we have a number of honourable members who are older. That may or may not be a good benchmark. Certainly many people desire to work and do work up to that age and beyond it. So the Opposition believes this is an important matter. We will pursue it vigorously. I move: 
In sub-clause (1), in the definition of 'maximum retiring age ', omit ' 60 years ', substitute ' 65 years '. 
-The point the Opposition is trying to make is not that of compulsory retirement dates. Retirements are governed by the Public Service Act. The question is: What superannuation benefits should be paid at what age? The Opposition is attempting, by its amendments, to preserve the position of present members. They have the option to which I referred. Under our proposal, in future the age at which full benefits will be received will be 65 years and if anybody retires at an earlier age, as permitted by other legislation, they would get a lesser benefit or, if honourable members like, would pay a penalty- as one newspaper today reported me as saying- for retiring at that earlier period. That penalty is set out in the Bill and, from memory, I think it is of the order of 4 per cent for each year under 65. 1 interpose that to clear up that point. 
-The Opposition accepts the amendment and wishes to be associated with the acknowledgements that were made by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I should like to say too that having voted on the principle in this one of 4 areas, the Opposition will not pursue the proposed amendments on this matter and ask for them to be put to a vote; we will simply confine our debate to representative clauses of the areas that we wish to see amended. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 56- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 57. 
Where- 
a person is entitled to standard age retirement pension by virtue of section 56; and 
his period of contributory service is not less that 30 years, then, subject to sub-section (2) of this section, the annual rate of that pension is 50 per centum of his final annual rate of salary. 
Where- 
a person is entitled to standard age retirement pension by virtue of section 56; and 
his period of contributory service before attaining the age of 60 years was not less than 3 1 years, the annual rate of that pension is such percentage of his final annual rate of salary as, having regard to the number of complete years included in that period of contributory service, is applicable in accordance with Schedule 1 . 
Where- 
a person is entitled to a standard age retirement pension by virtue of section 56; and 
his period of contributory service is less than 30 years, the annual rate of that pension is such percentage of his final annual rate of salary as, having regard to the number of complete years included in that period of contributory service, is applicable in accordance with Schedule 2. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-clauses ( 1 ) and (2), substitute the following subclause: 

a person is entitled to standard age retirement pension by virtue of section 56; and 
b) his period of contributory service is not less than 30 years, then the annual rate of that pension is 50 per centum of his final annual rate of salary. '. 
This clause provides the opportunity to put the Opposition's view in respect of the second area that it wishes to see amended. It relates to the proposal to provide an additional government pension to a maximum of 5 per cent to those who in future have beyond 30 years of service and to those existing members of the Public Service who have beyond 20 years of service. It is in fact an additional government pension of one-half of one per cent per annum for each year of service over 30 years for new members. The Opposition's view is that a pension of 50 per cent for a government employee is adequate. There has to be an end somewhere. The argument that there ought to be provision for employees with up to 40 years of service only begs the question about service in excess of this period, and such cases do exist. It is believed that, in comparision with other schemes, this provision is over generous and therefore an unjustifiable burden on the taxpayers. 
I am advised that the Commissioner of Taxation has guidelines which he imposes in assessing the deductibility of contributions to private pension schemes by companies. The basis is the provision of a pension of 70 per cent of the average income of the 3 previous years. That is a less generous provision than that contained in the Bill. It has been suggested to me that with this legislation before us those guidelines perhaps are being revised. So be it. But in any case, I am advised by many people that they have been unable to get the Commissioner of Taxation to regard a pension of this magnitude as reasonable. That surely is one of the few guidelines. In terms of cost, on 1972 figures the provision will cost $338m. Compared with other schemes this scheme is superior and pace setting. We believe that this additional government pension is unjustifiable in present circumstances. Therefore, the Opposition has moved this amendment. Of course there are consequential amendments involving the proposed alteration to what after all is a very complex Bill, as are the 2 Bills associated with it. We put forward the amendments on that ground. 
-The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  in making some remarks a moment ago, seemed to be endeavouring to convince us that in fact the scheme is not leading. The Minister suggested too that it was hard to get figures relating to private schemes and that some of them, I think, were equal to or ahead of the government scheme. As the Minister will perhaps see when Hansard is printed, I tabled a statement that had been prepared by some actuaries who certainly are in a privileged position to obtain such information. I am surprised that the Minister should endeavour to show that the scheme is not ahead of those in the private sector in virtually every case. I know that one will find the odd scheme where a few well placed directors and others can use their positions, but I am talking about the great bulk of the people. On this occasion, the Minister is representing 300 000 people who will potentially become members of this scheme. I am surprised that the Minister makes that case because right at the beginning of his speech when introducing this Bill, the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  used the words 'Indeed the National Government should lead'. That is not an argument that can be interpreted in any other way than that the Treasurer believes the Government is leading the way. He suggested that honourable members look up the Hansard record of a reply to a question which was asked, I think, before the last 2-week recess in which he said he regarded the proposed scheme as a model which others would follow. He then went on to say, and I listened to him carefully- incidentally he spoke very carefully and deliberately, and obviously he was giving a prepared answer- that he thought others would follow, but slowly. I do not agree with that part of his statement. I am sure from all I have heard, that the pace setting and the follow on will be pretty quick. I made those points in the second reading debate. I really do not think that we can accept the argument that there is no pace setting involved. Of course, Professor Pollard and  Mr Melville  whose names have been much invoked in this whole area recommended against this addition. There really does not seem to be much to justify it, but a lot of cost is involved. 

 -Mr Chairman, I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1) omit '67 per centum ', substitute' 62 !4 per centum'. 
In sub-clause ( 2 ) omit ' 67 per centum ', substitute ' 62  Vi  per centum'. 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (a), omit '78 per centum', substitute '73V4 per centum'. 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (b), omit '89 per centum', substitute ' 8414 per centum '. 
In sub-clause (2) omit paragraph (c), substitute the following paragraphs: 
where there are 3 eligible children- 95% per centum; or 
where there are 4 or more eligible children- 100 per centum. '. 
These amendments relate to the widows' pension formula and the children's pension formula. 
I will speak specifically to my first amendment which seeks to substitute  '62i  per centum' for 67 per centum'. The present position is that 62 te per cent of a member's pension is paid to his widow. Widows of some members who were in the scheme prior to that percentage being set receive 50 per cent of the member's pension. There is a flat rate addition for children. The Bill proposes to increase the widow's pension to 67 per cent of a member's pension, with an additional 
I I per cent per dependent child to a maximum of 3 children. In other words, for a widow with three dependent children the payment would be 100 per cent of the member's pension. 
In the private sector, the common basis for a widow's pension is 60 per cent of a member's pension, 50 per cent in some cases and in many cases no pension at all unless the member's own pension is reduced to provide for a widow's pension. Therefore, in the opinion of the Opposition, the present formula providing a 62 te per cent pension is generous by private sector standards. The additional cost of the proposal is substantial. Again on 1972 costs and 1972 membership it is $138m. My first amendment and the consequential amendments propose to retain the present 62 te per cent formula, but to agree with the proposal that the first 3 dependent children should each be paid 1 1 per cent of the pension. Because there is a residue of 456 per cent, to make a 100 per cent pension we propose that the balance be paid where there is a dependent fourth child. I think that the reasoning behind my amendments is clear as to what the position was, what it is in the private sector and what is proposed by my amendments. I will not elaborate further on them. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) after 'pension' (second occurring),  insert   additional age retirement pension by virtue of section 58, additional early retirement pension by virtue of section 62, or spouse 's additional pension by virtue of section 84 '. 
This clause and other consequential clauses relate to the fourth of the matters which the Opposition wishes to amend in the proposed superannuation scheme for government employees. It relates to the pension updating in accordance with the cost of living. The present law provides for no increase in a member's portion of the pension but that the Government's portion of the pension shall be increased by 1.4 times the increase in the consumer price index, or the actual change in the average weekly earnings if that is lower. 
What the Bill proposes is that the government's portion of the pension- 50 per cent for a full period of service- be increased annually, according to the increase in the CPI, and that if a member, under the new and desirable provisions of the legislation, exchanges his accumulated contributions for a pension- it would not be more than 20 per cent of final salary- that too should be varied in accordance with the CPI. That is, the total pensions would be increased according to the CPI. The private sector practice is that automatic CPI adjustments are rare but there are schemes with CPI limits of 3 per cent or 5 per cent. I understand that they are becoming more prevalent, for obvious reasons. We are in the midst of a tremendous inflationary period. Some funds make ad hoc increases which cannot be put into categories, but many private funds have no increase provisions at all. The Pollard and Melville report, recommendation No. 5, suggested that only the Government portion of the pension be linked to the CPI. The Opposition believes that to be a more justifiable positionsome sort of a compromise. Linking the CPI increase to the Government portion only will provide some comparison with what is happening outside government service. 
The honourable member earlier picked out one issue and criticised it in terms of pace-setting. Of course, pace-setting is the total of a lot of features of a scheme. In fact it is quite a complicated procedure to compare 2 superannuation schemes. They are complex within themselves; they are very hard to compare. We believe it is clear that there is pace-setting in the totality of this scheme and that just to pick out one thing and to say: 'I know a scheme that has a percentage more' does not really prove a case. That is perhaps most relevant in the area of automatic increases because private sector pensions really have no way with keeping up. There is no way they have of guaranteering automatic CPI increases. That can be done under this scheme only because the Government can draw on Consolidated Revenue- that great reservoir of taxes which are gathered- just to top it up. It can meet whatever the costs come out to be. 
Although a number of calculations have been made as to what those costs may be- some of them are very old- they are at best an estimate. Depending on the assumptions used, the estimate can be very much astray. We have come to the conclusion that tremendous and unreasonable costs will be involved in this scheme. We are now in a situation of tremendously high inflationinflation of a height that I believe was really not envisaged by those who reported earlier. Those reports are dated 1973 and 1974, before the real impact of inflation hit us. We now have senior economists, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other bodies predicting that there will be even greater inflation, perhaps 20 per cent, in the period ahead. Surely therefore we ought to ask ourselves on this point whether these recommendations are justified in the light of the experience we have had and the position in which we may find ourselves. So the Opposition's aim is to try to reduce, firstly, the cost and, secondly, the widening gap between the benefits which will be received by government employees on the one hand and by those outside the government service on the other. That is the purpose of the amendment. We believe that the phenomenal inflation rate we have at the moment brings with it a new situation which calls for this action. There is no way that private schemes can keep up with the proposed scheme. Of course, indexation is terribly attractive to those who can get their incomes and their taxes indexed. It leaves everybody else right out in the cold and worse off than ever. Indeed it would make a section of the community immune from the ravages of inflation. It would inflation-proof their position, if you like, and leave them with little interest in having inflation reduced because they would not be directly affected by it. 
I suppose that we will hear now what we have heard before, that is, how can we possibly be against giving something to somebody? I thought the Minister showed such relish and enthusiasm in being emotive about widows. That is terribly easy. But the response to that argument is surely this: What is magical about 67 per cent? Why not make it 167 per cent? It is a question of the level. It is not a question of sympathy and it is not a question of being more sincere because you are more emotive. Obviously, there has to be a limit on what is paid and the limit has to be set with some regard to what is going on around us in the world. We believe that such a payment is not justifiable in terms of comparison, and that it is not justifiable in terms of the costs which the taxpayers have to meet. 
-I want to take up one or two points mentioned by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan).  The honourable member for Phillip seemed to me to be trying to say that because certain persons in the private sector were getting advantages this scheme ought to exceed that in order to compensate in some way. I think if the honourable member reads what he said - 
I shall answer that interjection so that it will be on the record. I think the honourable member talked about discrimination in the latter part of his remarks. Tomorrow when he reads in Hansard what he said he will find there was a pretty strong implication that he was trying to see this as some sort of compensation. He talked about people getting the advantage of cars. Incidentally, he said 'tax free' or 'they do not pay tax' or something like that. I think he ought to refer those cases to the Commissioner of Taxation who has a way of dealing with people who get company cars and use them privately. I think he mentioned other advantages. 
Was that it? Anyway, does the honourable member see what I am getting at? I think the honourable member for Port Adelaide follows my argument. The honourable member is saying that people are getting that sort of advantage, so they cannot complain if there is something on the other side. As I have pointed out, the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has come down four square, openly and honestly and has indicated that that is what was in his mind. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation gave us some historical information about the topping up system. He quoted some remarks made by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  who was then the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. The honourable member made the comment- that was then Government policy or he would not have said that- that the matter needed to be simplified. I think that was the word he used. We are not suggeting a complicated system here. As a matter of fact, what we are attempting to amend will have the same practical application if it is not carried to many people. They will be the ones who seek to take part of their pension as a lump sum. That portion of the pension they take as a lump sum, of course, will not be indexed. It will be paid to them and that will be the end of it. To those people, there will not be a linking to an index of that part of the pension which is the result of their contributions; it will only be on the Government portion. That is what we are asking for. Do not tell me that is not a simple system. Anyone can relate the consumer price index to the Government portion of the pension as readily as they can do it to the whole pension. Simplicity is not the problem. 
The Minister tried to say that the last system was a bad one or it was not a simple system. If there is any fault, it is on both sides. Honourable members accept that if they will. The fact of the matter is that the Bills before us propose a new scheme for consideration. If anybody is seeking the best system, this is the time to look for it. It is no use saying that the system before last did not work as well as it should have. One could agree or disagree with that view. As a matter of fact, it was a similar system to that which the private funds have to use. The private funds have no alternative because they do not have a bottomless pit such as Consolidated Revenue from which to top up their schemes. 
The amendment I have moved is in accord with the Pollard-Melville recommendation. It will apply, in any case, to those who take all their contribution in a lump sum. It is a fairer system. It is not illogical. It is not particularly harsh because it breaks down, to a small extent, the tremendous advantage public servants have over those outside the government service by having their pensions linked to the consumer price index. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Garland's)  be agreed to. 
-The 3 Bills which are being debated together cover a proposed new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Government employees and consequential amendments to the present scheme and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits scheme. These schemes, and matters relating to superannuation, are extremely complex but the Opposition has had the advantage of advice from many persons within the public and private sectors, including discussions with government employee unions. Superannuation for Government employees has been amended a number of times since it was instituted in 1922, and it is natural that from time to dme modifications and up-dating will be necessary. The 

<graphic href="095131197505282_46_0.jpg"></graphic>

This state of affairs cannot be allowed to continue, and in itself would justify agreement to the basic principle in the Bill. Its major defect, long overdue for reform, is the contribution system. Members commence contributions at absurdly low levels- less than 2 per cent- and at older ages need to contribute at absurdly high levels, which has been aggravated by recent high levels of inflation and income tax. Introduction of members contributions at a uniform rate of 5 per cent of salary- with the option of voluntarily contributing up to a further 5 per cent of salary- is a worthwhile change. The Opposition agrees with the need to introduce a new scheme which corrects the deficiency in the contribution rates, and makes other desirable changes. 
Another most beneficial result of the new contribution system is the significant reduction in administration. For these 2 reasons alone a change in the present scheme is highly desirable. Other significant and desirable features of the present scheme is a very good scheme with regard to the level of benefits provided. It is however inadequate in one major and one minor respect. Contributors in their final years of service must pay an unreasonably high percentage of their salary to purchase the pension to which their level of government employment entitles them, and they have no opportunity to convert part of their pension to a lump sum. I have before me a schedule of examples of contributors in their latter years of service in which the percentage of superannuation contributions to salary is shown to vary between 14 per cent and 53 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the table prepared by Treasury. 

<graphic href="095131197505282_46_0.jpg"></graphic>

proposed new scheme are: Contributors or their dependants have the option of taking part of the benefit on death or retirement as a lump sum; provident fund contributors are to be given the same benefits on retirement as other contributors and much improved benefits on death or invalidity; children and orphans are to get better benefits; and the position of temporary public servants is to be improved. All this is most reasonable. 
A number of enquiries into the present scheme have been undertaken. Firstly, a Committee of Treasury under the chairmanship of  Mr R.  C. Davey was appointed by the then Treasurer of the Liberal-Country Party Government,  Mr B.  M. Snedden, in 1972 and reported in March 1973. 1 pay tribute to the help and explanation that  Mr Davey  and  Mr Pearson,  both Treasury officers, gave to the Opposition during the examination of the Bills. Professor A. H. Pollard, also appointed by  Mr Snedden  in 1972, reported in 

<graphic href="095131197505282_46_0.jpg"></graphic>

March 1973 on superannuation pension updating. In March 1974 the then Treasurer presented a document of proposals for a new superannuation scheme for government employees which was the basis of a further and detailed examination by Professor Pollard and  Mr- not 'Sir', as  the Prime Minister said the other day- G. L. Melville who reported in June 1974. The then Treasurer in a report dated 5 December 1974 set out his revised proposals after consideration of their report and other representations he had received. 
There has been a considerable controversy in the Press about the standards which the proposed new scheme would set for superannuation benefits for government employees. The Opposition has closely examined these criticisms and has come to the conclusion that it must act in a responsible way in relation to those aspects of the proposal which will unreasonably widen the gap in superannuation provisions between the public and private sectors. The Australian economy calls for a level of restraint by all sectors of the community. The Opposition takes its role as alternative government of Australia seriously, and has emphasised time and again that it regards as irresponsible government spending in many areas, and other expenditure resulting from maladministration and waste. In seeking amendment to the undesirable aspects of the Bill, we are conscious that half of the membership of the Senate is composed of Opposition members. The Treasury has advised that if the Government were called upon to fund the new scheme in the same way as the private sector is required to fund its superannuation obligations, it would be necessary for the Government to contribute 23 per cent of the total salaries of all contributors. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement prepared by the Treasury, with the assistance of the Actuary, in respect of funding on a private sector basis the superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. 
Superannuation Scheme for Australian Government Employees Funding on a Private Sector Basis 
In private sector superannuation schemes a widely adopted method of making provision for the employerfinanced element of benefit payable in the future is for the employer to fund his share of benefits and pay contributions determined as a constant percentage of salary during the service of each member of the scheme. 
On the basis of: 
using the main assumptions adopted by the actuaries  Mr G.  L. Melville and Professor A. H. Pollard in their June 1974 Report (these are set out in paragraph 91 of the Explanatory Memorandum on the Superannuation Bill 1 975 circulated by the Treasurer on 1 5 May 1975); and 
assuming also that those members achieving normal retirement will, on average, retire at age 6 1 (the average age for normal retirement on pension under the present scheme is 63-64 years); it has been estimated that, if the Government-financed element of benefits payable under the New Superannuation Scheme for Australian Government Employees were to be funded by the private sector method, a contribution equal to 23 per cent of the salary of each member would be payable during the period of his contributory membership of the scheme. 
Using the Melville/Pollard assumptions it has been estimated that, if the Government-financed element of benefits payable under the present Pension Scheme were to be funded by the private sector method, a contribution equal to 22 per cent of the salary of each member would be payable during the period of his contributory membership of the scheme. 
The Melville/Pollard assumptions have been adopted to provide comparability with other published information. If, of course, other assumptions were to be used the results could well be different. 
At 30 June 1974 the sum of the salaries for superannuation purposes of the 2 14 8 10 persons then paying contributions into the Superannuation Fund approximated $ 1 , 467,700,000, giving an average salary for superannuation purposes of $6,832. 
The Treasury 
May 1975 
Consulting actuaries have advised the Opposition that contributions at the level of 23 per cent of salaries would be sufficient only if it were assumed that all of the benefits relating to service up to date were fully funded. If this were not the case, as usually applies when major improvements are made, additional contributions would be required. Professor Pollard in his March 1973 report examined the financial implications of retrospectively improving benefits for employees of authorities like the Postmaster-General's Department, who are required to fund the employer's part of the benefits. Page 68 of the Pollard 1973 report, 'Enquiry into Pension Updating', states: 
A substantial lump sum payment (or its equivalent in intalments) would be required in respect of existing pensioners, another in respect of past contributions on behalf of existing contributors, the fortnightly contributions in future would be also based on a higher multiplier than the figure used at present. These lump sums are clearly a commitment which probably no Authority could meet or would be called upon to meet, in one year. It is only reasonable that they should be made in instalments over (say) ten years. Even so, the commitment is one which cannot be lightly undertaken. It gives some idea of the problems which updating causes the private funds and it gives some idea too of the cost which consolidated revenue ultimately would have to meet in respect of persons for whom the Commonwealth is the employer. 
The cost of the new scheme will depend upon the contributions which members elect to pay and the extent to which accumulated contributions are converted to pensions. The basis upon which these conversions are to be available is so favourable that it is the opinion of the actuaries that the cost of updating pensions purchased with employee's contributions will be significantly higher than the $225m estimated by the Government Actuary. They have also drawn our attention to the fact that no allowance has been made in estimating the total effective cost to the taxpayer of the new scheme for the reduction in income tax revenue that occurs if pensions are replaced by lump sums. 
While we believe government employees should be allowed to convert pensions to lump sums, the considerable cost involved should not be ignored. Cost and pace-setting are of fundamental importance to the Australian taxpayer. They are also of great importance to the private sector of the economy and the State governments' cost structure. We are convinced that the implementation of these proposals in full will lead to immediate pace-setting and the private sector and Federal and State government instrumentalities will be forced to follow and to raise costs immediately. I do not think I need to argue at length the case that the scheme is a pace-setter because the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his second reading speech and in his answer to a question in the House a few weeks ago indicated that he saw the scheme as a leader and a model which he expected others would follow. 
There are some aspects of the proposal which are plainly over-generous in existing economic conditions. They are neither necessary nor desirable and would have the effect of putting benefits even further ahead of anything possible in the private sector, particularly in the present conditions of tremendously high inflation and income tax. The consumer price index increased by 13 per cent in 1973, 16 per cent in 1974 and for the first quarter of 1975 the increase is at an annual rate of 18 per cent. This is striking comment on the mismanagement of the economy. It is having a most detrimental effect on all superannuation funds and on the benefits which they provide. Only government pensions can be tied to the consumer price index with impunity because only governments have the seemingly bottomless pit of Consolidated Revenue upon which to draw. I have received a considerable amount of correspondence concerning the proposed scheme. The overwhelming complaint from the public servants about the existing scheme is in respect of the very high contribution rates that they have to make in their last years of service. That is being fully overcome by the new scheme. As a result of the simpler contribution system, comparison with the private sector is easier, and this emphasises the clear superiority of the scheme. 
Considerable criticism has been carried in the daily Press, some of which is expressed in letters and comments to me. Some public servants have also commented to me that they believe that some aspects of the scheme are over-generous. The future cost of the amended scheme is a matter of fundamental importance. The Opposition has been concerned to try to determine what this will be. It is important to note that the estimated capital cost set out at the back of the Treasurer's explanatory memorandum attached to the Bills is based on salaries and membership as at 30 June 1972. It need hardly be said that there has been a tremendous inflation in salaries and a tremendous increase in the number of contributors since then. Furthermore, a great number of new contributors will now be able to join this scheme who have not previously been eligible. So the use of this schedule as a guide for future costs results in very considerable understatement. The Bills introduced yesterday concerning the taking over of the States' railways by the Commonwealth will enlarge that number even more. 
Based on the information supplied by the Treasury and its assumed contribution rate of 23 per cent of salaries, the Government's annual contributions for 214 810 persons paying contributions into the Superannuation Fund at 30 June 1974 with annual salaries at $ 1,467m would be $337m per annum. Nearly 300 000 persons will be members on 1 July 1975 giving rise, in conjunction with the overall higher salaries, to a greatly increased cost to the Government and therefore the taxpayer. 
We have been advised by the senior partners of the consulting actuaries,  Mr Bruce  Cook and  Mr Ken  Dodson, that if an employer in the private sector wished to introduce the Government scheme for his staff he would have to pay contributions at much higher rates than the 23 per cent indicated by the Government Actuary. This is because his contributions would have to be closely related to the current ages of his employees and not the lower age at which new staff are recruited, because insufficient assets exist to provide for past service. I seek leave to include in Hansard the table setting out the contribution rates that the actuaries would require. 
-The Opposition does not pursue its amendments, which are consequential amendments. In view of the decision of the House on the principal Bill, it is not our desire to pursue any of the other amendments in our name. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The Opposition will vote for this Bill. We understand the reasons the Government has for bringing it forward. From time to time legal doubts can arise and in this case the issue is whether there is any conflict of interest. There is doubt as to whether the terms of section 8, sub-section (2), paragraph 
of the National Capital Development Commission Act do or do not permit the Commissioner or Associate Commissioner to engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office. We recognise that there is a doubt. There is nothing certain about a conflict of interest. As the  Chairman  of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, we naturally wish  Mr A.  J. W. Powell well in his work. We think that the principle that has been established here- that there is no conflict of interest in this type of case- is correct. One might even be bold enough to say that it ought to be the principle embodied in our own Constitution; but that is not for present discussion. Certainly I see nothing wrong in allowing this situation to exist. I have consulted a number of people and they see nothing wrong in it either. As stated in the Minister's second reading speech, the Bill contains a number of formal amendments related to audit, remuneration and allowances. We see nothing wrong with those amendments and we accept the Bill. 
-The House is debating again the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1975 [No. 2]. The Bill seeks again to obtain the authorisation of Parliament to put to the people of Australia a referendum which would if carried result in elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate being held simultaneously. It is a proposal which was rejected by the Australian people at the elections in May of last year, only a little more than one year ago. I believe that the person behind the Government's policy in this respect is the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He is the one rather than the rest of the Government who is pushing to see that this proposal is put again to the people. Nevertheless, it is Government policy that this legislation be introduced again, debated, and treated as a matter of high priority among the competing priorities of legislation in this House. 
I make some point of the competing priorities of legislation in this House. In practice there are only so many days that the House can meet and there are only so many Bills that can be dealt with. We are being told continually by the Government that there is a crush of legislation, that the House cannot deal with this, that, or the other, or that some proposal must be delayed because of the time restraint. Here we have a measure being forced through the House again. Time is being taken up on a proposal which has been recently decided against the Government's policy. The truth of the matter is- anyone who has watched the Prime Minister closely will have observed this- that when he gets a bee in his bonnet he just goes straight ahead and rams his proposal through. Apparently he has bulldozed members of his Party into agreeing to put this Bill forward again, with other Bills, knowing that the legislation will be rejected in the Senate again on the ground that it was defeated by the people only a year ago. Yet the Prime Minister persists. I take the opportunity to point out that this is yet another indication of the aim of the Prime Minister to get his way, come what may, and in spite of what may be the clear indication of the vote of the Australian people and indeed of the sentiment of this Parliament. 
The Opposition will oppose this Bill. There is nothing new in it. This legislation was put before the House as recently as last February. It was defeated at that time in the Senate. It is one of 4 Bills that were put through the Parliament with the agreement of the Opposition to provide for referenda on 4 broad subjects. I will say more about that aspect in a moment. Those Bills were the subject of referenda put to the people at the double dissolution election of 18 May 1974. All of those referenda were defeated. The real significance of this Bill which has been brought forward today needs to be pointed out. It is that the Bill will now become one of a number of Bills- I think the present count is eleven- which could be used as grounds for a double dissolution if the Government were to recommend to the Governor-General that a double dissolution be held. I do not think that the Government at the moment is game to do that. There is what has been called a storehouse of Bills. If there were a double dissolution and if the Labor Party had a majority of the combined membership of the Senate and House of Representatives, it could obtain at a Joint Sitting, as provided by the Constitution, a majority to have those Bills on which the double dissolution was granted put through and passed. That is what the Government did with 6 Bills in July last year as a result of the double dissolution election which took place in May. 
So the significance of this Bill is that, when rejected by the Senate, it will join other Bills in this storehouse of Bills. This will be one of the Bills which the Government will seek to have passed. Having had it passed the Government, of course, will not be in any superior position to the position it held in April 1974 when the Bill was passed by the Senate. I think the Government has anticipated accurately that Opposition senators will not permit this Bill to be passed now because the matter has so recently been decided by the people and they do not wish the proposition to be passed, with good reason which I shall come to in a moment. The fact is that this proposal suits the Government as the largest Party in the country at the moment, because the proposal will act against the interests of small parties and individual candidates if a Senate election coincides with the House of Representatives election. This would make it almost impossible for those individuals or small party candidates to have their voices heard in the crush and electoral conflict which go on at the time of a general election. The question which was put to the people and which they rejected was: 'Do you think that the elections for the Senate and the House of 
Representatives ought to be held on the same day?' That was the kernel of the question. 
As the honourable gentleman interjects, elections were held together for a long time but they were not automatically linked as is proposed in this Bill. Surely that distinction must be clear to the honourable member for Wilmot and to every other honourable member in the Parliament. The question I put a moment ago was the kernel of the matter. Unfortunately, as with the other referenda questions, this question was by no means clear when it appeared on the ballot papers presented to the people. It needs to be pointed out that the wording of all 4 questions put to the people contained more than 4 propositions. On analysis there were about double that number. The questions were very unclear and slanted in favour of the Government which was trying to get a majority of yes votes. The ballot paper was very complicated, but I am glad to say that the people of Australia saw through the Government's intentions and resoundingly voted them out. I wish to indicate what I mean by that statement because when one reads the comments made by the Prime Minister in support of this legislation in his speech in February of this year one will see the lengths to which he will go to misrepresent the position. Speaking of the referendum put in May 1 974, he said: 
The proposal failed only narrowly to obtain an overall majority of the votes. Over 3V4 million voters endorsed the proposed law and slightly fewer than 3% voted no. The proposed law received a majority of yes votes in the most populous State New South Wales, and was only narrowly lost in Victoria and South Australia. The proposal is clearly one that has great appeal to the electorate. My Government is of the view that it is of such importance and merit that it should again be put to the people. 
Let us analyse that statement and the election results. The fact is that the Constitution requires a majority. It was not a close majority; it was quite a clear majority against the proposal. The Constitution provides also that it must be carried by a majority of States. The Prime Minister did not mention that fact. As a great lawyer, perhaps he overlooked the fact that the Constitution, makes that provision. How many States carried a majority for this proposition? One out of six. That is how close it was. 
I do not mind the Prime Minister being somewhat proud that he is a member from New South Wales- the most populous State, as he described it on this occasion and as he has described it on many occasions with some relish- but may I, as a representative of one of the other States, draw to his attention that when this Federation was formed a condition on which the other States came into it and on which it was founded was that they would have an equal say in the Senate. I have a great deal of regard for New South Wales and many of its people. I look upon it perhaps as a second home in some ways, but I am sure that the great majority of the people in New South Wales would agree with me that it is not only their more populous numbers which are to be considered in these matters which affect the whole country but the minorities have some rights under our Constitution since it was based on the principle that smaller States and indeed other States would have a say. So when 5 States think one way and one State, albeit the most populous, thinks the other way, surely the decision is clear. Surely when a difference of 250 000 people is involved, even when one is counting heads, that is not a close result. 
The truth is that the Prime Minister wants this . referendum and the other referenda carried to help his electoral prospects. That is what this matter is all about. We can see in this proposal and in the boundaries which have been presented to this House, the so-called reform that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  wants to achieve under the Electoral Act, a whole pattern of effort to improve greatly the chances of the Australian Labor Pary at elections. I put to the House and to the people of Australia that a system which has resulted in both sides of our political spectrum being elected cannot be so very unfair. This system enabled Labor to win in 1972 and 1974, and the Liberal and Country parties to win prior to that. It must be pretty flexible and rather balanced to permit those changes. I believe that this Bill is part of a pattern to achieve advantage. When one speaks privately to many Labor Party members of this House, no secrecy is made of that objective. On the contrary, there seems to be a good deal of pride in the aim. 
This Bill and the proposition of making these elections simultaneous have, I suppose, superficially some attractiveness and some plausibility. But on more careful examination surely that argument is pretty hollow. The relationship between the House and the Senate is perhaps fairly sophisticated and not widely understood outside the Parliament. It is a relationship of considerable independence. Of course the Senate is a chamber in which the number of representatives from each State is equal- each State has 10 Senators. The House is a chamber at present of 127 members who are elected from the States in proportion to the population within those States. The Senate is not controlled by the House and the House is not controlled by the Senate. All Bills must pass through both chambers before they can become law. 
As I said, in the 1890s some of the selfgoverning States, when considering federation, were not prepared to come into the Federation unless their position was safeguarded. That is the view of many people in some of the States today. In my own State of Western Australia it is very much the general opinion. We should not think, as obviously the Prime Minister does, that all those views are outdated, that nobody minds all power being centralised in Canberra and decisions being made in accordance with his wishes. On the contrary there is a good deal of doubt about it. I find, wherever I go, an increasing recognition of the value of the Senate as a house of review, as a chamber which makes some effort to analyse proposed legislation, which considers whether it would be a good law and which acts as a bit of a brake. Even when the Government of the day has had a majority in that chamber it has been notable that many amendments have been made to Bills before they became law. So it does in that sense act as a reconsideration mechanism and as a house of review. 
Under the constitution the Senate normally has an election for half of its members every three years. But the House of Representatives, which is the populous House, is constituted on the principle that its members represent certain numbers of people. It is a deep constitutional principle that governments stand or fall on their support or otherwise in this House and not by what goes on in the Senate. Of course there is a considerable difference in the activities of the 2 chambers which have a very different role to play within our Constitution. We borrowed this principle from the proceedings and Constitution of the House of Commons at Westminster. All the proceedings of this House are based on the procedure and constitutionality of what was developed in England over centuries of trial and error. 
When a government loses confidence in this place it usually leads to an election. The only time it would not lead to an election would be when the party of the majority was able to find another leader that it would stand behind so that there would be no need for it to go to the people for an election to determine which party or parties should have the majority and indeed which leader should get a vote of confidence. That vote of confidence is a confidence to form a government and to carry on a government; it is not a vote of confidence in every item in the party platform, as our present Prime Minister never fails to claim. 
Elections for this chamber can, and in fact do, take place at more frequent intervals than 3 years. We had a parliament which lasted from 2 December 1972- my dates may not be entirely accurate but they will do for the sake of argument- until 18 May 1974. That was a short period. Under this proposal the term of the Senate, or half of its members, would be of the same duration. I am leaving out of the question consideration of the separate matters that arise with a double dissolution. That is a rather basic change to be suggesting. So, closer analysis of this proposition shows that we would be making a very big change to the Constitution of this country and I am not sure, even after the debate on this Bill, that all its ramifications have been fully thought out. 
We have to bear in mind too that the Prime Minister and the present Government Party have for many years put the view that the Senate ought to be abolished. It is or was Australian Labor Party policy- I think it still is- that the Senate should be abolished, that there is no need for it, and one quite often hears members of the Labor Party putting that argument in this place. That, of course, runs completely counter to the basis of our federation and to the structure that I have briefly outlined in my remarks. However, it does point up the belief of the Government that it knows far better than anybody else. The Prime Minister is on record as having said that he favours only a 2-party system- in other words, he would do away with any small party- and a uni-cameral system, which means that he would do away with the Senate. He is clearly opposed to the activities of the States and wishes to have them either abolished or left as empty shells. He has talked about the anachronisms of boundaries set in the 1 890s. There are some who believe that he would like to see himself as the first  president  of this country. Certainly at times he has done things which indicate that he would like our monarchy dispensed with, though I notice that in recent times he is drawing away from that view. At times he has favoured a first past the post balloting system. At present he favours an optional preferential system which many people believe is much the same thing anyway. 
So we have an attack on many constitutional institutions in this country by the Prime Minister and his Government and this Bill is part of that attack. It is a course of conduct which seems to be aimed at enabling the Prime Minister to have very great power and at minimising very much any opposition that might appear to his wishes. That seems to be based on the principle that he knows best, but one could validly argue that in view of some of his policies of recent times it is easy to see that he does not always know best. However, it is more fundamental than recent policies and administration. Surely the essence of democracy is divided power- a division of power around the country. Allowing no government or minister to have full and unfettered power is what democracy is all about. 
We in the Liberal and National Country Parties believe in the preservation of these institutions such as, to take one example, the relationship between the Senate and the House of Representatives. We believe that elections being held by the Senate at fixed intervals and by the House of Representatives at intervals determined in the first place by the Electoral Act, which sets a maximum of 3 years, and in the second place by events in this House- namely, until the Government can no longer retain the confidence of the House- are basic principles which ought to be preserved. As the people already have voted against the proposition contained in this Bill, we see no reason why we should accept it now. We reject the Bill and will vote against it and the Senate will not pass it because the Opposition Parties there have sufficient numbers to see that it is not passed. This is a proposition that would do considerable violence to the place of the Senate in the Constitution. 
There is certainly a growing need- not a diminishing need- for the Senate in its present role as an examiner and a House of review. I think Australia has had good service from the activities of the Senate in recent years and, to be fair, that has come about partly because of the activity of Labor members in the Senate. The Opposition's view is that we should oppose this BUI. The Government, if it wishes, can add the BUI to its storehouse of Bills awaiting a double dissolution. I suggest to the Government that it may not be a complete joy to be gathering together more and more Bills to be put to the people at the next election. It may be a very attractive proposition to the Prime Minister to say: 'We have 15, 20, 30 or 40 Bills in a storehouse and if you elect us we Will make sure we get them all through'. But I put it to the Government that that proposition has a 2-edge blade. If the Government puts such a large number of Bills to the people there is bound to be a big section of the people who will say: 'We are not so sure we want that particular BUI passed'. The Government might find that at election time it gets more opposition than might at present be perceived. 
I conclude by saying that there is no general demand by the Australian people for making this change to the Constitution. I do not know in what circles the Prime Minister moves where he hears a demand for this change, but those circles are not very widespread. The history of referenda in Australia is that most people believe that by and large the machinery has been working pretty well. I see no chance of this referendum being passed- if the proposal gets that far. The Opposition believes that the proposal is a waste of time and it will be rejecting it. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the Postal Institute offering travel concessions of approximately 10 per cent for (a) its members, (b) their relatives and (c) their friends. 
Have carriers and others involved in the tourist industry denied that they are offering any concessions of this kind to the Postal Institute. 
Are these concessions being allowed. 
If so, how is it possible to allow them when other travel agents cannot. 
Is the Postmaster-General's Department or any other Government body providing funds to assist the Postal Institute for this or other purposes; if so, what are the details. 
-The Opposition has made clear its position in relation to this Electoral Laws Amendment Bill on more than one occasion. But I take this opportunity again, since the Government is bringing the Bill and the amendments back into this House, to refer briefly to our position. It is certainly not a case of idle obstructionism, as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  would have people believe. Of course, strictly speaking this is not a Bill of reform. I have had occasion previously to point out to the Minister the distinction between reform and change. In his lexicon they are the same thing. In fact, they are very different. This Bill intends to change the existing electoral laws and procedures for the conduct of Federal elections in favour of one party, and that party is the Australian Labor Party. 
The honourable member for Wilmot says that that is not true. If he cares to read the reports of the debates he will see where I have referred - 
That interjection by the honourable member scarcely does him and his background credit. But let me proceed. It is intended by this Bill to improve the fortunes of the Australian Labor Party at future elections. 
That is my clear position and I maintain it in spite of the interjections by the honourable member. I have pointed out in some detail in previous debates, when dealing with the various principles involved, just why we take that view. In the face of the Government trying to improve its electoral fortunes and to change the electoral laws in its favour, it is quite silly to say that because we object to the Bill and vote against it in this House and in the Senate that is obstructionism. If we were to agree to all the proposals to change boundaries and electoral laws we would need about 60 per cent of the votes to be against the Labor Party in order to get a majority of seats in the House. My colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and other colleagues took the opportunity, when debating boundaries recently, to point out that if they had been agreed to, the percentage of seats obtained by the Labor Party would be greater than the percentage of votes it would get. The figures used related to votes recorded at the last 2 general elections. Those proposals, the proposals contained in this Bill and the proposals contained in another Bill, which relates to disclosing donations and which no doubt will be debated again shortly, are part of a package by the Government to change the electoral laws in its own favour. 
The Minister for Services and Property, who is at the table and who is in charge of this legislation, has said on behalf of the Governmentthis was a little bit in the form of a threat, but let me be mild on this occasion- that this matter will be brought forward at a later date. He conjured up the view of another Joint Sitting of the Parliament. Of course, that presupposes that the Government will decide to call a double dissolution. It seems a long way from that stage at the moment. 
I take the honourable member up on that point. It was the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who used the grounds he had to call a double dissolution. It was the Opposition which put the Government into the position of having to have an election for the House. It was the Government which made the decision to have a double dissolution. I draw that distinction. I see that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  is nodding, so he agrees with me'. The Minister for Services and Property has said that he regards this Bill as one of those to go to a Joint Sitting. I point out that that means 2 things. It means, firstly, that the Government has to take a decision to have a double dissolution because it is only under those circumstances that a Joint Sitting can be held. Secondly, and more unlikely, the result of that double dissolution has to be that the Labor Party wins the election in the lower House. That is very far from reality when one looks at the polls and listens to what people around the country are saying. Of course, Bills will be presented to a Joint Sitting and proceeded with only if the Labor Government wins by having a majority of the number of members in the House of Representatives and the Senate combined. So, they are important aspects. 
I think the real significance is that the Government sees that its only chance of rigging the electoral laws is as as result of a double dissolution and a Joint Sitting. The Government knows that otherwise the Parliament will not agree to the changes. Why should it? I come back to the principal point I have made in these debates before. We have a system which has resulted in both sides of the political spectrum in this country being elected. The Australian Labor Party under the existing law won the elections in 1974 and 1972. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party won elections prior to that. The law cannot be so bad, so biased or so one-sided if both sides have won under that law and if- this is the important criterion- the percentage of seats won by the Government Party is pretty close to the percentage of votes which it gained across the country. That is the position. These proposals attempt to change that. 
I come reasonably briefly to some of the major aspects of this Bill, which is called a reform but which I say is a detrimental change to the electoral laws. For instance, the Bill seeks to prevent postal votes received after the close of the polling booths on polling day from being counted; it seeks to have them declared invalid. It may be that honourable members who have city electorates I have one- really do not understand the time that it takes for applications for postal votes in isolated regions to be received by the returning officer and for the ballot papers to be sent out. After all, the returning officer cannot send out the ballot papers until he knows the names of the candidates. They are not known until about 3 weeks before polling day. The ballot papers have to go out, be filled in and be returned. The existing law allows a 10-day period for that. That is not an unreasonable time, considering the state of the mails in this country, considering the isolation of many people in country areas and considering the rights and interests of the sick and infirm who have to cast votes in this way. 
One might ask: Why is it that this change is necessary? Is it terribly important to get the final result by the next morning? Is it worth disfranchising a significant number of peoplethis is a significant number of people- in order to get the result in a few hours rather than in 10 days time? Is it essential to have the government changed or confirmed in office as quickly as that? Is it a tremendous help to the commentators on television on election night to be able to see the votes in front of them as being final? Or is it, as the Opposition believes, that the Labor Party is not favoured by late postal votes and that at election after election those Australians who use their right to vote by postal vote tend to favour the non-Labor parties and therefore the Government would like to cut them out? That is what is really behind that provision. 
There are many provisions. One of the major ones relates to optional preferential voting. The Australian Labor Party had for a long time a policy of first past the post voting. It has now changed that to optional preferential voting, which is really a step on the way to first past the post voting. The Prime Minister has ambitions which include abolishing the Senate and either reducing the States to empty shells or getting rid of them, as he has referred to them many times as having boundaries which are anachronistic. He has shown that he is in favour of only one Parliament with one chamber and 2 political parties. He is a man who has a number of ambitions, and we are not sure whether all of them have been disclosed. Perhaps the Constitution itself needs to be heavily amended for his purposes. 
The Prime Minister for a long time has been a supporter of first past the post voting. Let me illustrate what that means. Anybody who votes for a candidate who is not one of the 2 major candidates- that cannot be known until the count has finished, or after it has started- does not get a vote at all. For a long time Australia has had the preferential voting system, in which all preferences are counted. The great value of that system of full preference voting- I am not going to get into a discussion of voting systems and counting systems in any great detail- is that every person who casts a vote has a say in who the elected candidate is, once the 2 major contenders, the 2 most favoured candidates, are known. That is a very fair system. It is a system which is employed by a number of organisations including, on many occasions, the Australian Labor Party in its own organisation, in order to get the fairest result. 
There is no such thing as the perfect voting system or the perfect counting system. Certainly some are better than others. The preference system is the one which has applied in the main in Australia for a long time. That system has the great advantage to which I have referred that everybody is given a say in an election in relation to choosing between the 2 most favoured candidates. The Labor Party wants to change all that. Originally, as I said, it wanted the first past the post system. That system means that anyone who votes for a minor party candidate has no vote at all. Votes for those candidates are eliminated as there is no distribution of preferences. Such voters in a real sense are disfranchised. The first past the post system takes away the rights of electors. It also eliminates the rights of candidates with little party support or candidates representing small parties to have counted whatever support they do have in the electorate. 
What the Labor Party now proposes in this measure, what we completely disagree with and will not agree to, is the proposal that the differences between the 2 systems should be met half way. It says that a voter does not need to complete all preferences. A vote will be counted even if only one preference is shown. That is an encouragement to the introduction of the first past the post system. I would not have any doubt that some if not all Labor Party candidates would try to encourage a situation in which not all the preferences were filled in. The system would be changed quite dramatically in that respect. 
Why does the Labor Party want to do this? It seeks to introduce the system because it believes that people who in the past have exercised their right to stand as minor candidates have been detrimental to the Labor Party. That Party has always desired to cut out the influence of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. It has desired not quite so much to reduce the influence in the past of Australia Party candidates, although that attitude may change shortly. But, on balance the Labor Party, as these minor candidates have acted against its interests, wants to eliminate their influence in future elections. That is what is behind this move. It is not to make work easier for the elector. It is not to get a fanresult. Its purpose is to assist the Labor Party. 
These are just 2 elements that one can pick out quite simply- that is, the postal voting system and the optional preference system- which are the opposite to what all our experience in Federal politics shows is required. Government members come into this place and implacably support these proposals. They will not consider for a moment the amendments that we have made, which are amendments of deletion. They try to say: 'This is obstruction. You are against reform'. This is like trying to enter into negotiations with a burglar to determine how one's assets should be divided. We will not have a bar of these proposals at all. They are a lot of nonsense. I conclude by saying that there is a number of provisions in the legislation which ought to be separated out. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answers given by his predecessor in April 1973 and on 22 March 1974 in reply to questions asking whether he had carried out any examination of the recommendations of the Manning Report into the operations of the Bills of Exchange Act and, in particular, recommendations that the law relating to cheques be covered in a separate Cheques Act, what has been the result of the further consideration which has been given to this and other recommendations. 
If the consideration is not yet concluded, when will it be. 
Will he ensure that full determination of these long outstanding matters is made shortly as they were not determined in 1974. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Morion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put 
-The Labor Government has just voted to prevent- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Labor Government has just voted to prevent this Bill from being put into operation on 1 July. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government failed to act on the recommendations of the Interim Poverty Report which was released several months ago and which recommended substantial increases in child endowment for example; if so, why. 
Will he ensure that the Government takes more urgent notice of the reports released recently by Professor Henderson so that an immediate start can be made on alleviating the problems outlined. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Have building grants for disadvantaged Catholic schools been approved for Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
If so, what are the details. 
If not, when will they be announced. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the rates charged for transport by VIP cars in Canberra owned by (a) the Government and (b) private enterprise. 
What is the average wage of drivers of Government VIP cars, showing the award amounts and average overtime. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1 9 1 4, what did the Government pay to Parmelia Hotel, Perth, for accommodation of any public servants or others who stayed there during the course of the Ermolenko affair. 
) Who were the persons. 
What were the details of amounts paid, and what was the total amount paid. 
Were there any amounts at that period paid to anyone such as security agents; if so, what were the amounts paid and the services provided. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he add his support to that of the British and American Governments and many prominent persons concerned in proceedings at the Nuremburg Trials to try to have released from captivity Rudolph Hess, who has now been in prison 34 years, and for the last 9 years sole inmate of Spandau Prison, Germany; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to his immediate predecessor's answer to part (5) of my question No. 670, what are precisely the other particular and general factors to which his immediate predecessor referred, when answering my question as to whether the Government agreed some allowance should be made for the enormous increase in oil import costs when comparing Australia's rate of inflation with that of other OECD countries. 
-The Opposition will vote against this motion. I want to draw attention immediately to the attitude displayed by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart)  in the prepared speech which he delivered in this House, a copy of which he handed to me 2 minutes ago for the first time.  His  speech underlined the attitude taken by the Government in this matter from the beginning which is that it is the perfect scheme. The Government offers this scheme to the Parliament, to the taxpayers as well as to Government employees on a take it or leave it basis- an all or nothing approach. That has been the attitude of the Minister and of other Ministers not only in this House but in the Senate. Their attitudes have been revealed as the debate has unfolded. 
We, of course, have just had a lengthy recess. This matter reached a deadlock situation because of the action taken by the Government in June this year. At no time during that recess did the Government mention to the Opposition what it was thinking about this matter. It did not indicate whether there could be a meeting of the minds on some of the points. The Government's attitude is that there is nothing to be said for any of the Opposition's amendments and that it will bring in a new Bill to deal with the situation. The Australian Labor Party is the Government. It has to govern and has to deal with the existing situation. The attitude that, after all the discussions that have taken place, Parliament should not be permitted to make any amendments to the Bill, that there ought not to be any changes to this scheme because it is of such great perfection, is obviously silly. Indeed, representations have been made to me by people relying on advice that has been given by the Government and, indeed, by some of its advisers that that is the attitude of the Government and that we, in the Opposition, had something of a cheek to disagree in any way with these proposals. If that were the case what is Parliament for? 
I should like to refer to one or two matters in the relatively short time I am permitted to speak because this matter will continue obviously in the future. It must. I start off with the point that an all or nothing approach was the attitude of the 
Government. When I stood in this place last, in June, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who is sitting at the table, could not wipe the grin off his face. He thought he had an election winner and that it would see the Government through because of the great number of Commonwealth employees concerned. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  who is in the chamber- I am not sure whether he made a speech or interjectedindicated he was very pleased that this situation had arisen. Now, of course, they are not so sure that they are on an election winner and the tone is more muted. 
The Minister for Tourism and Recreation talked about what happened on 5 June. He did not add, as he could have, that when we sought to respond on 5 June the debate was gagged by his colleagues who are sitting on the benches behind him at this moment. The Minister went on to recite the reasons adopted by the House. I hope that he will be gracious enough to recall that the Opposition voted against those reasons and that what he calls the decision of the House was a motion supported by Labor Party supporters only. Of course, the way the motion reads is biased. It talks about our proposals being detrimental to existing contributors- although that has been explained- and speaks of our proposals comparing unfavourably with superannuation schemes maintained by the State governments. We have explained ad nauseam that changes made in the schemes in two of the States flowed from the proposals of this Government. The changes in those schemes were as a result of those proposals. I believe that those States will rue the day they took that action. 
We in this place have a responsibility to look at Government proposals and proposed laws and to decide what is responsible and what is not. We recognise that the present superannuation scheme needs to be changed. We have emphasised every time this matter has come up for debate, and on behalf of the Opposition in Press releases and statements that I have prepared, the features of the new scheme that we think are desirable. But, when our amendments were moved, who was it who allowed the deadlock to continue so that the new scheme could not come into operation? It was the Government. The Government's insistence on that deadlock has meant members in their latter years of service will have to keep on paying the onerous contributions. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation has described these contributions as punitive rates. Of course they are punitive rates. This is the main disability in the present scheme. For the needs of most people, it must be changed. But, if the Government allows a situation to develop in which it will not accept amendments dealing with 3 areas of the whole superannuation package, that position will continue. 
In its statement, the Government says that it has found a reasonable solution. We believe that the solution that was found to the problems was unreasonable. In any package of superannuation proposals there is in each feature a range from generous to less generous. What the Government did in its proposals, we believe, was to choose the most generous aspect of every feature. We have pointed out four of these over-generous aspects and the Senate has agreed with three of them. We believe that those 4 aspects were overgenerous. We have sought to amend not the whole scheme but the proposals in those areas. There has been a deliberate muddying of the pool by the Government. 
You read your speech. It was carefully written by someone else. Perhaps you will allow me, in the 7 minutes that I have left - 
I was doing that, as you are aware,  Mr Speaker  - 
I was doing that. I wish to touch on some of the points which have been raised. My time is limited. No doubt the Minister for Tourism and Recreation will not seek to give me an extension of time to deal with these points which have been raised by way of criticism. 
I refer, first of all, to the policy of the Opposition in respect of the normal retiring age. We took considerable interest in the evidence that exists as to what should be the normal proper retiring age and came to the conclusion that the proper one was 65 years. The new scheme put forward by this Government proposed a normal retiring age of 60 years on full pension. The adoption of that retiring age would have resulted in a 30 per cent increase in the cost of the scheme. This increase would have been brought about by paying a pension for an additional 5 years and meeting the consumer price index adjustments to that pension. We referred to a schedule that was attached to the Bill as there was an indication in that schedule that people were to be encouraged later to retire at 55 years or between 55 years and 60 years. We noted that there was a discounting of 4 per cent of the pension for each year below 60 years. We thought that that was an appropriate discounting to make in respect of the pension paid to any contributor who retired at an age earlier than 65 years. That scale relating to a retiring age between 55 years and 60 years is indicative of the direction in which the Government was pointed in its approach to this matter. In this one area there would be a 30 per cent greater cost to the Australian taxpayers if a contributor was to retire at age 60 instead of age 65. 
We believe that the proper retiring age is 65. years. To say, as many people have, that by our proposal we are forcing employees to work to age 65 is playing fast and loose with the truth. The terms and conditions of employment are laid down in the Public Service Act and other Acts. It is for a member to decide when he wishes to retire. The question here is what amount of pension a member should receive on retirement at a given age. The Opposition says that, for a member retiring at 60 years, the payment of 80 per cent of full pension is a reasonable discounting as it is the rate of discounting which the Government was prepared to introduce for a lower age of retirement. The new scheme provides for a contributor the right to take a lump sum payment, together with other rights. The Minister would be aware that most of the conditions concerning existing members were to be covered by regulations. He has not let us see any draft regulations. We do not know what those details were to be. We would have envisaged that members who under our scheme opted to stay in the existing scheme would have perhaps some of those rights given to them including, among others that we could consider, the change in respect of the position of widows. 
This raises a matter of which I spoke earlier, namely, the need for some give and take and some discussion on this matter. By its whole manner and attitude, the Government has refused to do this. I might add that this is demonstrated particularly by the antagonism the Government displayed in the debate on these proposals in the Senate. As a result, these matters cannot have been fully discussed in a reasonable way because there has been no reasonable approach. Apparently we must now wait until this new Bill is presented to see what range of features it offers and how much the Government may wish to see itself in the role of buying votes and of being over-generous again. Perhaps it will be' identical. 
At times when I hear Ministers and other Labor supporters speak about these proposals I wonder whether they really know the costs that are involved in this scheme. What about the unions representing blue collar workers and also pensioner organisations which are complaining so much about these proposals? They are properly asking: Why is it that this Labor Government should be giving such advantages to one sector of the community? Why is it putting those in the Government service in such a superior position to those in superannuation schemes outside the Government service or indeed to those who have no superannuation schemes at all? The figures from the Government Actuary- these were produced pretty well at the last minute, when the debate on this matter was last heldshowed that if the Commonwealth were to set aside money for a funded scheme, which it does not do, approximately 23 per cent of the salaries and wages paid to Government employees would be required to meet the cost of that scheme. That is based on certain long range assumptions, including an inflation rate of 3.9 per cent and an interest rate of 5.5 per cent. It is very difficult to believe in the present conditions that even over a long period such rates are likely to be the case. 
We recognise that there would be some members in the existing scheme who would wish to stay where they are. On the principle that a promise has been made to them in that respect we believe that it is right to say to those people that if they want to stay in it is reasonable for them to opt for the existing scheme, although frankly I do not believe that many would stay in the existing scheme, in spite of some of the comments that have been made in this place. It can be a matter of judgment only. I do not believe that many would stay in the existing scheme. I think that some contributors in their last year or two of service might contemplate it. I doubt whether younger people would want to be locked into a position in which they thought they would remain for the rest of their service. There is a limit to what can be done in relation to the making of some sort of amendment from the Opposition side of the chamber. We of the Opposition are not in the position to make sweeping changes to the scheme and to look again at some of these things from the beginning. Broadly speaking, we can only lay down the general principles of what we believe should be the case and identify areas of over-generosity. If the Government digs in its heels and will not do anythingthat has been the situation until now- there is very little that we can do about it. The AttorneyGeneral refused in writing to give drafting assistance. 
People can point to this aspect and to that aspect and complain, but I believe that we have tried to adopt a reasonable approach to the matter. I believe also that many of the people who have been complaining have been anxious to believe the propaganda that has emanated from the Australian Labor Party and, indeed, have been misled by a few of their own trade union leaders. I think that they do not understand the cost involved and how relatively badly off are the people outside of the service of the Government who, after all, are also paying high income taxes and having their take-home pay reduced. They are not getting into a scheme that will allow them to be index-linked- tied to the consumer price index- and proofed against the ravages of inflation that is affecting the rest of the community. I have no time to go on further. The Opposition maintains its view. It is open to further consideration of the details if that is what the Government wishes. It is the Government. It has to govern. It has to face up to the situation. I think 1 have referred to enough items to make clear the Opposition's view and in general the principles behind its adoption. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1803 that was placed on the Notice Paper on 19 November 1974 and was unanswered by 23 May 1975. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1986 that was placed on the Notice Paper on 18 February 1975 and was unanswered by 23 May 1975. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to my Question No. 2657 wherein I asked what precisely were the other particular and general factors in respect of which the Government agreed some allowance should be made for the enormous cost in oil import costs when comparing Australia's rate of inflation with that of other OECD countries, and his reply, inter alia, that the Government inherited from its predecessor excessively easy financial conditions which contributed significantly to Australia's inflationary experience during 1973 and 1974, why did not he or the Government immediately take action to prevent this instead of greatly increasing the money supply. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What (a) incoming and (b) outgoing international flights pass through Perth Airport each week. 
What are (a) times, (b) flight numbers, (c) types of aircraft where applicable and (d) names of the carriers concerned. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 1808 will he now give more recent figures than those provided in the answer to that question. 
Will he also indicate how much more likely it is to have an accident on a motor cycle than in a motor car or station wagon. 
Is there any reason to believe the statistics given for Victoria would vary markedly from those in other States or the Commonwealth as a whole. 
Is it a fact that the number of casualty accidents involving vehicles per million occupant kilometres and the number of occupant casualties per million occupant kilometres whether for all accidents or fatal accidents indicates a fairly constant factor of 1 5 to 1 8 times. 
Will he provide similar statistics and comparisons for bicycle accidents. 
-The Opposition will oppose this Bill since it is the reintroduction in identical terms of a Bill which was brought to the House and the Senate some months ago. I wish to repeat some of the arguments which have been put forward by the Opposition. Firstly, I observe that the Government's aim in bringing this Bill forward again and in doing it in such a way that will add it to the storehouse of Bills that the Government seems to be preparing for a joint sitting of Parliament, must surely be a triumph of hope over experience. The prospect of a joint sitting of this Parliament in the near future is so far away over the horizon. I do not really believe that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is responsible for this Bill can possibly see a prospect of this taking place. Surely it must be on the blind insistence of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that we are here today debating this matter again. 
The overall aim of the Government, in presenting this Bill is, I believe, consistent with the proposals which the Government has put to the Parliament to change the electoral laws in a way that will give it political advantage. I say that deliberately. I have said it here before in respect of other Bills. One need only instance the attempts to change the Electoral Act and the extremely odd proposed boundary changes which were put to this House. These changes would have resulted in a situation where, if one were to look at the voting trends of recent elections, there would be a far greater percentage of anticipated Labor seats, expressed as a whole of all seats which were available, than the anticipated percentage of Labor votes in a given State. Of course, the resulting boundaries are never entirely in accord with overall percentages but one would expect them to be close. If Labor were to get 50 per cent of the votes one would expect it to get about 50 per cent of the seats, not about 60 per cent or 70 per cent of the seats which would have been the result, particularly under the scandalous proposal for New South Wales. 
We have debated a number of electoral Bills here. I understand that the Minister for Services and Property may be bringing back a number of Bills to replace a Bill which was defeated not long ago. But that remains to be seen. There were a number of proposals. I am on the record as having stated the attitude of the Opposition to that package of proposals which would have made life far more favourable for the Labor Party at election time. This Bill is in the same category, although I think that for some people it has some superficial appeal. 
I refer to what seem to me to be the 4 major purposes of the Bill. Regrettably they are party political purposes in favour of the Australian Labor Party. Firstly, there is a series of provisions that all candidates for Parliament should disclose the source of their financial support, with some exceptions; secondly, there is a provision that all political parties should have to disclose the source of their funds; thirdly, there is a series of provisions which provide for the appointment of registered party agents and official agents for disclosure of funds for auditing and for many other cost causing features which would add greatly to the cost, complexities, difficulties and general expenses of political parties. I interpose that that is certainly of interest to the Opposition parties, if not to the Labor Party with its great trade union backing. Fourthly, there are provisions in regard to the limitation of expenditure by persons or parties according to certain arbitrary requirements which have not been spelt out and explained and which do not appear to have any specific justification. On that point I add that there must be justification because I acknowledge openly the understanding of these matters by the Munster, to put the situation mildly. 
I am sure that anything which is contained in this Bill has the motive which I have already suggested. Of course the Minister will have an opportunity- I hope he exercises it in replying to this debate- to explain to us what the Bill is all about because that does not appear in his second reading speeches. The principal aim of the Bill is to make it difficult for persons to pay donations to political parties on the Opposition side. Exposure means that many firms will not wish to indicate that they want to support a political parry. Those which do and which are prepared to do so openly are of course immediately open to trade union pressures against their activities. Who, for one moment, would think in the present climate of trade union influence and activity in this country that they would hesitate for one minute to exercise that influence in favour of the Labor Party? Of course that brings us immediately to a consideration of the propriety of making donations to any political party. The fact is that if we are to have free elections then we cannot remove the right of people to support a candidate or a political party. 
It may well be that there are improprieties or injustices at times but we cannot remove that financing. All parties can operate only by the receipt of donations. I suppose the Australian Labor Party is in the privileged position of having very large donations made to it by the trade union movement and by business. The trade union movement is the Labor Party's special advantage. It can receive a lot of donations in cash and a lot of assistance in kind from shop stewards and trade union leaders. Facilities can be made available at election times and several unions can get together and pay for an advertisement without the cash passing through any Labor Party account or that of an honourable member. I shall come to that matter in a moment. So the Labor Party has that advantage. Sometimes in an advertisement the sponsors are apparently disclosed. Sometimes they are not. Nevertheless I simply point out at the beginning that the right of one to make a donation is a part of our democratic process. It could hardly proceed without the receipt of those funds. We know how important the receipt of those funds is to the Labor Party. There exists- I have a copy in my files- a letter which was sent out by the Prime Minister in the 1972 or 1974 elections to thousands of businesses asking for donations. Incidentally, the Prime Minister gave some assurances about the conduct of the Government towards business which read in a very ironic way now when one looks at the results. 
Of course. I hope the Minister will do me the courtesy of listening to my argument. I was not arguing against that for one moment. I have already told the House that that is an activity which is indulged in by parties. I am making the point, because the Labor Parry seems at times to indicate that it does not deal in this area, that those letters have gone out. I believe that in 1972 the Australian Labor Party received a substantial amount of money in that way. If it had wished and if it thought the principle of disclosure was so high, then why on earth did it not table details of the donations which it received? Here we are being told that this is an honourable thing to do and that anybody concerned with morality should make full disclosure. It is open to the Minister and to the Labor Party to make that disclosure if they wish to do so. I hope that in addition to the receipts they will give some details of how they encourage the donations. 
We know that the Labor Party had a number of meetings with businessmen and others in Melbourne and Sydney in 1971, 1972, 1973 and early 1974. Those dates and occasions can be supplied if the Government wishes to press the point. Certain moving speeches were made to those who came along. They were told that the Government was not socialist and not interested in nationalisation. As a matter of fact, they were told that the Labor Party was really a great friend of business and of equity and they were encouraged to make donations. The Labor Party has not willingly disclosed any of those details as to whom it got the donations from and to what purposes it put them. But what we do know, as it is on the record, is that a member who is in fact a back bench member of this Government, received from a certain company $74,000-1 think that sum is correct- and lo and behold we find out that the Prime Minister did not know anything about it. 

 Mr GARLAND Right. Under this legislation he would have. What I am saying is that if the Labor Party is so keen on this method- we are opposing the method in case that has escaped the Minister- why on earth was that not disclosed? Members of the Labor Party kept it a close secret I remind the Minister that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is the member concerned and a leading supporter of the Labor Party- he has just come into the chambera man I suppose whose views have to be listened to a little because he is a former  President  of the Australian Labor Party, had this to say: 
My criticism of the Bill is that it does not go far enough. 
This is the man who received all this money and did not tell anybody. 

 Mr GARLAND Yes, $74,000. 1 am reminded of the amount again. The honourable member for Port Adelaide said: 
My criticism of the Bill is that it does not go far enough. I would have no donations at all to political parties or to candidates. 
This is the recipent talking- 
I think all the money that is used to educate the people about policies of the various political parties ought to come from the public purse. 
We will come to that argument very quickly. Of course, that means that only established parties and the incumbents themselves are really given any assistance if the money is to come out in that way. The Americans looked into this system very closely and have seen at close quarters the fallacy of it. This Government of course actually adopts that principle in another way. It has set up a propaganda ministry in Australia. It is called, I think, the Department of the Media, is it not? Anyway, it is spending $35,000 a day. It must be pretty incompetent because the Labor Party on the polls cannot do better than 35 per cent of the total votes. Nevertheless, that goes to show what one can do when one is in government. One can employ hundreds of public relations men and print all sorts of material and send them around the country. That is why disclosure needs to be made, so that the Government will see where the money is coming from and try to lop it off if it is coming to the Opposition side, and continue to spend large sums on government official propaganda. 
We know also of the existence of a slush fund of which at least the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean)-  there may be more- are signatories. That apparently has been going on for a long time. I do not confine it to the present Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party. My understanding- the Minister for Services and Property might care to give us more details on this- is that large sums of money go into it and that nobody knows where they come from. I wonder why the Government requires this legislation to disclose all that detail. Surely, as a man of high principle- we know that the Prime Minister is a man of very high principlewhy has he not offered to the Parliament, since he has been the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of his Party, a list of all the sources? After all, this is a principle in which he believes. 
Surely the Prime Minister is not intending to insist on a quid pro quo because we can see from his record the high principle that is involved in this legislation. One can see it in his political appointments of the heads of departments and in the way he will not responsibly answer questions, either at question time without notice or, more importantly, questions put on notice which give him quite a lot of time to consider what he would say. But full responses are not given. 
It is becoming notorious among the Australian people that evasion is the stock in trade of the Prime Minister when questions are asked of him on television. Members of the Labor Party, I think, believe basically that anything can be done by the use of money. It is their attitude to government. In the last  2Vt  years we have seen a tremendous spending spree and an ignoring of where the funds were coming from. Of course the result has been economic difficulties for a large number of Australians. The Budget just brought in is an attempt at least to sort out some priorities, though of course it is a tragic Budget and will result in tremendous problems for Australians. 
We see here that when Government supporters are discussing money in relation to elections they believe that if people have a lot of money they will always win. A little earlier I made the point that the money being spent by the Government through the Department of the Media through its vast army of public relations men- they are a vast army- is nevertheless not having much success if its aim is to get votes. Who can doubt that is the aim? Government supporters have this preoccupation with disclosure which they hope will help them. As I have pointed out, it is part of their package to try to improve their electoral prospects. They believe that with these disclosure proposals they can frighten off a lot of people from making donations to the Liberal Party and the National 
Country Party while they, with their trade union resources, can go on from strength to strength. 
I make this point for the attention of the Labor Party- if a party is not acceptable to the public and if the public does not believe that it is doing a good job, then it does not matter how much money the party has. It will not make much difference. I have referred to the 4 major objectives of this Bill. I have referred in particular to the aim to provide for disclosure. I have referred to the imprecision of many of the provisions, the lack of justification offered as to why they should be implemented. I hope that we will hear something- we did not when the Bill was being debated last time either in this House or in the Senate- about all those gaps which may give more justification particularly to the fourth area that I mentioned. 
A very fine speech was made about this Bill by  Senator Missen.  Because the proceedings were interrupted, it commenced on 20 February this year and concluded on 25 February. I suggest that anybody really interested in this subject in an objective way should have a look at that speech. He quoted a document which the honourable member for Griffith,  Mr Donald  Cameron, had and to which he had referred on a number of occasions in this House. It was dated June 1974 and was written by a  Mr Bart  Lourigan who is, I understand, an important member of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland. There are a number of interesting things in the document. The honourable member for Griffith and I made sure that a copy was put on the table in the Library and it is available for anybody who is interested to read. I refer to a sentence on page 7 of that document. It is a report made about the shocking state of affairs in Queensland from the Labor Party's point of view at that time, and I do not think it has improved much since. This is what  Mr Lourigan  said in reporting to his Executive: 
Brisbane is the only State capital without a Federal Minister and the facilities which would normally be made available to one. To remedy this, the State President - 
This is of the Labor Party-  and the State Secretary requested  Mr Whitlam  - 
The Prime Minister-  to open a Press office in Brisbane manned by a member of the Prime Minister's staff. 
That request, I understand, was agreed to - 
-'Very much so' I am told by my honourable friend from Kennedy. Let us be quite clear and, if we can, try to draw some distinction between that document and the statement made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide which I quoted earlier. 
-Of course. It is coming out of Government funds. There is nowhere else it can come from and the only people who put funds into the Government's coffers are the taxpayers of this country. So there we have a blatant request, and that blatant request was answered in full, for Government support of Labor Party propaganda. It is also an illustration of the point I was making earlier that money does not cure everything in this world, because the Government has not done any better in Brisbane since the office was opened. But we have there an admission- the suggestion was accepted- that Government resources are being used for propaganda purposes. The point hardly needs to be made fully. Nevertheless, it is an open admission. 
I turn to another section of the Bill which calls for the creation of positions of Party agentsofficial agents- and which requires these persons to do a number of onerous things, including making returns after an election and dealing with donations that have been made in the flurry of the campaign and so on. It is all part of an effort of the Government to try to create disclosure on one side which will give the Labor Party some sort of advantage. Unfortunately, as I have said, the provisions of this Bill are clearly designed to provide, by typical artificial control, for the interests of the Party which is presently in power. 
I have made this point in respect of another electoral Bill. I believe it to be important. We should not as representatives of major political parties- let alone as representatives of the largest political party in this country- squeeze out the rights of individuals to stand. I know that in the history of elections in Australia independents have rarely been elected, but some have been elected. When they are elected they usually play an important part in the proceedings of the Parliament. I believe it is a very important principle in our parliamentary representative democracy that individuals have the right to stand and have the chance of being elected. I repeat that independents have been elected. When that has happened it has usually been for a very strong reason. It has been an expression of a strong feeling by the electors of this country. 
References have been made in various speeches by supporters of the Government to the situation which pertains in the United States of America and, in particular, to the debates which have been carried on there- with considerable sophistication- about election methods. Of course, much of that pre-dates Watergate. I might add that Watergate, of course, led to a lot of further discussion. In passing, I make the point that the 2 systems are not strictly comparable. Our system in the House of Representatives and our system of Cabinet responsibility are entirely different from the system in the United States. In Australia there is an executive outside the Parliament. In referring to political donations- coming closer to home- the trade union movement in Australia and its attitude to political parties is entirely different from that of the trade union movement in the United States. There is a complete difference in the relationship and political activities of unions in Australia from those which exist in the United States. I think it is regrettable, though perhaps it is changing, that the trade unions in the main are strongly on one side of the fence. Perhaps in business the reverse applies. Personally, I think I can see a breaking down in that attitude. I think the Government's recent efforts at managing this country have led many blue collar unionists to come to the conclusion that they are better off supporting the Liberal Party. Maybe one could identify one or two areas in which attitudes have gone the opposite way. 
I conclude on the note I have made in relation to other electoral laws, that if the Government was really sincere about trying to improve electoral laws and procedures- I freely admit that there are many difficult areas- an improvement could be achieved. The Government is inclined to use the more emotive word 'reform'. Everything the Government does is reform, but everything done by anyone with a contrary view is reaction. Of course, that is a lot of nonsense. There are no blacks and whites in this field at all. Dealing with the principles of this Bill, people clearly have the right to support candidates and parties. They should not be restricted unduly in exercising that right. Clearly, persons are entitled also to a high degree of privacy. Those two principles are clearly breached by this Bill. The clauses are unfair and, I believe, are in many cases unworkable. 
I should like to conclude by saying that if the Federal Government were sincere in endeavouring to get improvement, instead of bringing partisan Bills into this place it would endeavour to have some joint consideration of improvements by all parties, and if there are independent members perhaps they could be involved also, so that there could be some consideration and common ground could be found in many areas. For instance, when the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill was before us not very long ago there were many clauses with which the Opposition agreed. There were many with which we did not. agree because, as I have said, that Bill was an attempt to favour the Labor Party. The Government presented us with an all or nothing approach and so we had to defeat the whole Bill. 
-There is a lot of truth in that. The Government put forward those proposals. They were examined by the electoral officers and a good deal of common ground was found in them. But when the Government introduces in this place proposals which attempt to stop many people from making postal votes, which attempt to close down polling booths and which carries on this business of optional preferences- which the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has misrepresented so much- the Opposition, of course, has a view on it. What is more, in the present climate the Opposition is entitled to be particularly suspicious of the activities of the Minister and of this Government because of what we hear are the motives behind this Bill. I am suggesting that instead of introducing a Bill here and giving us a take it or leave it proposition, discussions should take place with the Opposition. The Government would have then a greater chance of the Bill being passed. The Government will not do that because it wants something that is partisan. This Bill is partisan. It is imprecise and, of course, the Opposition must oppose it. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the present position, that can be stated publicly, of the development of the Australian Sonobuoy System, 'BARRA'. 
Have sales been made; if so, what are the details. 
What publications or press releases record the developments since 1 December 1972. 
-The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  who has just spoken, is, I believe, assiduous in representing the views of his electors. The purpose of this debate is to enable members, particularly private members, to express any grievance on matters affecting the conduct of government. In the short time that is allowed to me today I rise to speak on the conduct of many Ministers of this Government, probably the majority of Ministers. I believe that it is valid and necessary to say that the present Labor Government is characterised in large part by incompetence, maladministration, waste, secrecy and evasion. I will give some illustrations of those claims. 
One of the rights which every citizen of this country has is the right to make representations to a Minister, if he or she wish through a member of Parliament. Every citizen has the right to expect that such representations will be dealt with quickly, fully and responsibly. This is a most important part of our parliamentary representative democracy. I have at present the largest bundle of outstanding representations to Ministers that I have ever seen in the period that I have been a member of this place. I can get very little response from most Ministers of this Government. The unreplied-to representations that I have make a pile four or five inches thick. Let me mention some of them very quickly. 
I mention first those dealing with immigration. This is a particularly bad area. I am sure that my experience is shared by other members in this place. I should not be at all surprised if this situation applied to Ministers themselves when dealing with other Ministers. I mention first the case of a Miss Carnevali- I apologise if I do not pronounce the name correctly- who is making representations on behalf of her sister and brother-in-law, a  Mr and Mrs Angelo  Gismondi. Sponsorship was sought on 18 October 1974. I made representations on 4 November. I sent a follow-up telegram to the then Minister for Labor and Immigration on 5 March 1975 after no response of any kind was forthcoming except for an acknowledgment of my letter, and that is useless. The Minister sent a letter on 12 May in response to this representation. That letter begged the question so much that additional representations had to be made on 22 May. Today is 21 August, and no substantive reply has been received. This is a bad case. It is one of the worst that I have, but it is by no means atypical of the whole situation. 
Under the Regional Employment Development scheme, a primary school in the suburb of Hollywood in my electorate according to my advice actually received approval from the then Minister for Labor and Immigration for a project. With the disruption that has gone on in the preparation and in the dealing with the Budget and all the chopping and changing that has occurred, that school has now been advised that the project has been cancelled. The school already has incurred expenditure of $2,000. We cannot get any reply of an urgent nature out of the Government. There is no response by telephoning, writing letters or sending telegrams. I am advised that there are many similar cases and that the whole administration of this scheme is a complete mess. 
For the first time in my knowledge one now has people desperately ringing and saying that the Government owes them such and such an amount for goods sold or services supplied and one has to ring up the Treasury or some other department and try to get the wheels moving so that those people will be paid. Surely to Heaven the Government has an obligation to pay quickly. One can send telegrams and letters or ring and get very little response in this respect. 
I turn now to the operation of the National Employment and Training scheme. I have had four particularly bad cases drawn to my attention in this respect. Of course, the people to whom I am about to refer were attracted to make their inquiries at the beginning in November of last year. They have come to me in desperation months later- in March or May. The 4 cases to which I am about to refer- there are more in the files- are still unresolved. A  Mr N.  Cote, who made an inquiry, was refused.  Mr Cote  has an appeal pending. He cannot get a reply. 
I made representations on behalf of a  Mr R.  Hall on 25 March. There has been nothing substantive in relation to them. I made representations on behalf of a  Mrs Wearne  on 28 April. There has been nothing substantive in relation to her.  Mrs Wearne  was encouraged by the Commonwealth Employment Service to enrol as a trainee in the Nedlands Teachers Training College. They said to her: 'Your application will be approved. You are in the category of those who will be approved'. So she enrolled. She has 4 children to support. She engaged in such study because she had been encouraged to do so. I repeat that the Minister has not given a substantive reply to my representations on her behalf. 

 Mrs Robin Bremner was also assured by the Department that she would qualify under the scheme. She did not qualify. She has lodged an appeal. The appeal is to be held in Melbourne. She has since been told by departmental officers that the only thing they can suggest for her to do is to get in touch with her member of Parliament so that he can make representations. She did so and I made representations. What has happened in relation to them? Absolutely nothing. A telegram was sent on 13 May. No response has been received to it. One of those people has written in a letter to me that the NEAT scheme appears to have been 'ill planned and poorly administered'. I can only commend her for her restraint because obviously the conception and administration of this scheme is incompetence in the extreme. The people to whom I have referred sit during their courses besides people who are receiving aid and who are in comparable positions. 
Surely the whole situation has reached a ridiculous stage when members of the Public Service, feeling no doubt out of a sense of decency that they have to say something to these people, have to say to them: 'Look, we cannot get any quick response. We suggest that you go to your member of Parliament and get him to raise the matter'. The acknowledgement by Ministers of letters written to them is perfunctory. I suppose the making of such an acknowledgement is polite but it does not get one anywhere. One wants a substantive result to representations, even if the answer is no. In many cases the decision may not be the right one, but at least the person concerned knows where he or she stands and is not going to continue to incur expenditure and to run up liabilities unnecessarily. One may follow up a matter by way of a telegram and still not get action taken any more quickly. 
From time to time I have heard it stated by certain people that they have not got sufficient staff. For heaven's sake, these new schemes were instituted by this supposedly bright, radical Government. The Government went to the people and said that it was going to do this, that and the other and those matters were debated and voted upon. The Government should not be saying that it has not got enough staff to deal with the problems which it has caused. That is no excuse. I say that the Government has a deep responsibility to regard the administration of its schemes seriously and not as something to be left to others and to be ignored. That results inevitably in much waste and dilatory conduct. It should be made quite clear that it is for the Ministers to insist upon efficiency being shown by their staffs and their departments. If the administration of a scheme is beyond a Department then that is something that the Minister and the Government ought to have weighed up at the beginning. 
I say that the whole tone of the actions of the Government has been to neglect the area of administration, which causes waste and extravagance. When Ministers stand up in this Parliament, as they did during question time this morning, and talk about their generosity they should remember that the money they are spending is the money of the taxpayers of this country. Figures have been supplied, in response to questions that have been asked, that indicate that the Ministry has double the number of staff employed by the previous Government. There is now double the staff on double the salaries with double the degrees, with every office machine and aid known to man and with a vast Public Service back-up. We have already had certain hard evidence of inefficiency in this field. We have had the comment by  Dr Anthony,  who was the Private Secretary of a Minister, that there were a thousand unanswered queries, or something to that effect, on his Minister's table. We have had a most illuminating statement by a former Secretary of the former Treasurer, who said that the filing system was not well kept. In fact, he went on to explain that everything was kept loose and that one had to shuffle through everything in order to find documents. That was happening in the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia. Surely to Heaven the situation has reached a ridiculous stage. I make a plea to the Government to endeavour to overcome the problems. Beset as it may be by its political problems, the adminstrative problems are its responsibility to overcome. The Government is creating hardship, anxiety and expense to thousands of Australians by its reprehensible conduct. 
In directing my question to the Treasurer, I refer to answers that he gave to questions in the House last week and to his Budget presented last Tuesday. My question is in 2 parts: First, will he state precisely, since the Budget deficit is to be so much greater than ever before, how it is to be financed? Secondly, as the deficit is estimated in a full year to be $2,800m and one-quarter of that amount has been incurred in July alone- we do not know how much that may have increased in the last 3 weeks- will he give the House and the country an assurance that by the end of the year the deficit will not greatly exceed $2,800m for the whole year? 
-The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has a reputation as a  speaker  and has a number of admirers, but I think really what we have discovered from listening to him tonight is that he can find very little that he is able to grapple with or indeed rebut in the speech that was made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I think perhaps that indicates the difficulty the Government Party will have in answering the many points made and the many specific proposals outlined by the Leader of the Opposition. I say to the Minister, since he raised the question of education, that surely the most important aspect of his present position must be that he is the first Minister for Education to have rejected these reports which have been presented to him and by him to the Parliament. He has asked for these further reports to be made to him by March 1976. They are to begin in January 1977. I use the word 'rejected' in relation to reports because if he envisages this matter goint on so far it is obvious that the present reports on education made to him have been canned by him and by the Government. It also shows that the Government has been prepared to make some cuts in education. When he criticises the cuts suggested by the Leader of the Opposition he is regarding education expenditure as less important than the cuts proposed and mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Minister mentioned the position of the coal excise put on by the Government. Surely the major issue in relation to coal is that it will cause direct unemployment in many companies. That, surely, is an example of desperation budgeting by the Government. I believe we do not have to argue for long about that situation. We will find in very short order what will be the results of what I believe is a reckless policy. We will find out whether the much vaunted Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  understands as much about this subject as he thinks. Lastly, the Minister referred to the Leader of the Opposition making generalisations in his speech. He must surely have written that note before he heard the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. The points made were all too specific for him and I believe for many others in the community. The fact was that the Leader of the Opposition dealt with his cuts and further promises very specifically, giving both the detail and the principle behind them. After all, why would he not do so? Of course the Leader of the Opposition and many of his colleagues are former Ministers who understand the need in government to look at these things in more detail. They understand what is involved. 
The Minister talks about discipline making things possible and German history. Goodness me! Surely what is notable about the conduct of this Government since it was elected in 1972 and what we see exemplified in this Budget is the maladministration, the wasting, the extravagance and the many programs which were ill planned and impractical. The truth is that almost all the problems faced by the Budget are the making of the present Labor Government. The Budget has great deficiencies and it fails to deal adequately with 2 major problems facing the economy. Firstly, the Government has done practically nothing to encourage the private sector. The private sector is still the employer of three-quarters of the workforce in Australia and is the only sector in the economy with the capacity to create full employment. 
Most industries have for some time adopted a survival strategy. Profits are low, taxation is extremely heavy, and inflation and taxation have removed reasonable certainty and hence confidence from their operations. In such conditions, with the continuance of the private sector itself under challenge, the dropping of company tax by 2V4 per cent and a double depreciation allowance for one year only are puny concessions. They have resulted in a reaction of despair from industry leaders which will lead to a worsening situation. Apart from the survival of the private sector the level of unemployment of jobs is involved. It is notable that the Treasury Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech indicates an increase in existing unemployment: It is conditional in so many ways that one wonders whether the result can be as good as even it indicates. For if firms and employers are pushed to the wall, even higher unemployment must take place. 
Secondly, nothing has been done or said to indicate that the Government has been prepared to face up to the problems of industrial turmoil and excessive wage claims by some unions which create hardships for trade unions and for others alike. The concept of income tax indexation and the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Inflation and Taxation, appointed by this Government and chaired by Professor Mathews- a representative of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is on the Committeehave been rejected by this Government. The Leader of the Opposition on behalf of the Opposition has tonight announced the great recognition we take of those recommendations and the importance we place upon them. The Mathews Committee report is of great importance because the Australian Council of Trade Unions representative is a signatory to it. Furthermore its recommendations are important in equity. I repeat, it is important politically in getting some sort of meeting of the minds. Trade unionists are demanding taxation reform and the new proposals in this Budget just do not answer that demand. When these workers understand the effect on their rising wages their protests will be loud and clear. 
The present scale of tax deductions each week or fortnight will continue at their present very high level until the end of December- months off. Wage indexation was intended as a policy to allow the rejection of other wage rises, but that policy has all but collapsed. In the Budget the Government proposes to exclude from the consumer price index its new cost rises. Probably the Conciliation and Arbitration Court will not agree to that by January, even if the CPI is down as it may well be in the September quarter. Either way it will result in turmoil and could well make matters worse. I think those comments indicate the difficulties that the Government has got itself into as a result of 2V4 years of economic irresponsibility. As one commentator said, the Government has painted itself into a corner. On the general economic forecasts, the Treasury economic statement No. 2 is far more cautious than the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  Indeed, the little optimism displayed in that statement is so qualified that it emerges with an almost alarmist tone overall. The criticisms by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development- that prestigious international economic body- of the Australian economy released about 2 weeks ago, of course, were based on information supplied by our own Treasury. This was endorsed by the Treasurer in his Press statement No. 53 which states: 
Announcing the release the Treasurer recalled that the Survey was based largely on discussions and consultations which took place earlier this year. The OECD mission had visited Canberra in March 1975 and the formal consultation with the Economic and Development Review Committee of the Organisation took place in Paris on 1 3 June 1 975. 
Politically, in spite of the views of a number of commentators, I believe that the Government's Budget will quickly fail. Firstly, the private sector is in bad trouble and it has told the Government already, since last Tuesday night's announcement, in no uncertain terms what it thinks and, in particular, what it thinks of the value of its socalled encouragement. Secondly, the trade union movement is shaken by high taxation, insecurity and turmoil. The rank and file trade unionist is exerting himself to a greater extent against the trade union leadership. The Government's measures will aggravate the position in an area in which it has allowed a situation of no law to develop. The Government has destroyed relativities between the unskilled, the skilled and the semi-skilled and destroyed with them the will to work in every corner of this land- work which is needed to produce what we all need to live well on. 
Thirdly, the income tax restructuring is of arguable value and is intended to replace tax indexation. Further, its effect will not be felt until January 1976. We are living in a volatile period in which long term is almost tomorrow morning. The high increases in indirect taxes on beer, cigarettes, petrol, etc., have immediate effect. All the bad aspects of this Budget have immediate effect; the alleviations are deferred for five or six months. The present high pay-as-you-earn tax scale will continue for the rest of this calendar year. On radio and elsewhere the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been telling us of the marvels of this new income tax scheme. I refer to the Budget figure which shows that the amount of the reduction of income tax will be $205m out of a 
Budget of $23,000m. That $205m is less than the rise in taxation on beer alone. So who will pay for all these remarkable advantages which are to be given to people? Somebody will pay for them. It is a little difficult from the mass of statistics in a few days to identify who will pay, but let us not be under any misapprehension- somebody will pay to offset the reductions that take place and in many cases that will be the individual taxpayer. 
The tax rise will go on inexorably in Australia. Whatever is the tax rate today, it will be more and more as wages must rise in order to meet price rises. So, whatever the existing rate is, it will be higher soon as wages and salaries necessarily rise. The Government has failed to face up to the fact that the pay rises which must be granted because of cost of living rises will go more and more into the payment of income tax so that the Government can decide how it will spend a person's money for him. Fourthly, government spending is still continuing at an extremely high level. Expenditure in this Budget is to rise by 23 per cent. Much of it will be wasted and spent on badly conceived and maladministered programs. I believe that increasing discontent with these matters, increasing unemployment and high inflation rates will soon show to all the failure of the 1975-76 Budget as an instrument to improve the security and the wellbeing of Australians. 
I remind honourable members that the Budget is an estimate. On the record of this Government, it will be greatly departed from in the reality. Last year the deficit was announced at a relatively moderate sum. It ended at a gigantic sum. The increase in expenditure last year was 46 per cent. It is only because that rise was so massive and irresponsible that one can look at a 23 per cent increase with any sort of optimism. The fact of the matter is that the Budget will create hardship. At question time today in respect of his Budget the Treasurer said: 'Every effort will be made to maintain the economic strategy which has been outlined in the Budget'. How weak can one get? How weak can a statement of confidence be about a proposal not yet cold after being delivered at this very table? Can we really believe that the Regional Employment Development scheme, to name one large item of expenditure, is to be put to rest in the way that is suggested? The only question can be whether the program will be re-enlarged next week or in two, three, four or five weeks? It is not a question of the scheme being put to an end. So, expenditure will rise even more than 23 per cent. Does anyone believe that at the end of June next the deficit will be restricted even to the vast amount which is proposed in this Budget? 
The State budgets, about to be announced, also will have a tremendous impact on the taxpayers and citizens of Australia. I think it is not realised in the hue and cry that goes on how hard was the bargain against the Premiers when they sat in this chamber not very long ago. But we will find that out when we see State charges increased enormously very soon. There is a tendency by the Government to regard its money, Australian Government money, as its own. But I just make the point - 
Indeed. As my honourable member friend suggests, it comes from the taxpayers. It is not the Government's money. It is not its generosity. Most of those taxpayers live in States. They are citizens of a State and under a State government as much as under a Federal government. So, it is right that a certain amount of their taxation money should go to the States to provide State services. I point to one matter to which not much attention has been drawn, namely, the diminution of the amount to be made available to the building industry. This is a large industry in Australia and it is bound up with growth. It is not some will-o'-the-wisp enterprise. Many people are employed in the industry. In this Budget as it is framed there is to be a great reduction in expenditure in this industry and there must be consequential unemployment. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, the deficit of $2,800m is too high and yet - 
It certainly does seem a lot. It is not some economic will-o'-the-wisp. It represents expenditure exceeding the amount that is to be recovered. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table of the deficit to the end of July. The deficit for the first 4 weeks of this financial year was no less than $756m- a quarter of the budgeted deficit. This table is an official Treasury document. 
I thank the House. I point out that, although July may be not entirely a typical month, the indication is that we are headed towards an even greater deficit. This, of course, is why the Opposition is demanding some indication from the Treasurer as to how that deficit is to be financed. More will be said about this in the debate on the Loans Bill because it involves the interest rate policy in this country and it involves the money supply in respect of which the Treasurer has announced some sort of policy. We see, from a statement the Treasurer issued tonight, that the last loan raised $68 lm, but when we get down to it we find that $400m of that is required for repayments so the net gain is $28 1 m. That will not go far in the figures that we are talking about. We are not asking the Treasurer to be exact or precise but we are asking for a policy statement on it. I think it is clear that we are headed for an interest rate rise. 
One could go on pointing out contradictions that appear in 'Economic Outlook' and all the details involved but I conclude by saying that economic conditions in Australia are harsh, are causing hardship to Australians and are getting worse. It is not necessary in a country that has as many advantages as Australia has, and it has to be the result of gross mismanagement and incompetence, which is another way of saying that this present Labor Government is unfit to govern. The Budget will not help decisively because it fails to recognise the extent of the difficulties facing the people of Australia and the sensible measures that are necessary. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition. 
I seconded the amendment and I can assure the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  that the Opposition has no intention of withdrawing its amendment, for reasons which have been put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and which I will try to elaborate as I proceed. I interpose to say what a pleasure it is to see the former Treasurer in his formerly familiar role. One cannot help wondering whether, if he were still Treasurer, the Budget would be as it is presented to us with a deficit of the size proposed. 
There is nothing hypocritical about that statement. If the honourable member had listened carefully to the Minister's remarks I think he would have detected, as I did, that the Minister was indicating that the projected deficit was likely to change. He tried to confine that to a limit of about $ 100m on either side of the projection but his earlier remarks- I invite the honourable member to read them when they are published tomorrow morning- rather emphasised that one could not predict what the outcome would be. That tended to throw some considerable doubt on what the actual size of the Budget deficit might turn out to be. That is a point the Opposition has made somewhat forcibly in the course of the last week. From our knowledge of the history of Labor Government budgets there is little possibility that the real position by 30 June will be in accord with these proposals which are being discussed in such detail. 
This Bill authorises the transfer of loan funds to Consolidated Revenue for defence purposes. Loan funds can be drawn on for defence expenditure or temporary purposes- a familiar phrase of late- and for such amounts as are agreed by the Loan Council under the Financial Agreement. That is provided for by section 105A of the Constitution. Consolidated Revenue draws its principal standing from section 81 of the Constitution which, since it is brief, I quote: 
All revenues or moneys raised or received by the Executive Government of the Commonwealth shall form one Consolidated Revenue Fund, to be appropriated for the purposes of the Commonwealth in the manner and subject to the charges and liabilities imposed by this Constitution. 
I should have thought the clear implication is that Consolidated Revenue therefore cannot go into deficit. Because it is provided by the Financial Agreement that funds can be drawn for defence purposes, this is a reasonably convenient method of supplementing the deficit that otherwise would appear in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
I propose to raise a number of questions on this matter because there are some aspects that I do not understand. I am not sure whether the explanation is as I will suggest it to be, but I invite the Treasurer here or the Government on another occasion in the Senate to consider and to answer these questions and no doubt others that will be raised. Clearly we are operating in very difficult economic times and the size of the proposed deficit is so great that the Opposition believes it is entirely justifiable on this measure and others, to raise matters of concern to us which are certainly of concern to the people of Australia. 
I refer to clause 3 (8) of the Financial Agreement because I think that the supremacy of the Financial Agreement is not always fully recognised; perhaps it is to a greater extent by some economists. It reads: 
The Commonwealth and each State will from time to time, while Part III of this Agreement is in force, submit to the Loan Council a program setting forth the amount it desires to raise by loans during each financial year for purposes other than the conversion, renewal or redemption of existing loans or temporary purposes. Each program shall state the estimated total amount of such loan expenditure during the year, and the estimated amount of repayments which will be available towards meeting that expenditure. Any revenue deficit to be funded shall be included in such loan program, and the amount of such deficit shall be set out. Loans for Defence purposes approved by the Parliament of the Commonwealth shall not be included in the Commonwealth's loan program or be otherwise subject to this Agreement. 
I have quoted this clause because, I repeat, I believe the supremacy of the Financial Agreement is not always fully recognised. This Bill is substantially about that proviso in that clause of the Agreement in respect of defence expenditure and therefore a transfer is necessary. 
It would appear to me, reading the document entitled 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1976', which was tabled with the other Budget documents, that what is probably regarded as the estimated limit to be transferred is the sum of $ 1 , 1 52. 1 m set out on page 1 0 under the heading 'Amount chargeable to Loan Fund '. That is the first matter I would like to have confirmed. That sum appears to be related, though not quite exactly, to the sum of $ 1 , 1 5 1 .9m which appears in Table 2 on page 7 of the same document under the heading 'Reconciliation of Budget Statement Functional Headings with the Transactions of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, Loan Fund and Trust Fund'. I do not know what the difference is but I would like to know. So there are 3 questions which I would like answered. I would like to know whether these figures are the intended limit of the amount to be transferred in accordance with this Bill. Of course, the Bill does not set any sum; it sets a formula. As I understand the formula this is the amount that would be estimated by the Budget, although in reality it may turn out to be more. 
Yes, I will certainly refer to that footnote. I take it that the Minister is referring to footnote (c) on page 10? 
-Footnote (c) reads: 
The amount chargeable to the Loan Fund under the provisions of a proposed Loan Act - 
And this is the proposed Loan Act-  is a residual balancing item. The amount charged will reflect all the other variations from the estimated receipts and expenditure of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Any 'estimate' must therefore be a highly qualified figure. 
That was what I meant when I said that if the expenditure was greater or there were reasons for drawing more that would be something aside from what was being estimated in these figures. As I understand it, what is estimated at present is the sum to which I have referred. 
Yes, quite. I think that might call for more explanation. The other point that strikes one is that the Bill seems to have been introduced very early in the financial year. I have not looked at tins aspect in great detail but I am aware that the 1969-70 legislation was passed on 20 June 1970 and in the following year on 17 May 1 97 1 . The only explanation that is apparent is that the Government's deficit is so great that it needs the money more urgently this year. Here we are not yet at the end of August and the Bill has been introduced. An explanation as to why the Bill is necessary so early would be certainly helpful to the Opposition. 
Yes. No doubt the Government has advisers, some of whom I presume are busily advising the next speaker at the moment so that he can sound erudite. No doubt this question can be explained in reasonably cogent and hopefully persuasive language in due course. But as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said in his remarks, what concerns us too is the effect of this legislation on economic policy as it relates to the financing of the deficit or financing of the whole Budget. We are particularly concerned, and we believe that the country is concerned, because of the tremendous deficit and the economic mess that the Government has got this country into. 
In my view we cannot say that this legislation is a machinery matter, that we will just put it aside and we will vote for it blindly. We say that this is part of the economic package. The way in which these machinery matters are dealt with is important. We want some explanation of this. Therefore we have moved an amendment. The amendment recognises at this stage- I emphasise the words 'at this stage'- that passage can be given to the Bill. We recognise that the Government has a majority in this place. But we are raising these questions for answer before the legislation is passed in the Senate- I emphasise the words 'before the legislation is passed in the Senate'- because we believe that there are aspects that are very unusual. 
I have briefly referred to a number of things that the Minister said in his remarks. He said that deficits are nothing new. Of course, deficits of this size are very new. It is the scope, the ramifications and the possible consequences because of the changed situation that makes us doubtful. We believe, and I say this deliberately, that we are entitled to some suspicion about these matters because of the very unusual circumstancesand I put it as mildly as possiblethat exist in the economic state and in the budgetary context that has been put by this Government to the Parliament. We propose to look at this matter and to call on the Government to come clean and not just to give us explanations which are patronising and which can, I suppose in some quarters, be described as waffle. We want to know what this all means and what its effect is likely to be. 
I want to take up another technical point which relates to a difference between the drafting of this Bill, and the drafting of the legislation which was assented to on 20 June 1970, for instance. The words 'from the Consolidated Revenue Fund' in line 13 of clause 3-1 will not read the whole clause because not only is it lengthy but it is difficult to understand without a close, quiet reading- replace the words 'apart from this Act' in the otherwise identical Bill of 1970. That is a technical question to which we would like an answer. The answer may relate to drafting; it may be more substantial. We would like to know the precise answer. 
I would now like to come back to the size of the deficit- an amount of $2,800m. We believe the likelihood of the Government confining the deficit to this amount to be very slight. Certainly the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has said enough in answer to questions and the Minister for Overseas Trade has said enough to indicate certain doubt in their minds. One can look, for example, at expenditure on the Regional Employment Development scheme in this regard. As I said last night in the Budget debate, surely it is only a question of when expenditure for this purpose will be upgraded and increased by this Government. Will this happen next week- in 2 weeks, 4 weeks or 6 weeks? This will happen? The Government will push the button and as soon as it does that will be the end of the restraint in the Budget and the first departure will be made from the Budget strategy. 
I asked the Treasurer a question yesterday to which he replied: 
Every effort will be made to maintain the economic strategy which has been outlined in the Budget. 
That does not sound very convincing; it does not sound to me to be a very strong will. On the contrary, it sounds to me to be a recognition that it is going to be almost impossible to keep to the Budget strategy. These are matters which are not of a machinery nature; they are matters that involve 
Australia's finance, the future security of Australians, their employment opportunities and their welfare. 
The speech made by the Treasurer in introducing this Bill seems to me to be a little obscure in some parts. I refer to the beginning of the second paragraph which reads: 
The prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is only part of the estimated overall deficit . . . 
I emphasise the words 'which is only part'. I am not sure whether I have made the right interpretation of that sentence. Does it mean that $ 1 , 1 52m is part of $2,800m? Perhaps that can be explained. The Treasurer went on to say: 
When this Bill is enacted I shall move an amendment to Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1975-76, to permit defence expenditure specified in that Bill to be charged to Loan Fund. 
Does that mean that it is to be reduced by $1,1 52m? If not, what sum is intended? In any case, since it is consequential on the passing of this Bill, that is an element of interest to the Opposition. 
The Treasurer, in answer to a question that I asked him yesterday, made a number of intriguing statements. We have tried to press him to give us more information about his intention of financing this deficit. Really all we have had from him has been a lot of gobbledegook. He said: 
No Liberal-Country Party government was ever able to give a precise or even reasonably general detailed program of the under-the-line financing of the government's transactions. 
Of course, no Liberal-Country Party government ever dreamed of having a deficit of this scope, even as a percentage. We are aware that in finding the money to balance that deficit the Government could let loose other forces in the economy such as a rise in interest rates, which would go right through the community. I am sure that that would be of interest to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan). 
The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  said a moment ago that the Government had done well in its loan raisings and that they were the highest on record. That has to be discounted by the value of the money anyway. But making allowance for that, the repayments out of the $68 lm that was raised are $400m. So the net receipt of $28 lm becomes rather small compared with the amount of the deficit. The fact is that the Government's prospects for raising loans of any great proportion are pretty dim. The Treasurer's answer yesterday seems to indicate that he is looking for as much as he can get in the way of loans. I do not know why he did not say so more specifically. But he will have to raise a substantial amount of loan money and, to do that, increase interest rates. He said that there are a full 12 months to go yet. Of course there are not. There are only 1014 months. The first   Vi  months have shown an enormous deficit. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Last Thursday morning during the Grievance Day debate I drew attention to the slowness with which honourable members received replies to representations made on behalf of their constituents and in particular from certain Ministers. Last night the Minister for Housing  (Mr Riordan),  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Labour and Immigration in this House, attempted to respond to certain instances that I had mentioned. Really what he had to say last night was so incomplete and such a misrepresentation that I take this opportunity again of drawing attention to the matter. It is clear that the Minister does not take it seriously and is attempting to brush it aside and assert that the Department of Labour and Immigration has done all that is possible in the matter. That is quite false, as I will demonstrate in a moment. 
I want to say this because it seems to be a debating technique of this Minister to start off with a misrepresentation of what one said and to proceed from that point. I said nothing in criticism of officers of the Department because I do not have any evidence relating to that. If I had I would not hesitate to criticise. But I said nothing about that. I add that I appreciate that the Minister has not been in this position for very long, nor has the Minister for Labour and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland).  As a matter of fact it has been my experience that the latter Minister's rate of reply is a considerable improvement over that of his predecessor. 
I am glad to hear honourable members agree with that. 
-My colleague has said that and I am happy to say that that is my impression. But those are not the matters to which I was addressing myself. I gave certain instances and I talked about having the greatest number of outstanding representations that I have ever had in my files. When I said that a lot of honourable members on my side of the House and members on the Government side of the House agreed. They have more outstanding representations than ever before. I did not go through the whole file. I brought out the modest number of 6 cases. My main complaint- apparently I will have to use words of one syllable- is that I do not receive quick replies. I was not arguing the merits of the cases. I was not arguing about the National Employment and Training scheme, about whether somebody was appealing or about whether there was reason for an appeal to be rejected. I was complaining about the slowness of replies. 
I point out that one private secretary to a Minister said publicly that his Minister had 1000 unanswered letters in his office. Another Minister is on the record which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  reluctantly tabled in this House in relation to the loans issue as saying that the office of the former Treasurer of this country was awash in unfiled paper and the reason that he found the infamous Harris letters was that he was flicking through a lot of unfiled material trying to find something else. Let us go to the cases that the Minister attempted to justify. It is not altogether easy to follow what he was saying because he did not mention names. He said that the first application for assistance under the NEAT scheme was rejected- or course, I said that- and that a reply was sent to me on 1 August. I would like to know to whom it was sent because I have had my files re-examined and there is no letter there dated 1 August that I can see. I was speaking first of a  Mr Cote.  I said that I had written to the Minister on 21 May. I had a letter of acknowledgement and a comment that senior officers would review the case. That was 3 months ago, and that was not the first letter in the file. 
The Minister said in respect of a  Mr Hall,  I think- another applicant who was refused assistance under the NEAT scheme- that he was cur.rently pursuing a course of training under the tertiary education allowance scheme. Then he asked rhetorically whether I wanted that person to be paid twice. What I want is a reply following the useless acknowledgement I received on 15 April- 4 months ago. And that was not the first. The representation was made on 25 March. The Minister went on to say that he had not received any letter in respect of one case. I say that it is obscure because it is hard to understand to which case he was referring. I think it was the case of a  Mrs Wearne.  I have an acknowledgement letter from  Mr Robert  Lawrence, the private secretary of the then Minister for Labor and Immigration, dated 7 May in answer to my representation of 28 April. I sent a reminder telegram on 13 June. Today is 27 August and I have received no acknowledgement of any kind. The same applies to the case of  Mrs Bremner.  Application was made by this person in October 1974 and refused in February 1975. It took that woman 5 months to get a response. I made representations on 15 August in another case. This is a relatively recent one. An acknowledgement was received on 19 August. That may be the case in which the letter of 1 August was mentioned. I do not know. But I think that I have said enough to indicate that there was a great deal of misrepresentation in the speech last night. 
I turn now to the infamous case of the application for immigration by some Italian people. The Minister really excelled himself here in his misrepresentation. He made the point that the man was an army officer, that they did not want army officers here, and so he was refused. The Minister had incorporated in  Hansard  a letter from the former Minister indicating that the application had been refused on that ground but that they were looking into the ground. The man also had qualifications in civil engineering. The Minister went on to say that it was found that there was no demand for such qualifications. There were job applications and job opportunities on the file sent to the Minister. How can he say that there was no demand in Australia when that had already been seen to? 
The Minister mentioned that the man had not presented himself for a medical examination. That in itself is a weighty point, so why produce all this other irrelevant material and say that that was the basic reason? If that is the holdup why have we not had any further communication since 12 May of this year advising us of that fact? The position is ludicrous. It undermines the whole case and makes me believe that there has been an attempt at excuse-making here and that there is no will to get on with it. 
There has been aU this talk about receiving 65 000 representations in relation to immigration pOliCy, but who changed the immigration policy? The previous Government did not receive representations of that order. The fact is that the Government has started aU these programs and has not put itself in a position to handle the administration of them. That is the fault of the Government. It has a duty to administer matters fairly and quickly. Private members make representations on behalf of almost anybody who wishes us to pass them on. One does not necessarily endorse them, but people are entitled to have a fair judgment made of their requests and representations and they are entitled to have it made quickly. 
The honourable member thinks he is a very funny man but it has not got him anywhere so far. I will conclude with this remarkable statement by the Minister when he decided to defend the officers and schemes of the Government. He said: 
That scheme will stand as a monument to his name. 
He was referring to  Mr Clyde  Cameron. We all know what is inscribed on the tombstones, memorials and the monuments and I doubt whether that really compliments the work of the former Minister. But he will be known to many people in the community as a Minister who left unanswered, or very slowly answered, an enormous amount of mail. When the Government has a program that attracts people to make applications, the people are entitled to a reasonably quick response as well as a just one. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Approximately what sum has been (a) paid and (b) authorised for payment under the RED Scheme. 
To which bodies or persons have sums been approved. 
What percentage of the total sum approved has been applied to each State. 
What sum for approved projects has been provided by each of the bodies or persons in each case. .(5) Have the criteria for approval of projects changed since the inception of the Scheme and; if so, what have been those changes, and when were the changes made. 
Do proposals by local authorities for weeding, lawnmowing, laying footpaths and tree pruning qualify; if they qualify under certain conditions, what are those conditions. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to Question No. 539, asked by  Senator Missen  in the Senate, why is it that the details of the aggregate votes recorded for all candidates of political parties in respect of each State and Australia as a whole in relation to the 1974 House of Representatives Elections are not yet ready. 
Will he now make available the information asked for by  Senator Missen  without delay. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to my Question No. 2220, what was ill-founded or ill-timed that I uttered on the subject, and precisely why was it so in each instance. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Did one of his personal advisers,  Mr R.  Dempsey make an overseas visit in June 1975. 
If so, what was the purpose of the visit. 
Who approved the visit. 
What was the itinerary of the visit. 
5 ) What was the cost of  Mr Dempsey  's visit. 
Did  Mr Dempsey  prepare a report as a result of his visit. 
If so, what was the date of it, and to whom was it made. 
Is it a fan that  Mr Dempsey  held discussions with officials from OECD aimed at obtaining employment with that organisation. 
Is it a fact that  Mr Dempsey  was successful in obtaining employment with the OECD for a period of several months and is now in Paris prior to taking up full time employment with the office of the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan. 
What date did  Mr Dempsey  return to Australia from his visit, and what date did he resign from his job as personal adviser to  Mr Uren. 
Will any attempt be made to recover any portion of the cost from  Mr Dempsey  of his visit to France. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In determining Australia's rate of exchange, which other countries ' currencies are used to establish the rate. 
Have the same currencies been used since this method was adopted, and have they been weighted to the same extent on each occasion. 
Has this information been previously provided; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Referring to his answer to my question No. 2656, and as the Government is concerned with human rights issues, does he consider that the case of Rudolph Hess's release from Spandau Prison is one of human rights being grossly deprived and therefore worthy of representation on this issue alone, even if such a representation might not be certain of success. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his Queensland broadcast No. 1 7 on the loans debate dated 13 July 1975, (a) who said what and (b) when was it said in accusing him or the Government of being too ambitious and/or wanting to do too much for Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1 8 1 1 , how was it that price reductions were achieved for the drugs he mentions in part (a) of his answer, specifically in the case of the firsts items. ' 
How was the reduction achieved in each case. 
Who was the buying/negotiating authority prior to December 1972, and who has been the authority since. 
Did the personnel change; if so, who were the outgoing and incoming personnel. 
5 ) What new instructions were they given. 
What new methods did they employ. 
Were the previous officers or was the negotiating authority lax; if so, what action has been taken. 
What were the 5 preparations in the 50 highest expenditure benefit items for 1973-74, referred to in part (b) of bis answer, where Australian prices were more than double the United Kingdom price. 
9 ) Ho w did this occur. 
Who was reponsible for it. 
What action did the Minister or other persons take to enable the savings referred to, to be made, and who were the other persons. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What sums have been paid or are payable to what companies, firms or individuals, not in direct Government employment, in respect of advertising, promotion or other services, relating to the Women and Politics Conference. 
I will not take up much of the 10 minutes I have skirting those aspects of the Constitution which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean)  raised except perhaps to remind him that it was the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  before the last election who was very fond of describing the then members of the Senate as yesterday's men and men elected for a certain number of years. Of course, at that election the people decided that the Aus.tralian Labor Party would not have a majority in the Senate. It was their voice and, of course, the Senate is acting constitutionally in terms of the compact that was made in the 1890s when the Commonwealth of Australia was formed. The Senate is playing its role and I believe that that role is the proper one, representing as it does electors and, to some degree, the States. I do not want to draw attention to differences but I must say that the remarks we heard a few moments ago showed some emotion, which perhaps is understandable, but also disclosed a lack of understanding of the views of residents of some of the smaller States who see value in that chamber. 
Turning to the matters which have been debated, firstly I want to make some brief comments on what the  Deputy  Prime Minister as Acting Treasurer said, and secondly, to make some other comments on this new taxation rebate scheme. I draw the Acting Treasurer's attention to the answer that he gave yesterday in the House in reply to a question on the statement he has in front of him on revenue and expenditure for the 2 months ending August. The Opposition rightly has expressed a great deal of concern about the size of this deficit and indeed - 
Would the honourable gentleman do me the courtesy of listening to my argument? I do not have much time and if he wants to interrupt then when I get to the end of my time he might care to move a motion seeking an extension of time for me. It is quite right and proper that we question the Government's expenditure. Consistently since the Government came to power the Opposition has questioned its attitude to the economy and financial matters. We have criticised in great detail its attitude and what we believe to be its irresponsibility. The shadow Treasurer, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  mentioned yesterday that the Government was running at an increased rate of expenditure of 45 per cent 'in spite of the fact that the increase in outlays for the full financial year is estimated at 23 per cent'. I draw the Acting Treasurer's attention to his own reply in which he tried to justify this increased expenditure on 2 grounds. First, he spent most of his time saying that he thought the expenditure was justifiable. There seems to be a hint in that that this increase over the average for the year is justifiable and that he is not very upset if it ends up much higher than was budgeted for. There seems to be that hint because he is saying rhetorically: 'Where would you cut it?' The Opposition has said many times that we believe a lot of items of expenditure are desirable but that there has to be some overall understanding of the economy's capacity. 
The Acting Treasurer also said that we cannot take 2 months in isolation- that that would be unfair. He said we cannot multiply it by six. I remind him that he used that same argument against me in a debate in 1973 in relation to the inflation rate which was then announced on the basis of a quarter of the year. He said then that it would be quite wrong for me to multiply that rate by four. However, if I had it would have been less than the inflation rate turned out to be. So that is not a decisive argument to use by way of reply. The Opposition is concerned that this deficit will end up being greatly in excess of the $2,800m deficit that has been estimated. It may, not be but that is a fear and there is some evidence that we are pointed in that direction. I do not suggest multiplying the rate of expenditure for the first 2 months by six because that would lead to a deficit of $6,000m or more- I think the deficit for the first 2 months is $l,071m-but perhaps the final deficit will be $4 billion or some such figure. Obviously that will have a tremendous effect. 
The Acting Treasurer said that we could not really ask the Government about financing when we know the effect that it will have and because no other government has ever been asked about it. Goodness me! No other government has ever thought about providing a deficit of $2,800m. No other government has ever suggested that that should be the case and we think that we are entitled to some indication of what is involvedcertainly to far more information than has been received by us. We got a bit more information in the Senate but it was not offered in this House. All these so-called reasons for the increased rate of expenditure for the 2 months were given by the Acting Treasurer but he was complaining really about the questions that were being asked. Why should not he be questioned here either at question time or by questions on notice? Why should he complain about that? Let me produce some evidence to justify our fears. There was a letter tabled in this House this morning. It purports to be, and I have not heard that its validity has been denied, from the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)-  not the acting Treasurer- to the Prime Minister. I believe its date is 10 July or 20 July. It refers to the immediate question of whether the Government should use the Treasurer's Advance for the purpose of Regional Employment Development schemes or to defer the transfer of certain staff. I skim over that point. The letter is there for all to read. The Treasurer said: 
In considering this question we need to keep in mind the expenditures during the supply period on the RED scheme and in the Medibank area are expected to be considerably greater than the provisions for these purposes in the Supply Act No. 1 . 1 have recently - 
This was the Treasurer speaking- written to the two Ministers concerned for their assessments of requirements for additional funds. 
He continued: 
Earlier tentative estimates suggested that the additional requirements would be considerably greater than the amount appropriated for Treasurer's Advance No. 1 ($ 120m). If that prospect is confirmed it seems that an early approach to the Parliament for additional funds may be necessary. There have of course already been some calls on the Treasurer's Advance No. 1 and inevitably there will be others arising between now and the end of the Supply period. 
That really undercuts a great deal of what the Acting Treasurer has just said to us. I put to him that instead of making rhetorical replies he might tell us whether the Government will introduce a Bill. Is it a fact that a new Bill is necessary because of the Government's great shortage of money, and a shortage of money on top of the financial assistance Acts that have already been passed and on top of this greatly increased Treasurer's Advance which has been given to this Government and which has been increased out of proportion with what we knew in the past. The Acting Treasurer said that the sum was naturally greater and went on to allude to the parameters being different, inflation and the like. If I recall correctly, the last Treasurers Advance of 1972-73 was of the order of $25m. 
-Well, perhaps it was a figure close to that amount. What I am talking about now is $120m. Great as inflation has been in this country it has never been of that multiple. There are some strange things going on; there is some disturbance. It is of no use the Government trying to gloss over it and suggest that the amount is very Utile. 
I have very little time left to me to speak, but I should like to add that I believe that the new tax rebate system will result in our finding a great number of inequities and anomalies. The Government is clearly trying to present the system as something that will be a godsend to everybody. There are a number of people on low incomes- incomes below average weekly earningsand people on superannuation who pay a greatly increased tax. I cite the example of a man and his wife whose taxable incomes were about $3,100 each and whose taxes have gone from $245 for the both of them to $708- an increase of 189 per cent. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition is engaged in formulating a policy document in respect of Australian Capital Territory matters which I trust will be agreed to and announced in a matter of a few weeks. At that time no doubt we will afford opportunities for residents of the Australian Capital Territory and others outside the Australian Capital Territory to study the document because it involves ramifications of interest to taxpayers and Australians generally. It is not, therefore, my aim this evening to debate the major issues. I will allude to them, necessarily somewhat briefly, in the 10 minutes allowed to me under the Standing Orders covering this debate. We acknowledge and are pleased to see the development of the Legislative Assembly in the Australian Capital Territory. We acknowledge its increasing prestige and the responsibility which it displays and exercises in the conduct of affairs in its advisory role on behalf of the residents of the A.C.T. I am advised, notwithstanding statements to the contrary by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  that it has not always been consulted and at times it has felt that it was ignored and circumvented in respect of some matters of policy and some ordinances. I place that on record and urge the Minister to give the Assembly greater consultation. 
I believe that this session of the Assembly- if I may call it that- has given to the A.C.T. a body that is of more importance and of more responsibility than it has had previously. In the year or thereabouts since the last election it has earned the right to have a large degree of confidence placed in it- perhaps more confidence than has been apparent of late. I realise, in making the remarks I am about to make, that under the Senate procedures one of the Senate committees will be examining the estimates in more detail and will be questioning public servants and perhaps the Minister's representative in the Senate on the details of them. I have before me some notes that were given to me. I raise a point which, I think I can say to the Minister, may well be raised at the Senate Estimates Committee. Perhaps a greater explanation ought to be given of the costs incurred in the A.C.T. which are not contained in the estimates for this Department. The territorial accounts are of importance and perhaps of more importance now that cost factor in the A.C.T. inevitably will rise in considering what further responsibilities ought to be given to the Legislative Assembly. The Minister may see fit to say something about that when he speaks in this debate, but certainly I believe that a request- I put it that way- for that information is likely to be made. 
Of considerable concern to residents of the A.C.T. is the very difficult situation that exists in the rental accommodation field. I understand that my friend the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  will be speaking more fully on this aspect later in the debate. The fact of the matter is that the rent control system that has been imposed by this Government has been a failure. It has resulted, as was predicted and as happens in all such cases of experimentation in other spheres, in a desperate shortage. The movement of people into and out of Canberra is predictable- I think the movement is larger here than in other areas- and it is up to the Government to take steps to try to overcome the problem in a way that has more convincing results than we have seen so far. 
One can point out the tremendous rises in rates and charges that have been imposed on the A.C.T. I should allude to that because it is yet another illustration of how inflation and mismanagement of the country's affairs have required that such rises in rates take place. This, of course, is causing a great deal of hardship to residents in the A.C.T. Nobody, I would think, would try to convince anyone that a 40 per cent rise was reasonable. This Government has even removed much of the alleviation by way of taxation deduction in respect of rates. That rise is tremendous and it is the direct result of the inflationary forces that have been unleashed by this Government. So far, in very few areas has any attempt been made by the Government to hold those forces back. I know of the checklist of the things the Government says it has done; but in fact none of them has been very effective or could have been very effective- with the possible exception of withdrawing money through the banking system, which of course has had a lopsided and detrimental effect in other areas. That is something which the Government and the Minister owe to the residents of the A.C.T. to prevent from happening in the future. It is something which is the result of a number of bad decisions, bad management and a failure to face up to facts. 
I am advised that it is a very long struggle to obtain assistance to purchase a home by way of a defence service home loan. If one wishes to purchase an existing home in that way the wait is of the order of 1 1 months. Anyone must acknowledge that that is unreasonable and ought to be cured, if necessary by consultation with other Ministers of the Government. I am delighted to see the Minister taking some action in respect of garbage removal. I am sure he will recall my interest in this matter some time ago. I am sure he will recall his embarrassment at the unconvincing reply that was then produced. 
It was a lot of garbage. 
It was an inherited system, but not an inherited result. The Minister, in his reply to that question, tried to convince us that nothing was wrong. One only had to get in a car and go down the street to see what was wrong. In his reply the Minister tried to explain that, because there had not been many complaints or recorded complaints, therefore everything was all right. We have seen from what has been announced in the newspapers that an admission of failure has been made. I am fascinated to learn that this matter also involves the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I only wish that my colleague who is interested in urban and regional affairs were here to take up this point, because I know that he pricks up fas ears every time regional development is mentioned. 
Occasional regional collection is something I would be most interested to see. I hope that the Government is able to get on top of that matter. Surely that must be one of the simplest of its problems to solve. The truth is that administration in these matters is of a doubtful order and the Minister would do well to tour around and have a look at the problems that are faced by people in the A.C.T. instead of making a number of speeches and issuing Press statements the gist of which is that everything is perfect, that he is doing the job adequately and that not much exertion is necessary. We believe that there can be considerable improvement. In the brief time I have had available to me I have tried to point out some of the major aspects - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (  Mr MartinOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
On how many occasions was- 
the closure, 
b) the guillotine, and 
the automatic adjournment at 1 1 p.m. used during each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the number of questions on notice- 
asked, and 
answered during each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973*and 1974. 
What was the average delay in providing answers in each of the same years. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1295 that was placed on the Notice Paper on 15 October 1974 and was unanswered by 23 May 1975. 
-The honourable member for Shortland (Mr Morris) is continuing the campaign that was commenced by the Government today to endeavour to pick holes and to denigrate the federalism policy put forward by the Opposition last week. It would really help the honourable member a great deal if he were to read the document. Almost everything he said indicates that he has not read it or if he has read it he has not understood it. One could take up every assertion that he made and contradict it. I make this political point to begin with: It is clear by the answers given by Ministers at question time this morning to questions from their own supporters that the Government is worried that our federalism policy will have a good effect for the Opposition and that means for the country. 
The Government's aim at creating regionalism has failed. Its policy towards local government assistance has failed, and local government knows it. Its confrontation with die 
States has led it increasingly into difficulties as it has attempted to undermine the States. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  started off in 1972-73 by telling us that the States were outmoded and so on. We do not hear much of that sort of talk these days. He has found and met his match on too many occasions. This socialist Government believes in centralism. It believes that more and more decisions should be made in Canberra because, firstly, those decisions are wiser if they are made in Canberra and, secondly, somehow the administration is more efficient if decided in Canberra. One has only to state these 2 principles on which centralism rests to see how fallacious they are. We have brought forward a policy the basic principle of which is that there should be more decision-making at local level. I believe strongly that that will become the trend not only in this country but also in other countries in the future as governments seek more and more to get better results for the money they are spending and to get more value for the dollar. 
The honourable member talked about taxes. The way he put the matter was absurd. The result depends entirely on the level of tax levied by the Government of the day and the governments of the States.  His  Goverment has set rates of tax which have far exceeded the collection of tax by any other government. We are not proposing an increase. On the contrary we are committed to a reduction in income tax. The Government is hoping that somehow it will revive its position by saying it has introduced a tax system which will result in a reduction of tax. One has only to look at the Budget figures- the Government estimates it will collect more than $2,000m extra in personal income tax this year- to see how hollow is that claim. The other point the honourable member made, I think- at any rate it was made often at question time today- was that this policy would somehow disadvantage the smaller States. This claim is completely fallacious. The principles put forward in our document include the restoration of the true function of the Grants Commission, or the introduction of equalisation machinery. This country has achieved greater uniformity in expenditure, in standards and in services than has any other federation in the world. The system has been very successful, I believe, for making that equalisation. Of course it will continue and the less populous States will be assisted. I invite the honourable member and perhaps others if they want to be honest to read our document more carefully. 
 The debate on the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet includes the estimates for the Public Service. As the Opposition spokesman on Public Service matters, I want to make one or two observations. The Opposition on more than one occasion has expressed concern about the appointments of permanent heads of Government departments. We have expressed concern about other appointments. One need perhaps mention only  Mr Grassby. His  appointment and his benefits I understand are being exposed more and more in the current meetings of the Senate Estimates Committees. We have made critical comments on these appointments. I believe the people of Australia also do not agree with many of the appointments that have been made to Ministers' staffs. I refer particularly to those people who are relatives of Ministers. The Prime Minister is now insisting on knowing who will be appointed. In the circumstances, the Prime Minister, bearing in mind the responsibilities to the country which he has, ought to have done that much earlier. 
As I understand it, about 8 permanent heads have been appointed in the last year, three of whom were former private secretaries to the Prime Minister. They were widely known in the country and around this building as being extremely party political. He has tried to argue that these people were appointed on merit, one in particular because he had a lot of university degrees. In other words, he says, they were the best people in the Public Service and indeed in the country who could have been appointed to these particular positions. That is his logical conclusion after saying that they were selected on merit. Of course university degrees may be of great assistance. Some of us have them, but I think it would be a rash person who would claim that that is the basic criterion for qualification to these posts. Looking at their records one cannot be convinced that the appointments were logically based on their records. I emphasise that these appointments were made to permanent positions. They were not made for three or four years or at the Governor-General's pleasure. They were permanent appointments at the most senior level of responsibility and salary. We could refer to other persons. Their cases have been well publicised. It is not necessary to detail them now. 
I have raised this matter previously. The Opposition makes clear its belief that it is necessary to restore integrity, dignity and independence to the Public Service- an instrument for providing efficient and impartial administration of government. The Opposition in government, will be committed to that principle. I have been involved in such a selection and I know what is entailed, as do many of my colleagues, former Ministers, who are now on the Opposition Executive. 
I refer to another matter, that of staffing under the Public Service Act. It is our belief that most staffing should be made under the Public Service Act- I refer particularly to the recent staff appointments by the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission- so as to maintain the salaries and conditions set by similar standards and consistent principles. Whom have we in support of that view now but the Prime Minister himself, who wrote to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration the other day in exactly these terms. He said that he as Prime Minister saw that in the case of the 2 Commissions to which I have referred something else would be the principle involved. That was quite wrong, and we saw that immediately the operations of the 2 Commissions began. 
I conclude by saying that the Opposition understands and believes the Public Service to be a valued group in the Australian community. We appreciate that many public servants work long hours and are dedicated men and women. I pay tribute to their contribution to the nation. We believe that their remuneration and benefits should neither lead nor lag- that is the principle of the Opposition- but that they should reflect community standards. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer my question No. 1 980 that was placed on the Notice Paper on 18 February 1975 and was unanswered by 23 May 1 975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government have any information as to the accuracy of reports that the new Cambodian Government, which it recognised so quickly, is committing atrocities and barbaric acts. 
Can the Minister say whether large numbers of poorer persons are being forced out of cities and towns, specifically 2 million persons from Phnom Penh. 
Has the Government made any inquiries or taken any action; if so, what are the details. 
Does the Government still regard the Government it has recognised in Saigon as being separate from the Government in Hanoi. 
Will the Government support applications by each of these Governments for a separate Mission and representation to the United Nations. 
Does the Government have any evidence that the Saigon Government is acting independently of the Hanoi Government. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Government is seriously considering changing the Consumer Price Index to remove the influence of indirect taxation and thereby reducing the net income of all workers bound to the wage indexation principle; if so, upon what justification. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that elderly people are tending to give up smoking and that young people seem to be starting earlier. 
Can he say what percentage of men over 60 years of age are now ex-smokers. 
Can he also say what percentage of women in a younger age group are smoking compared with those of an older age group. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Approximately what sum was (a) paid and (b) promised as subsidies to firms under the Special Assistance to Non-Metropolitan Areas Scheme. 
How many persons is it estimated this Scheme has prevented becoming unemployed during each month. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the structure and establishment of the Aboriginal Legal Service in Western Australia. 
How many are employed. 
What are their names and locations. 
What is the estimated cost during each of the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1294 that was placed on the Notice Paper on 15 October 1974 and was unanswered by 23 May 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that notice given by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development on 19 May 1975 that he would move to have Parliament agree to erect 4 guard boxes to provide shelter for the policemen guarding Parliament House, particularly during the winter months, was subsequently withdrawn; if so, why was it withdrawn. 
How many policemen at any one time were on duty outside Parliament House during the recent Parliamentary recess. 
What measures were used to protect policemen guarding the outside of Parliament House from the elements during the winter months. 
When will measures be introduced to protect policemen on duty outside Parliament House from the elements. 
I ask my question of the Prime Minister under standing order 144 which provides that a member can ask the Prime Minister whether a Minister's statement represents government policy. The Prime Minister will have seen statements made by the Minister for Labor and Immigration following, and presumably based on, the Government's Budget to the effect that unemployment will reach 400 000 and that inflation could reach 35 per cent next year. I ask: Was the Minister expressing the Government's view? Is that level of unemployment and inflation part of the Government's policy objectives contained in the Government's Budget package? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. At page 558 of Hansard the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  is reported as having made certain remarks in reply to a speech I made in which I complained that a Regional Employment Development scheme project involving proposed assistance for the Hollywood High School in my electorate in Western Australia has been cancelled. He said that it had not been cancelled at that stage. I replied to that that I was given an indication that it had been orally communicated to the Hollywood High School Parents and Citizens Association that the project had been cancelled. I now have received a letter from the Minister's Department confirming that that project has been cancelled. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the significance of the ratio 1:1.414 with regard to standard letter sizes. 
Is it related to right angled isoceles triangles or some other trigonometric phenomenon. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Referring to his answer to my question No. 2995, will he now advise whether any further costs have been or will be incurred in respect of advertising, promotion, or public relations for the Women and Politics Conference. 
Will he confirm that only $34,000 has been and is being paid to Eric White and Associates, and $1,426 to  Mr M.  Goot. 
What is the estimated cost of all services and personnel involvement in the Women and Politics Conference. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Government to have all the VIP cars painted white; if not, what exactly is the intention. 
Are 2 cars painted black to be retained at the request of the Department of Foreign Affairs; if not, what is the position.. 
How many can are located at various places in Australia. 
What types are they. 
) What colours are they painted. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a letter dated 24 October 1974, sent by the Victorian Council for Civil Liberties, in response to a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, pointing out that the 10 questions put by the Council relating to the circumstances under which  Mr Georgi  Ermolenko left Australia after requesting the right to stay here had not been answered. 
Will he, as Head of Government, see that the letter is answered, and that the answers are fully responsive to each question; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Concerning the circumstances under which  Mr Georgi  Ermolenko left Australia, after requesting the right to stay here rather than return to hisnative country the U.S.S.R., what was the precise nature of  Mr Ermolenko  's request to stay inAustralia. 
Did  Mr Ermolenko,  after he decided to stay in Australia, request to be interviewed by representatives of the U.S.S.R. Government. 
What were the circumstances under which  Mr Ermolenko  came to be interviewed by the representatives of the U.S.S.R. and what are the names of any persons who suggested that he be so interviewed. 
Were any of the U.S.S.R. representatives regarded as KGB or similar agents. 
Were any independent witnesses present when  Mr Ermolenko  was interviewed. 
Can the Minister state that no threats were made to  Mr Ermolenko  during the interview or interviews. 
What was the period of time  Mr Ermolenko  was in the presence of representatives of the U.S.S.R. Government only, from the time the Minister was aware he wished to remain in Australia and the time he left Australia. 
Why were judicial proceedings before the Supreme Court of Western Australia ignored by the Government. 
Why was a military aircraft owned and operated by the Australian Government used to transport  Mr Ermolenko  out of Australia, when at that time no strike bans existed. 
Has the Department of Foreign Affairs any guidelines to the situation where a person from a nondemocratic country seeks to remain in Australia; if not, is it considered that such guidelines should be evolved and include a provision for a person from such a country seeking to stay in Australia not to be interviewed by representatives of that country without his freely given consent, and then only in the presence of independent observers. 
11 ) Is it a fact that  Mr Ermolenko  was returned to the absolute control of a totalitarian regime whilst a doubt existed as to his wishes. 
Did the Minister assure  Mr J.  Tonkin, ALP Leader in Western Australia, that  Mr Ermolenko  would not be flown out by RAAF aircraft, and does the Minister share  Mr Tonkin's  doubts, then expressed, that  Mr Ermolenko  freely changed his mind. 
-The Opposition has considered these 6 Bills and finds that they are identical with a Bill which was introduced into this House and which has been debated in some detail on 2 separate occasions. It was supported by the Australian Labor Party and opposed by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia. That being the case, it passed this House but did not pass the Senate on either occasion. The first point one must make is that it is surely a surprising and disturbing thing to see the Government engaged in this basically futile exercise when it has such great matters and great problems- mainly caused by itself- with which to concern itself. They are matters which affect the people. Opposition members are particularly concerned because we see a continuance of that endeavour to change the electoral laws of this country in order to suit the Australian Labor Party and nobody else. We had a Bill in front of us before- the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill- which contained a whole package of proposals. I have spoken on it twice before and so has the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly),  yet it is brought back to us today dissected into 6 pieces. 
I hope you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will permit me to say very early in this debate, because apparently it is likely to be a long one, that the Opposition- and I believe I speak for all honourable members- wishes to express condolences to the Minister, the honourable Fred Daly, on the recent and sudden death of his wife and for that reason we understand fully why he cannot be here today. I might add that although I did not have the honour, I believe, of meeting  Mrs Daly  many have mentioned to me that she was highly regarded by all who knew her. 
Nevertheless, we have in front of us serious matters and I must on behalf of the Opposition do my duty in speaking somewhat bluntly about them. I have already said some blunt things. I believe deeply that this Bill is one of a number of Bills by which it is intended to gain political advantage for the present Labor Government and the Australian Labor Party as a whole. They know that without the proposals in these Bills which seek to change electoral boundaries in this country they have very little hope of retaining at the next election many of the seats now held by Labor supporters. It is not a question of needing these proposals to win. They need them to survive. We only have to look, I suppose, at things like the scandalous overseas loans affair, the Government running out of money and how it has mismanaged the economy to see how great is its need to rig the electoral laws. Look at the example we had quite recently of the changes of boundaries which were included in several Bills, one for each State. Why is it that this legislation is before us again? We know that had the proposed boundary changes been agreed to the Labor Party would have won a greater percentage of seats in certain States and its percentage of votes - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I think the honourable member will realise that I allowed him some latitude in his introductory remarks, but a request for a cognate debate has been refused and we are specifically dealing with Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1975 which deals with optional preferential voting. I would ask the honourable member to get to the subject of the Bill very quickly. 
Yes, I certainly take your advice,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was about to say that this Bill is a part of that package of proposals to which I referred. With respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I say that it is part of the motives of the Government and it is part of a total package which needs to be mentioned if one is to explain fully the views of the Opposition in respect of it. I would like to add that- this was said in the last debate on this legislation- considering our opposition to a number of points but our agreement to others, we looked forward firstly to some sort of consultation. After all, would it not have been sensible to try to get some measure of agreement among the parties on electoral changes rather than to come here and present a confrontation situation now for the third time? 
Yes, bulldozing. That is very true. That is exactly what the Government has tried to do. 
Secondly, no reason has been offered as to why the electoral proposals were divided into 6 Bills. I am disappointed about this division. The Minister took the opportunity of speaking 6 times- to the inconvenience of a large number of honourable members- on various aspects of the legislation. Each of the Bills contains a number of issues. The division is bad anyway. Instead of having 6 Bills we could have had 2 Bills, one covering proposals on which there was common ground and one containing proposals about which there was known to be disagreement. This division is bad because even having divided the proposals into 6 Bills there are still some points in some of the Bills that I will refer to later which the Opposition can find acceptable and others that it cannot. 
This Bill refers to optional preferential voting at Senate elections. The Minister, in his second reading speech presented to this House on 28 August, and which appears at pages 709, 710 and 71 1 of  Hansard,  made a very partisan party political speech. It was not the calm, rational speech of one who is really after reform, as he said in one passage. It was a speech which expressed a great deal of intended confrontation. He spoke at one point about it being a more realistic and less cumbersome voting procedure. He spoke of it as being a non-partisan objective in spite of the abuse that he sprinkled liberally around in that speech. He said that the proposals are in no way designed to favour a particular political party. It is extraordinary that he should say this, knowing the opposition that has been expressed to this measure on so many occasions. He referred to certain assemblies- he mentioned them- which have this system, but for entirely different reasons. So I must say I was disappointed with the arguments he put up; one would have expected them perhaps to be stronger. I just mention reasonably briefly what the Opposition's view on this is, having referred to the motives which clearly exist and incidentally are to be heard discussed frequently in the corridors in this place among members of various parties. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide for optional preferential marking of ballot papers at Senate elections. As I said, this proposal was a part of the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill. The principal clauses of the Bill under discussion deal with how ballot papers are to be marked, what constitutes an informal ballot paper and the scrutiny of votes. Under the Government's proposal a voter at a Senate election will be required to indicate on his or her ballot paper preference for at least the number of vacancies to be filled. The voter may extend his preferences beyond the minimum, but this is the voter's option. The Opposition, of course, opposes this because it is the first step by the Government towards its aim of first past the post voting. That is what is really sought in this Bill. This was a compromise when the Labor Party, whose policy originally was for first past the post voting, decided that it was not saleable and that it would have to retreat from it. 
What is intended in this Bill is to try to create a situation in which people are encouraged, if not at the first election then at a later election, not to go down the list of preferences and not to express a view about those candidates that to them are less favoured. That is, of course, the whole point of our traditional preferential system. The point and the fairness of it is that each person expresses a preference for each candidate on the ballot paper. He does not in fact have to mark the last one because clearly that candidate will come last, but he may do so. The basic fairness of that is this: If he votes No. 1 or No. 2 for candidates who, as it turns out when the votes are counted, are less favoured candidates, then, if he has to fill in the whole of the ballot paper, ultimately he has a say in determining which of the two most favoured candidates comes last or, in the case of the Senate, the two most favoured teams. That is the inherent fairness of that system and that is why Australia, which when its electoral systems were being set up was naturally interested in trying to achieve the fairest system- by the way, Australia was one of the first countries to give the vote to women and also to provide for secret ballots- adopted the system of full preferential voting. That system was fair and most likely to result in having the real wishes of the electorate recorded. Of course the Australian Labor Party does not worry much about fair systems. Its interest is in getting the maximum number of candidates elected whatever the system may be, particularly at the moment. So members of the Labor Party come along here with a lot of spurious arguments about the percentage of informal votes and so on. In one section of his second reading speech the Minister for Administrative Services said: 
Of course there will always be a number of electors who fail to record a valid vote irrespective of the voting system. 
That was ground out of him after about 6 columns of  Hansard.  I suppose that he felt that the rest of his speech had to be balanced up a little bit. Of course that is quite right. The percentage of informal votes is a factor but nevertheless it will never be extinguished. 
Let me refer to this matter of the average informal vote in Senate elections. Let us all agree that because of the large number of candidates for Senate elections and perhaps in many cases because of the number of candidates whose names are not well known, there will be a significant number of people who will vote informally either unintentionally or intentionally. The average informal vote at Senate elections is about 10 per cent. I have in front of me the percentages of informal votes recorded at Senate elections since 1949. They are: 10.76 per cent, 7.13 per cent, 4.45 per cent, 9.63 per cent, 10.29 per cent, 10.62 per cent, 6.98 per cent, 6.10 per cent, 9.41 per cent and in May last year, 10.77 per cent. In spite of the fact that one State had, I think, 73 candidates, the fact of the matter was that the overwhelming majority of electors were able to work out quite easily how to vote formally. Of course the Australian people are quite intelligent enough to number a ballot paper if they want to. Anybody who has scrutineered and seen ballot papers being counted will know that quite a number of them are blank. A blank ballot paper shows that it is not a question of somebody making a mistake and having his vote ruled out; he does not want to vote. There will always be a percentage of those deliberately informal votes. 
So an argument which attempts to encourage people into a first past the post system, which the Government hopes will aid its candidates, is of course a very weak argument. No doubt when this Bill gets to the Senate and perhaps this afternoon in this House others will continue to expose this argument. We are for a full preferential system which provides for each elector the right to express a preference in favour of every candidate on the ballot paper. After all, the Government cannot complain. The percentages of votes it has received in Senate elections have been represented pretty closely by the percentage of senators it has had elected. But I point out that the Australian Labor Party has not had great success in getting a majority of senators in the Senate. That, of course, is the real reason why it wants to change the system. The system does not suit it. It is not getting enough senators elected. That is the motive behind this legislation and every honourable member in this House privately knows that that is so. 
Of course the argument in favour of the first past the post system is that it will aid the Labor Party. As I said, the Labor Party had that as a policy. It now tries to meet any opposition in the middle. Who can say, with the Government's interest in promoting propaganda in its own direction, what campaign would be waged, if that system were adopted, in favour of greatly simplifying the system, as the Government would say, and encouraging people just to vote for the Labor Party team and for no one else? The people do have rights and they must be protected. I say in respect to this Bill, and with more relevance in respect of a Bill to be dealt with later, it is important that individuals have the right of full expression of their vote and also the right to nominate. That nomination is part of their right. For the Government to criticise an election in which there happened to be more candidates than before and to say that that is a bad thing and confusing and so on is only to say that it does not want the system to proceed as it is. The Government wants to change it and to tighten the system in its interest. I believe that that is wrong both immediately and certainly in the long term. 
In brief, that is why the Opposition takes this view. This Bills deals specifically with optional preference voting on ballot papers for Senate elections. The next Bill to be discussed deals with the House of Representatives. I conclude by saying that all the legislation is part of the one package. The principles embodied in this Bill were in the package of the Bill that was before this House on 13 November last year, again on 10 April this year and now in separated form we have it before us again. What an idea of priorities! The other and linked attempts to change the system are those electoral boundary alterations which now are embodied in Bills, though they were not previously, and also the attempt to bring in provisions in respect of donations plainly have emerged in the debate as an effort to improve part of the electoral process in favour of the Australian Labor Party. The Opposition opposes the Bill. 
-This Bill and Electoral Bill (No. 2) have the purpose of providing for optional preferential marking of ballot papers. Electoral Bui (No. 2) dealt with elections for the Senate and this Bill incorporates a similar principle for House of Representatives elections. If this Bill were enacted a voter would need to mark only one preference. This would apply also in an election to fill a single Senate casual vacancy, as outlined in Electoral Bill (No. 2). So  voters may indicate more than one preference if they wish to do so but it is not necessary. 
The Opposition opposes this measure on very similar grounds to those on which it opposed Electoral Bill (No. 2). When speaking to Electoral Bill (No. 2) earlier I mentioned that this Bill is one of six into which the previous Electoral Laws Amendment Bill has now been divided for presentation to this House for the third time. The Bill is part of a package of proposals to change electoral boundaries and electoral laws purely in the interests of the Australian Labor Party. I repeat that the Government certainly needs to manipulate this system and has shown dogged determination to change the electoral system in its own favour, because it realises that if the present fair system continues it will be thrown out of office for its mismanagement of the economy and for other matters. 
This Bill is put forward with the basic argument that the present system is unfair, unwieldy and so on. It is a specious argument. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  made separate second reading speeches on these Bills. The speeches contained a certain amount of invective. Of course we do not agree with the principle at all. We are convinced that this is an effort of the Labor Party to change the electoral voting system to a first-past-the-post system, a system under which a person need mark a ' 1', or an 'X' if the law permitted, against one candidate no matter how many candidates there are. That is enough to record a valid vote. 
This is a departure from the long held principle in this country that every elector should express a preference for every candidate. That is important because an elector cannot know- he may have some idea- who will be the most favoured candidates. He may well vote for somebody who in the event receives few votes and has little hope of being elected. If the elector votes initially for a minor candidate and gives a preference to the full number of candidates on the ballot paper ultimately his preferences will be distributed. He will ultimately have a say in the election of the last person and in particular between the 2 last and most favoured candidates. I suppose one would need to qualify that by saying that if a candidate has an absolute majority- that is 50 per cent of the votes plus one- the preferences are not necessary but in most elections they are necessary and in all elections they may be necessary. This is an old principle. 
I said earlier- and these remarks are just as applicable to this Bill as to Electoral Bill (No. 2)- that when Australia was forming its electoral laws and procedures it was very keen to do better than the systems overseas, many of which contained a number of unfair provisions. Australia was one of the first countries to introduce universal franchise, votes for women, secret ballot and full preferential voting. We have held to that system by and large. One or two smaller assemblies use the other system. In most cases, perhaps in all cases, they had a special reason- which is not applicable to elections for the House of Representatives- for adopting that system. So our first and primary point in advocating that Australia should retain the full preferential system is that it is a fair system which results in each elector having a say in who is to be elected. All the POllS and predictions aside, one cannot know who is going to win until the votes are counted. 
One of the specious arguments used is that the optional preferential system would reduce the number of informal votes. One only has to look at what we are talking about to see that that is not a very powerful argument. I have a list which shows the percentage of informal votes cast in elections in this country since 1949. They are 1.99 per cent, 1.9 per cent, 1.35 per cent, 2.88 per cent, 2.87 per cent, 2.56 per cent, 1.82 per cent, 3.1 per cent, 2.54 per cent, 2.17 per cent, and in the election last year, 1.92 per cent. Between 2 per cent and 3 per cent of voters vote informally. Some electors do so deliberately. If one scrutinises the ballot papers when the votes are being counted one sees that some are blank, some are spoiled in other ways and some are amusingly not blank. 
Some of them are very rude. I said that some were amusingly not blank. But the point is that some people do not wish to vote. Of course, there is no law to prevent them from failing to vote. What they must do is present themselves at the polling places and have their names marked off. There will always be some people who will vote informally. I suppose it is part of their democratic right to vote in such a manner. But it is a specious argument to try to claim that optional preferential voting is an important advance in this respect. 
Of course, the motive behind the whole package of the proposals being put to this Parliament now for the third time in under 12 months is that the legislation if passed would greatly help the Australian Labor Party get more votes, and in the present political climate preserve more of its members when we next go to an election. Really, the argument that the Australian people cannot mark a piece of paper one to three or four or five - 
The Minister is in the wrong debate. He is talking about the last Bill. Is the Minister telling me that we are going to have a ballot paper with 70 names on it for a House of Representatives election? 
Well, you could have. But I believe that the Australian people would be able to work it out as they did in respect of the ballot paper for New South Wales Senate candidates at the last election. But this has never happened before in respect of a House of Representatives election. So what the Minister is putting to me now is as specious an argument as was put by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  when he introduced the present Bill recently and similar Bills on 2 previous occasions. The Government just is not on firm ground. The Government really wants to produce a situation in which it can get from a few votes some sort of preferential treatment. It hopes that some people who vote for minor candidates ultimately will not have any preferential say because if this legislation were passsed the Government would further amend the law to provide for first past the voting. The Government would then be able to split the votes of its opponents even though those votes in total might exceed the votes for the Government candidate. The Government seeks to implement a system whereby fewer nonLabor candidates are elected to this place. 
That is what the legislation is all about. The Government proposes to introduce an optional preferential system. Once it has encouraged people not to vote fully on the basis of a preferential system it will come back and say: 'Well, people do not want to use this system; we will change it to a first past the post system'. Of course, the Australian Labor Party had a policy of first past the post voting. However, it had to abandon this policy because it was found to be very unpopular. In fact, compaigns were conducted in this country in respect of such a system. Quite a big campaign was conducted a few years ago to try to get people to respond to this system. It was actually an attempt to say to people: 'Look, you do not want to have to go through this performance every two or three years of actually having to make the big effort of putting 5 marks on a ballot paper when you need make only one mark'. But the Australian people showed what they thought of such a proposal. 
They reacted very adversely to such a suggestion. Some polls taken on the subject showed that Australians were very firmly in favour of a full preferential system. 
The Labor Party realised that it would have to go around this matter in a more devious way. It decided that the change to first past the voting would have to be undertaken in 2 stages, the first of which would be to promote the principle of optional preferential voting. The motive behind all the attempted changes to the boundaries and the electoral laws to which I have referred is the Government's attempt to keep itself in power. 
The present system is not really unfair. If one compares the percentages of votes that are cast for the Australian Labor Party with the percentages of Labor Party candidates who are elected one will find that the percentages are pretty close. I think that that is not a bad test of whether or not the system is working fairly. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  earlier said: 'Oh well, that cannot be right because after all in the last election for the House of Representatives Labor got a majority'. He did not say that it was a narrow one- but it was narrowand in the Senate it did not get a majority. One can see just how weak the Government's case is if the honourable member has to resort to arguments of that kind. In the first place, Senators are elected State by State. It so happens that some States are very antagonistic to the Labor Party and if they had not had equality of votes in the Seante they would never have joined the Federation in the first place. Secondly, so long as we are to have boundaries anywhere we will not have an exact representation of the percentage vote for a party across the whole State. There have to be variations, but what I am arguing is that the variations should be minor. 
Not even the Australian Labor Party is suggesting a system for the House of Representatives such as exists in Tasmania where for a large area, or I suppose, to follow the logic of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, the whole State, you elect everyone on a proportional representation basis. 
Yes, I am sure that even the Minister would agree with that. They are in brief the reasons why the Opposition puts forward in opposing the legislation again. I remind the House that this is the third time that legislation of this nature has been introduced in less than a year. It shows a very strange order of priorities when we have to involve ourselves in contesting a principle which has been contested so often before and about which our views are so completely known, when there are matters of great moment before the Australian people. 
If the Minister is to introduce a former Bill which has been split into 6 segments and make 6 highly political speeches about them, of course the Opposition has to explain to the Australian people why it takes the view it does in opposing most of the measures. A pity it is that there could not have been right from the beginning some attempt to get agreement. If the Government was really genuine in this matter I believe it should have attempted to initiate a round table conference to try to get some agreement in respect of these electoral matters. I am at a loss to understand why the Government could not have done this and then put the matters on which agreement had been reached into one or more bills which could then be passed. The House could then debate those Bills which contain matters in respect of which the Opposition is opposed. 
I just want to touch on one argument which seems to keep reappearing, though strangely not in the Minister's second reading speech on this occasion, namely the argument that the optional preferential voting system will be greatly beneficial because votes will be counted more quickly. Surely what we want to get is the right result. We want to know what is the feeling and the view of the electors. If that takes another few hours of counting obviously the exercise is worthwhile. We do not want to cut off certain votes and, as is proposed in later Bills, place other restrictions on the rights of people simply because it helps the Labor Party which argues that under such a system the result could be known by midnight of the day of counting. Perhaps it could help some of the commentators to be a little more accurate than they have been in the past. The important questions are: What is the will of the people? What is their real intention? How can we get the best result in accord with what they wish? This is not a question of machinery and I believe that the saving, certainly in respect of the election of the members of this House, is not worth considering. Nor is it worth considering in terms of the national effort and the system that we have set up in order to try to create the fairest possible parliamentary representative democracy. That is the view of the Opposition in respect of this Bill. It will oppose the legislation. 
-This Bill provides mainly for the registration of political parties and for the political affiliations of candidates to be printed on ballot papers. The provisions of this Bill were part of the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill which was debated in this House last November and again in April of this year. They are part of that package of proposals which the present Australian Labor Party Government is putting forward in an endeavour to improve the political system in its favour. On a number of occasions the Opposition has expressed its objections to the principles that are involved in this Bill. The registration of political parties will mean the setting up of a tremendous structure of regulation, and that is the reason for a good deal of the Opposition's criticism. 
It has long been realised by those who are interested in the provision of a better form of political parliamentary representation that the right of an individual citizen to stand as a candidate and to have a fair chance at the poll is important. I realise that the party political system which exists in this country today gives him a minor chance of success. Nevertheless the system is there and who is to say that the present structure of parties will continue forever or even for a long time? The fact is that, as the law stands at present, the electors have the ability to change their representatives frequently, not merely between members of major parties. What this Bill would do would be to make it harder for the individual to be elected and to make things more difficult for all parties other than the Australian Labor Party. That is the reason for the presentation of this item in the package of proposals that has been put forward. 
It is the same motive which has led the Government to endeavour to change the electoral boundaries very much in its favour and to endeavour to make many changes to the electoral laws from which only the present Government can benefit. In the 6 second reading speeches of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and in other speeches in this place he has endeavoured to justify the situation on what he calls non-partisan grounds. But the abuse contained in those speeches and his general demeanour and attitude on this subject are enough to convince everybody on this side of the House that that argument is not a genuine one. 
I will not try to cover all the provisions of the Bill because they are complex and, with the Government's objective in mind, somewhat legalistic, but I will mention briefly the principles that are involved. A party will have to register its name. Perhaps on the surface that sounds simple enough but of course we all know of cases- there are a number of cases- of people registering names intended to be confused with the names of existing political parties. The Labor Party is perhaps least likely to suffer electoral consequences from that and therefore it is a very good idea for the Government to add to the problems of others. Legal action has been taken on the matter. In the main those efforts have been unsuccessful in our present situation. But what is intended here is to set up incredibly complex machinery in which the appeal is not to the courts but to the Chief Australian Electoral Officer- in other words, an officer in the employ of the Government. In spite of the relatively recent independence of that position, it is clearly not the right avenue. The avenue, if needed, should be through the courts. They alone have the aura of impartiality which would allow the people to see true independence. As is often said, it is not a question of being impartial but of having the appearance of impartiality. 
If the well known political parties have their names on the ballot paper, irrespective of the relationship of those parties to one another, that must have an adverse effect on an individual putting forward his name. As I have said, the Bill encourages confusion by allowing names and party names to be put forward that are intended to be confusing. We all know of people who have changed their names by deed poll in order to be placed on top of the ballot paper or in order to cause confusion or otherwise gain advantage. We have known of people registering names under the various State Acts or promoting names which are intended to be similar to the names of other parties. I have mentioned the -appeals system. Fancy in the height of an election with all the pressure and the difficulties which exist the 
Chief Electoral Officer adjudicating on a group promoting a name which can be confusing with the name of another political party. In the opinion of the Opposition Parties this proposal is quite improper and of course we oppose it. 
We have put a view also about the qualification provisions. There is all this paraphernalia. Under this Bill there is to be a register called the  Register of Names of Political Parties.  One may have a party registered only if there is a certain amount of support in the electorate. For instance, in the case of a general election for the House of Representatives the number of candidates endorsed by a party must not be less than onequarter of the number of divisions in the relevant State- that means the number of electorates in a State. In the case of a Senate election the number of candidates endorsed by a party is to be not less than one-quarter of the number of senators to be elected for that State. In other words, this proposal is weighted very heavily in favour of the status quo and that is clearly damaging to the right to which I referred of individuals to stand for election and to have a fair chance. It is surely worth preserving, even by the big parties, the principle that the opportunity of the individual counts for something. After all, when such a person is elected it is usually for an important political reason and the consequences of such elections have been important ones in Australia's history. The proposal in this Bill that there needs to be a qualification of numbers before registration of a party can take place is obviously unfair. 
I have mentioned that there is to be a register of the names of political parties. This again only shows the propensity of the Labor Party to try to regulate everything. It is mad about moving motions, about having a large number of Bills enacted and regulations passed. The Labor Party exaggerates the need. It cannot leave things alone. It sees some advantage in this proposal and that joins with this propensity to legislate. So we have this quite complex Bill which if passed could result in creating a great number of anomalies and would very likely support the ambitions of the Labor Party. 
The Bill sets out that the Chief Electoral Officer shall register the name of political parties, other particulars including the address, etc. I can imagine how many etceteras there would be. The Bill says that the Chief Electoral Officer 'may refuse an application for the registration'. So he will have to come into the political process. He will be able to say: 'No, you cannot have the name that you have set about promoting in order to put a political point of view or a set of principles. I may refuse it because the law says so'. 
The Bill says that he has to give the leader of the party a statement setting out reasons for the refusal. I am afraid that is very little safeguard when we see the sort of reasons that are produced in this House by the Government for refusing things and indeed for promoting things. The fact of the matter is of course that anybody who puts his mind to it can write on a subject 50 or 100 words which may or may not say anything, depending on the motive of the person who writes them, but surely the officer responsible for the conduct of elections should not have to come into this and make a decision which is part of the political process. That surely is anathema to what should be achieved and I believe in the main has been achieved in our political process in this country. 
As one goes through this Bill one gets deeper and deeper into a quagmire of provisions. The Bill proposes that during the period of 3 months after the commencement of Part IXA certain applications to register the name of a party must be refused. That is an attempt, I suppose, to achieve the objective I referred to earlier, that is, the confusion that can come about, some of it deliberate though some of it may not be intended to be confusing. Nevertheless, the proposal does not adequately cover every situation. Indeed it would be just inviting the creation of a situation in which those who want to manipulate the political process- there is a small minority who are interested in doing that- could have a field day. Clause 58M provides that a party is not to have more than one registered name. I suppose that would be necessary because of the objective that is sought by the proposal to have the name of a party printed on the ballot paper, but it may well be unfair to the party. If a party wants to have a different name in each State or some variation why should it not be allowed to do so? I know that the Labor Party does not want this. No doubt this proposal would put it into another advantageous position, but there is nothing Godgiven about that sort of uniformity. There is nothing about it that should entitle somebody to have an advantage and a legal advantage as is provided in this Bill. 
One could go on picking up these points and the dangers that exist in this legislation which simply is not necessary- just is not necessary, like so much of the legislation that is proposed in this place and so much of which has been rejected by the Senate. And thank goodness for that; otherwise we would have an enormous amount of highly complex and in many cases vague legislation on the statute book that more and more we would be trying to unravel. Let me refer very briefly to one illustration of the confusion to which I referred. There was an attempt by a group some little time ago to promote a party known as the Liberal Reform Group. That resulted in some legal action and it was a messy situation. 
Of course it was intended to be confusing, as the honourable member is. The point is that that was designed to make people believe that it was the Liberal Party. It was dealt with, I believe satisfactorily. A certain amount of attention was drawn to it in a political way. Some action was taken through the courts. The matter was resolved. That instance demonstrates that there is no need for this complex machinery which is open to a lot of other abuse. As so often happens with radical approaches- I hope I have given that word in its correct meaning- there are consequences which are not fully recognised or perhaps in the haste and desire to make changes one does not care whether they have adverse consequences, but the Opposition believes this Bill would create far more damage than it is worth and for that reason it strongly opposes this Bill and the principles which are embodied in it. 
-The Electoral Bill (No. 5) is the fourth of the series of Bills that are being debated today. It forms part of the provisions and principles that were involved in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill that was debated by this House twice previously, once in November last and once in April last. Today 6 electoral Bills are put before us- we debated some of the others before the suspension of the sitting for dinner- which together make up all those items contained in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill. I make the point, as I must in respect of this Bill, that it contains clauses to which the Opposition has already indicated its opposition in this House and in the Senate. Yet the Government, for the third time, is bringing these clauses forward. This indicates to the Opposition a shocking set of priorities, that the Government can be debating this matter when there is so much that is urgent facing the country and without any attempt to negotiate with the major parties any sort of ground for agreement. 
It has not been explained why it is necessary to have 6 Bills. It has not even been found that each or any of the Bills which might be acceptable to some extent can be agreed to altogether. This Bill refers to four particular items- the closing of polling booths at 6 p.m. instead of 8 p.m., the drawing for positions on the ballot paper by candidates for the House of Representatives, the increasing of deposits of candidates for nomination for election, and linked with that the changing of the formula relating to forfeiture of deposits. I shall mention each of those provisions in a moment but I indicate that as most of these aspects are opposed by the Opposition there seems little point in trying to set forth a series of amendments to the Bill, particularly as the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly),  who the Opposition appreciates cannot be here this evening, criticised the Opposition greatly for attempting to amend the composite Bill that was put forward previously. We do not propose on this measure to try to pick and choose because what we regard as acceptable is relatively minor. 
I refer to the second reading speech on this Bill by the Minister for Administrative Services which is recorded in  Hansard  of 28 August. I shall refer to one or two aspects of what he said. Early in the speech he said that the Bill contains provisions for revising penalties for electoral offences to bring them in line with the present monetary values. That sets aside one of the criticisms we made in that area, namely, that gaol sentences are set for a number of electoral offences. We suggested that where that sentence was left at 3 months no penalty of imprisonment ought to be specified but the offence should be a matter for a fine. Typically, the Minister failed to mention that point at all although, as I said, he has split the Bill into 6 parts and made 6 separate speeches on the Bills on the day the 6 Bills were introduced. As I said earlier in the day, that is the reason why we insisted in turn on having 6 separate debates. But that point has been put aside. It has not been answered. That is one element of our objection to the Bill. 
Clause 4 refers to an increase in the deposits. It increases the nomination fee of candidates. We believe there is no reason for changing the proportionate amounts and so believe that the deposits should not be increased for candidates for either the Senate or the House of Representatives. Previously an amendment was moved in the chamber but we think that cost should not be a prohibitive factor in any person deciding whether to stand for election for any House of Parliament. There is much to be said for the right of an individual elector to be able to nominate, or for small parties to be able to support individual candidates, and this provision seems to have the plain purpose of scaring off such candidates. 
The Minister referred in his speech to people who nominate for obstructive or frivolous reasons. Who is to decide whether it is obstructive or frivolous for an elector to stand for Parliament, which is his right? The Minister will have made that judgment without evidence and without any supporting reason other than that to which I will come. He will become the arbiter of that matter and his proposition singularly lacks any evidence. Indeed, we could have the reverse effect. The Minister said: 
The essential purpose of the proposal to increase deposits is to reduce the number of persons who might be tempted or influenced to nominate for either Senate or House of Representatives elections for obstructive or frivolous reasons. 
That is very nice. It is all right for candidates of the Australian Labor Party to stand; they are not standing for obstructive or frivolous reasons. But other arid minor candidates or certain others to whom he later referred apparently are standing for such reasons. The Minister continued: 
This occurred in the 1974 Senate elections when an individual publicly admitted that he had sponsored a number of candidates in order to deliberately obstruct the Senate elections in New South Wales. 
I quietly challenge the Minister to produce to me any evidence for that statement that anybody said they had deliberately set out to obstruct the Senate election in New South Wales. The Minister has picked up a Press report and twisted it. He has twisted the words that that person said and has used them in Parliament as an argument to try to bolster this proposed legislation. 
-The Minister can try to draw red herrings if he wants to, but I have suggested that the Minister made a plain statement about what somebody had said, and has not quoted it correctly and has twisted the words. If the Minister likes to look at the Press report and put it next to his own words I am sure that he will find that that is the case. 
It is not substantially correct at all. The Minister coined the word 'obstructive' and the word 'frivolous'. Later in his speech the Minister said: 
Let me stress that this proposal is not designed to reduce the number of genuine candidates or to discourage candidates from nominating. 
He is trying to say that if people stand for what he decides are frivolous or obstructive reasons they will be deterred because of the higher deposit but a genuine person, perhaps with small means, will not be deterred. Of course the argument is absurd. He has made a non sequitur. It is extraordinary to me that with the staff at his disposal, a really quite short speech cannot be made more logically consistent than to allow those comments to appear only a few sentences apart. The fact is that a rise in the deposits which are necessary to nominate may well have the opposite effect. It may well drive out what he would care to believe were the genuine candidates and allow those nominating for obstructive or frivolous reasons to continue; it may be that they would have more funds at their disposal. This whole argument is fallacious, and that provision in the Bill is unnecessary. 
Clause 5 refers to the percentage of votes required before a candidate or a group of candidates will have their deposits refunded. This is a means of restricting, by indirect means, parties or candidates without anticipated general support. 
After all, we do not know until they have stood and the votes are gathered whether they are going to be elected, but I believe the Minister is trying to prejudge the matter. As a general rule, under this provision candidates would be required to gain a slightly higher percentage of votes than at present. All things considered, the Opposition believes that that too is undesirable. 
Clause 6 attempts to change the procedure for arriving at the order in which candidates' names appear on the ballot paper. The Minister wants to set up a system whereby they are drawn by lot rather than placed alphabetically. I suppose that this is an old chestnut which, in electoral terms, the Minister would be pleased to call electoral reform. Of course he thinks that all change is reform, but we believe there is no particular advantage, and there is no evidence that the proposed system would be more equitable than the present alphabetical system. 
I am pleased to have the honourable member's agreement, as his name begins with an A. The point is that if we agree that there is an advantage in being on the top of the ticket it does not cure the problem to say: 'We are going to provide some sort of lottery to determine this'. It does not really do much harm, I would suggest, if the order be alphabetical, for that system has the advantage of being the one mainly in use. It has the advantage, I think, of not requiring change for its own sake, which seems to appeal to the Government the Opposition cannot see that that is a great issue to be pursued, although I have heard Labor members wax very emotional on the subject. I have heard the argument used also that that is what happens in Senate elections, but since Senate ballot papers list teams, and there is no question of putting them in alphabetical order, obviously there is no alternative. 
Clause 7 proposes that the hours of polling should be restricted to 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. in lieu of the present 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The Opposition can see no reason at all for that. It seems to form part of one of the themes of this whole package of proposals which, we believe, is a package primarily aimed at assisting the Labor Party in elections. I think it is part of an effort to restrict availability of the polls. I am aware that in Queensland these polling hours have been used for some time, but that is not so in other States. It was a proposal in New South Wales recently. My latest information is that the Government will not be proceeding with that aspect of a number of electoral proposals. But irrespective of what happens elsewhere, which is that most States have the hours of polling from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.,- it is for us to make a judgment about what is the right thing to do. 
In this country we have a compulsory system of voting. If you do not vote you are sent a letter asking you to explain and if your reason is not convincing you are fined. That results in a voting percentage of about 92 per cent of those on the roll. It is a compulsion. The Labor Party suggests nowhere that that compulsory system should not continue. So we say that in matters such as the number of polling booths, the provision of adequate facilities, particularly with regard to postal votes, and the hours that the booths are open, there is a requirement, a duty, for the Government to provide reasonable convenience to electors. We can see no good reason for restricting the time. 
One of the arguments- indeed, almost the only one- produced by the Minister in his speech is that an earlier closing hour will allow counting to commence 2 hours earlier, with the result that the counting trend for which the nation is waiting will be known much earlier in the night on polling day. This argument curiously pervades a lot of the debate on this Bill, as it did on previous Bills. I make the point again that the important thing is to get the result which is closest to that which the people wish to express- what I called earlier today when speaking to another Bill the right result. The Minister and another honourable member opposite chose to twist what I said. If they care to read  Hansard  they will see that.the sense in which I used that phrase is as I say. The right result is the one which is closest to the clear wishes of the Australian people. 
Clearly, if the time for casting a vote, the availability and number of polling booths and the way in which postal votes can be lodged are restricted the rights of the people are restricted. If it is done just because the counting has to be finished a couple of hours earlier, what- a silly business that is. What are we trying to do? Are we trying to help the television commentators in giving more an accurate prediction of an election result 2 hours earlier. This is getting absurd. If an election is very close it is going to take days -or weeks before anyone can be sure of the result. If it is not very close the result will probably be known by midnight. To say that the electoral law ought to be changed so that someone will be able to know the result of an election 2 hours earlier is patently absurd. 
I have dealt with the major provisions of the Bill and the reasons why the Opposition will oppose it. I refer briefly to clauses 8 and 9. I referred to them in passing earlier. When another Bill with similar provisions was before the House earlier the Opposition attempted to have it amended to delete terms of imprisonment of less than 3 months so that the penalty would be only a fine. I say that no argument has been put forward to meet the Opposition's argument on that point. It would appear that the Australian Labor Party in what it seeks to do is showing what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been pleased to refer to as the Labor Party's authoritarian streak. In conclusion, if I may paraphrase the conclusion of the Minister's speech, I can only say that the measures proposed are not straightforward, are not rational and certainly are partisan. 
-This Bill is one of 6 electoral Bills which are being debated by the House today. It forms part of those attempts to change the electoral law which were set out in the Electoral Law Amendment Bill. That Bill was twice debated in the Parliament, in November of last year and in April of this year. This BUI forms part of that package of proposals which the Government has put to the Parliament 3 times and which, in the view of the Opposition, are intended to improve the chances of the Labor Party in its fighting of elections. The Opposition has opposed four of those Bills as being partisan. The debates on those Bills have taken place. 
This Bill contains provisions which the Opposition regards as being worthy of serious consideration. Those provisions include some proposals which are similar to provisions which were proposed by the Minister who was in charge of electoral laws in the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. Of course those provisions of the Bill are not contested. There are, however, a number of amendments which the Opposition will seek to make to the Bill. They are set out in the document entitled 'Proposed Amendments' which has been circulated in my name. The Opposition believes that many of these matters to which I will refer in a moment are important and that some of them need amendment and contesting. That attitude will be taken up in the debate in the Senate when this Bill is considered there. 
However, in the second reading debate, I refer first of all to some of the comments made in his second reading speech by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  who is in charge of this Bill. Speaking of mobile polling booths, the establishment of which this legislation proposes to authorise, the Minister said that they would be: ... a significant step forward in making it easier for the aged and infirm to register their votes while at the same time removing the need for canvassers and political parties organisers to invade hospitals, convalescent homes and institutions, as they do at present. 
I observe in passing that there is something to be said for introducing mobile polling booths. There is also something to be said for the support of canvassers and political party organisers who, after all, are present at all other booths in an election. These people serve a purpose. I hope that the intention of that observation by the Minister was not to disparage the presence of these people. One cannot help wondering- and we will need to watch to see what the result of the operation of mobile polling booths will be- whether without any - 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Was he consulted before the Postmaster-General agreed to the postal rate charges. 
Upon what economic principle is the Government operating with relation to increased postal and telecommunication charges, when increasing charges to cover increased costs, mainly wages, will be immediately transmitted into the Consumer Price Index, then into wages via the wage indexation pledge, and consequently lead to further demands for higher charges because of increased wage costs in the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
Is it a fact that this is completing a futile inflationary circle. 
I move: 
1 ) In proposed section 4 1A ( 1 ), omit paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), substitute the following word and paragraph: 'and (b) has left, and is living outside, Australia, but has a fixed intention of returning to Australia and of living within a Subdivision, ' 
In proposed section 41a(1), omit 'or the spouse of such a person who is living with that person, '. 
In proposed section 4 1  a  ( 1 ), omit 'or her'. 
In proposed section 41  a  ( 1 ), omit 'or she'. 
5 ) In proposed section 4 1  a  ( 2 ), omit 'or she '. 
In proposed section 41  a  (3) (b), omit 'or her'. 
In proposed section 41  a  (3) (b), omit 'or she'. 
In proposed section 41  a  (3), omit 'or she'. 
In proposed section 41  a  (4), omit 'or her'. 
10) In proposed section 41A (4), omit 'or she'. 
Omit subsection (6) of proposed section 41  a. 
Omit subsection (11) of proposed section 4 1  a. 
Clause 1 3 provides for a new section in the Bill to enable a person who is posted overseas in the service of Australia, a State or a public authority to enrol in respect of his overseas address. The effect of this provision is that such a person, who would otherwise not be entitled to have his name retained on the roll, would be entitled to enrolment for the subdivision to which he has a fixed intention of returning but in respect of his overseas address. 
Provision has also been made to cover the enrolment of the spouses of persons entitled to enrolment by virtue of that section. Further provision has been made to cover changes of address and for the machinery to maintain the role in respect of persons who secure enrolment under the proposed new section. Sub-clause (11) defines 'public authority'. The Opposition's objection to this clause is that it does not go far enough and really represents an unfair amendment to the Act. The Opposition believes that the Act should be amended so that it applies to any person who has left Australia with the intention of returning, not just to a person who is a public servant or who is employed by a public authority. 
The Opposition's amendment on those lines was rejected previously by the Government as being too wide in scope. The reason why it was too wide was not given. The Government maintains that employees of the state would be overseas for three or four years, but the Opposition's amendment would cover absences overseas for an unlimited period. Of course many private employees and others go overseas for limited periods. So the principle involved is this: If it is good enough for one category of citizens to have this right, it must be appropriate that the right be available to all. As I have mentioned, the clause requires certain consequential amendments which need not be detailed. They are amendments (2) to ( 12) which I have moved. The argument in relation to this matter was carried on when a similar Bill- the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill- was debated in April of this year and in November of last year. As I have said earlier, the Government has seen fit to re-introduce it in this dessicated form, with no fewer than 6 Bills. But this provision is the same and no argument has been offered by the Government as to why it should not be enlarged in the way in which the Opposition suggests. It must be seen as part of the attempt by the Australian Labor Party to change the electoral laws and boundaries in its own favour. There cannot be any rational reason for the provision being restricted. The Opposition has moved its amendments in order to widen the provision. 
-The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  has put forward a curious set of arguments. If he examines my amendments- I hope that he has read them- he will see that it is the Opposition's intention to widen the provision. What the Goverment is seeking to do is to say: 'If you are in the government service abroad you can have a vote'. 
It says 'the service of the Crown'. The Minister used the phrase 'in the government service' three or four times so I think that we can take it that that accords with his reading now of a line of the Bill. The Minister says that people who are not in the service of the Crown- in the government service- should not have a vote. So the Minister is the one who is restricting it, not 1. 1 think that that argument can be put to rest. I do not know how the Minister can argue that because somebody is working for the Government he is in a superior position to somebody who is abroad for other reasons. Perhaps there was a clue in the phrase which the Minister used- I wrote it down- 'others overseas for personal and private reasons'. Of course, a lot of people go overseas to work on behalf of Australian employers. Are we to take the view that if people work for the Government somehow they are superior to those who work for the private sector? I would have thought that that was a very surprising argument to put forward. So far from seeking to restrict, we are seeking to broaden it. We recognise that people overseas with the intention of returning to Australia have an argument about voting. In fact it is an argument I have often put myself and, I think, in this House. It is silly to confine this to a few. 
Reference was made to somebody being overseas for 20 years but when we hear weak arguments being put up it indicates that the  speaker  does not have much confidence in what is being said. I suggest that if somebody is overseas for 20 years he would have a good deal of trouble convincing people that he had a fixed intention of returning. He might, in a rare case, be able to convince somebody and if that is so I would say his name should go on the roll. However, questions like that have to be determined like questions or residency do under other Acts. To mention an important case, residency is very important under the income tax legislation and it is a question of fact which in the last analysis has to be determined by the circumstances. There are no arbitrary rules. So it would be in this case and somebody will have to make a judgment about whether a person has a fixed intention of returning. If he does have such an intention I think we can regard him as an Australian with a right to vote. That is what this is all about. I am seeking to broaden the Bill in order to cover people in wider categories than those in the service of the government or the Crown. We have heard from the Minister for Housing and Construction no argument that really meets that objection and answers in any way the thrust of the argument I have put forward. 
I move: 
After clause 24, insert the following new clause: '24a. After section 88 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: '88a ( 1 ) The Divisional Rewriting Officer for each Division that exceeds 260 000 square kilometres in area shall keep a register, to be called the Register of General Postal Voters. '(2) Where a person is enrolled as an elector for a Division referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), otherwise than by virtue of section 39a or 41a, and is it normally difficult for him to vote at a polling booth open in the State for which he is enrolled by reason of- 
the distance between the address in respect of which he is enrolled and the nearest place in the Division that is normally appointed a polling place; or 
the lack of adequate means of transport from that address to that place, he may at any time make an application in writing to the Divisional Returning Officer to be registered on the register for the Division. '(3) An application shall be signed by the applicant in his own handwriting and shall set out the name and address of the applicant and the grounds of the application. '(4) Upon receipt of the application, the Divisonal Returning Officer shall- 
if he decides that the application is properly made and that there is sufficient reason for registering the applicant under this section- register the applicant; or 
b ) if he decides otherwise- reject the application, and shall notify the applicant in writing accordingly. '(5) Subject to sub-section (6), the Divisional Returning Officer may at any time cancel the registration of an elector under this section, and in that event (except where the elector is deceased) he shall notify the elector in writing. '(6) The Divisional Returning Officer is not empowered to register an elector or (except where the elector is deceased) cancel the registration of an elector under this section after 6 o'clock in the afternoon of the day of the issue of the writ, and before the close of the poll, for an election.  '(7) An elector who is registered under this section is, by force of this section, but subject to Part VI and to the regulations, entitled to vote at an election in accordance with this Part. '(8) As soon as practicable after the hour of nomination for an election the Divisional Returning Officer shall send a postal vote certificate and a postal ballot-paper or postal ballot-papers, as the case requires, to each elector who is registered on the register for the Division, other than an elector who has made an application under section 85. '. '. 
This clause would insert into the Act a provision to assist those living in remote areas to lodge postal votes. The Opposition feels strongly about this matter. It was put forward in the debate on the relevant clause of the Bill debated in this Parliament in, I think, April of this year. I shall read the initial part of the amendment to clause 24 in order to put the concept into the minds of those following the debate. It reads:  24a. After section 88 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 
1 ) The Divisional Returning Officer for each Division that exceeds 260 000 square kilometres in area shall keep a register, to be called the Register of General Postal Voters. 
Where a person is enrolled as an elector for a Division referred to in sub-section (1), otherwise than by virtue of section 39a or 41a, and it is normally difficult for him to vote at a polling booth open in the State for which he is enrolled by reason of- 
the distance between the address in respect of which he is enrolled and the nearest place in the Division that is normally appointed a polling place; or 
the lack of adequate means of transport from that address to that place, he may at any time make an application in writing to the Divisional Returning Officer to be registered on the register for the Division. 
I will not read the rest of the machinery part of that proposed new section. The parts I have read are at the core of the argument. It is really something of a surprise to the Opposition that the Government resists this amendment as strongly as it does. We have heard in several debates that the Government wishes to facilitate the voting by people at election time, yet so many of its proposals are to restrict it in terms of time or postal votes generally- we will come to that matter when we deal with the next Bill- and in terms of that clause which we last debated providing some people who are living overseas with the right to vote. Here we have a solution to the problem which many country people have. They live a long way from the polling booth. 
-I am glad to have the interjection of the honourable member for Wakefield, some of whose electors live in places which are very far removed from polling booths. I know that he has taken a close interest in the matter. The other day he was rather critical of the responsible Minister for closing booths and making it even harder for a group of people to vote who I think live 260 miles- or perhaps kilometres- from the next booth. 
-Two hundred and sixty miles. It seems to be a course of conduct by the Government that it wishes to make it more difficult for people to vote and to restrict the availability of booths for people, yet at the same time insists that voting is compulsory. With regard to the problem of postal voting, we have provisions in the Act which provide for a procedure which is rather slow moving. Voters have to fill in an application form which has to go into an office. The form has to be checked and ballot papers have to be sent out through the mail. The people have to vote and their vote has to go back through the mail. This is all done within a time limit. Of course with the Post Office as it is- I do not want to be too rude about its operations but it is common knowledge that some of its transportation of votes is a bit slow- and with the understandable congestion in an electoral office whilst an election is being conducted, I suppose it is not possible to process all of these applications and to sent out ballot papers the very next day. In some electorates there have been instances of postal vote envelopes somehow being put on the wrong trains and being sent in the wrong direction. Surely there is a need for something to be done about this situation. If the Government will not do anything about it, it can only be because it thinks there is party political advantage in not improving the system. We are saying that people should be able to be on a remote area's roll and that there ought to be facilities for making sure that those people get to vote. 
I sometimes am struck by the number of Labor members whose electorates are in the city. Of course some are in the country. It will be interesting to see how they vote on this matter. If one lives in the city one may well think: 'Well, the postman passes the door every day and really if the mail has to be used 3 times to record a postal vote what will not be any great inconvenience in the 3 or 4 weeks that it will involve'. But in many remote areas- I am not just thinking of areas as remote as the electorates of Grey or Kalgoorliepeople who firmly wish to cast a valid note have great difficulty in lodging it. We all heard earlier the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who has a city electorate. He said that no one has complained about the matter. Of course they have complained about it. He simply has not read  Hansard. 
If all the postal votes had been received in time at the last election for the seat of Kalgoorlie, who could say whether its representative would have been the man who is sitting in this chamber today? There were a great number of postal votes that were received and were not counted. Perhaps I could be forgiven for saying that that is a strange thing, but that is only one electorate. Some of the postal vote applications and the votes sent out in envelopes were put on the wrong train and went to the wrong village. It is a circumstance which makes even careful people a little suspicious. We will be making an appeal- I make it today but the debate is not being broadcast today- to people in remote areas who want to get rid of this Government to go and vote. Whether they drive, ride, walk or crawl they should get there and lodge a valid vote because one cannot be sure of the postal voting system operating efficiently, even if one does everything that one can in order to lodge a valid vote. I make that appeal to them and perhaps it will be continued by others on other occasions. 
People in remote areas have a right to vote as much as the next man. They are being deprived of that right under the existing circumstances. Certainly in the last general election in May 1974, there were many hold-ups and many delays and complaints about insufficient staff and things of that sort which, in the heat of an election campaign, cannot be dealt with. There is evidence; there is plenty of evidence. No doubt the Government could get lists from the Electoral Office of the votes that were subsequently received but which could not be counted because the time had expired. We will see that in the next Bill the Government wants to restrict that time limit. 
It does seem unbelievable. The Government wants to restrict that time limit so that more and more votes will be declared invalid. So much for the Government's motives in this area. With regard to the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, I say that when someone uses spurious arguments, I suppose it indicates the value of the provision. He said: 'Oh, we cannot have a special provision for one lot of people. How bad it would be if we had one for blacks, one for Catholics and so on. It would be used for other purposes'. He really said that in this chamber this morning. Of course if Government supporters cannot see the sense of having a register to help people to vote, I suppose we have little chance of convincing them. I have moved my amendment. The arguments are there. If necessary, I will add to my remarks later. 
-I can only say that having heard the remarks of the Minister my worst fears are realised in respect of this matter. Let me examine the arguments that were used. Firstly, we are told that if we have this proposed register it will be open to a good deal of abuse. It is said that there may be unnotified changes of addresses and there may be impersonations. We know the old jingle 'vote early and vote often'. 
-I think the Minister ought to be a bit more moderate than that. I do not practise it. I am saying that provision is made in the Electoral Act to cover people who commit these sorts of offences. In that regard there is nothing special about the register that we propose. If people commit offences in respect of addresses, impersonations and so on, penalties are provided in the legislation, but I am advised- if the contrary is the situation perhaps we will be toldthat very few people commit these offences. I am not aware that the number of people involved is great. If there are a large number then there needs to be a tightening up of the provisions relating to registration on all rolls. What we are talking about is having a separate register for people who are placed in great difficulties in lodging a valid vote. 
Hitler used to have it? I am afraid I just cannot follow the logic of that comment. What the Opposition is seeking is that in addition to the present roll in respect of which people have to apply for registration and so on there should be another roll or register with the same particulars, no more no less, indicating that the people live in remote areas. There is provision, which I did not read in full, for the electoral officer to check the  bona fides  of persons and no doubt he would have to continue to do that. We know that at any election there always is a number of errors on the roll. An enormous number of changes are made to the roll, far more than most people realise and even in respect of people who live in closely settled areas. At any particular time it is not possible to have the roll 100 per cent accurate, but I believe that most electoral rolls are accurate to a large degree. No doubt any remote areas register would be kept in exactly the same way as are the present rolls and of course there would be far fewer people enrolled than there would be on the main roll, so that argument is a spurious one. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  put up some argument about what happened in his electorate with absentee votes. We are not talking about absentee votes. An absentee vote is a vote lodged by someone who on the day is in a different electorate than the one for which he is enrolled. Such a person lodges the vote out of his electorate. He goes through a special procedure because not every electorate or polling booth has a complete list of persons entitled to vote. If there is any impropriety- to put it mildly- involved in respect of the result which the Minister spoke of, then he should take the matter further, but it has nothing to do with what we are speaking about. We are speaking about postal votes. 
Let me come to the gravamen of the whole business. He said there is adequate avenue for people to lodge a postal vote. A person has to fill in an application form. In many cases it has to be posted to Electoral Office because it cannot be taken a long distance by hand. The Ballot papers have to be posted out. The papers have to be marked and then posted back. I said by interjection that the Minister's argument is that of a city man. The papers are sent back and forth 3 times, which is too much, and we should bear in mind the existing position with mail deliveries and also the remoteness of some electors from polling  booths. Let us face it, the slowness of mail deliveries is getting worse and worse so it has particular importance now as against earlier elections in which I suppose the smaller volume of mail, to put the most charitable interpretation upon it, ensured that people had a greater chance of getting their postal vote in before the time limit had expired. The position is getting worse and worse and I believe that the figures for the last election will show that to be the position. There is enough of this happening- that is to say people being unable to lodge valid votes, to demonstrate the need for amendment to the law. 
In summary I say that the argument that somehow or another this proposed register will be more capable of manipulation than the main roll is invalid. The argument put on absentee votes is invalid. The argument that there is enough time to apply for a postal vote and always to cast a vote no matter where a person is living is also invalid. 
Question put: 
That the new clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr Garland's amendment)  be so inserted. 
-Amendment No. 16 which proposes to insert after clause 27 a new clause 27a is consequential on amendment No. 2 proposed to clause 8 which was put and which was defeated. I move: 
After clause 27, insert the following new clause: - '27a. Section 106 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in paragraph (b), after the word "christian" (wherever occurring), the words "or given ". '. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 28 agreed to. 
Clause 29. 
After section 1 1 3 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted:- ' 1 13a ( 1) Where a hospital is a polling place, the presiding officer may make arrangements with an appropriate person, or appropriate persons, on the staff of the hospital for the votes of patients in the hospital or in part of the hospital to be taken in accordance with this section. ' ( 5 ) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act- 
a polling booth shall not be provided at a special polling place; and 
votes may be taken under this section at a special polling place at such time or times as the presiding officer determines, being a time or times between 8 o'clock in the morning and 6 o'clock in the evening  on polling day or on one or more of the 5 days preceding polling day, and at no other time. 
-Amendment No. 17 circulated in my name is consequential on amendments proposed to Electoral Bill (No. 5) which was carried yesterday. Therefore I do not pursue the matter. I move: 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (a) omit 'polling day or on one or more of the 5 days preceding polling day,', substitute one or more of the5 days preceding polling day or between 8 o'clock in the morning and 8 o'clock in the evening on polling day,'. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 30. 
Section 1 14 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words 'christian name and surname' and substituting the words 'given name or names and place of living as appearing on the roll '. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 114 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words "name and surname" and substituting the words "or given name or names and surname and his place of living as appearing on the roll ' '. '. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 1 agreed to. 
Clause 32. 
Section 1 16 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words 'christian name' (wherever occurring) and substituting the words ' given name '. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 1 16 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after the word "christian" (wherever occurring) the words "or given ". 
As with an amendment proposed to a previous clause, this amendment is consequential upon  amendment No. 2, which has already been discussed, being accepted. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 33 to 56- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Schedule 1 
-When this debate was interrupted last night because of the time set for the adjournment debate I was making some comments on the speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  who introduced this Bill. This Bill is one of 6 Bills being presented to the House which contain provisions that were in Bills known as the Electoral Laws Amendment Bills which had twice been debated by the House in November last year and in April this year. In both those debates in this House and in the Senate the Opposition made clear its view that these Bills were intended to change the electoral procedures and the electoral laws in the interests of the Australian Labor Party and not in the interests of reform- a favourite word of the Minister- or of improving the electoral procedures. The Opposition still holds to that view. In respect of this Bill, however, the Opposition believes that a number of the provisions are worth while and I commented briefly last night about mobile polling booths. I said that we were not opposing that provision of the Bill which establishes mobile polling booths thought I believe that it needs to be watched to ensure that they will have the effect the Minister anticipates. 
Another proposal in this Bill requires a candidate to state whether he has changed his name within 12 months prior to nomination and if he has this detail is to be included on the ballot paper. Another proposal relates to a situation in which a person seeks to enrol under a name that is very strange and, as the Minister stated, is unacceptable. The Minister cited examples of instances at the 1974 Senate election where a number of persons enrolled under such names. One person changed his name to White Australia and another changed his name to Stop Asian Immigration Now. This Bill provides that a person with such an unacceptable name should not be entitled to be enrolled as a candidate, and the Opposition sees a lot of sense in that proposal. Those 2 provisions in the Bill are, of course, based on recent electoral experience. 
The Opposition thinks, however, that it is a pity that the provisions in the original Bill were divided into 6 new Bills. Firstly, we do not know why this happened. Secondly, we think it would have been more sensible had those provisions which we indicated we would agree to been put into one or perhaps 2 Bills so that there would be no question of moving amendments. Indeed little debate would be necessary. The amendments that we seek to this legislation are contained in a schedule which has been circulated. Honourable members following the debate will have seen those amendments in my name. In the Committee stages I will briefly outline why we take that view. We believe that clause 6 of the Bill ought to be deleted and our view will be put in some detail during the Committee stage. The Government is in the process of changing in Acts provisions which refer to christian names. They want to take out the words 'christian names' and substitute the words 'given names'. We believe there are still a lot of people who attach importance to having names which they regard as christian names and that there ought to be an option. So we will move amendments which will endeavour to change this Bill so that the appropriate provisions will include the word 'christian' or the words ' given names '. 
I will develop that a little later for the honourable member. I am actually surprised to hear that interjection from him. Another major amendment the Opposition seeks is in respect of the provision of voting facilities for people who live in remote regions in Australia. We believe that the present system of postal voting is inadequate and, bearing in mind the slowness of the mails in some cases and the very remote regions in which some people live, we will attempt to have this part of the Bill amended by inserting a clause, which has been drafted by the Parliamentary Draftsman, to make provision to cover the situation. As I indicated in debate yesterday on other electoral Bills, this amendment and the attitude of the Opposition will be pressed in the Senate in an identical manner. There are one or two other minor matters which perhaps one could leave until that time. I have outlined in general what we propose to do. We will be voting for the second reading of the Bill but we will be moving several amendments in the Committee stage. 
-The Opposition takes the same view of this clause as it did when the Bill was last in this place. The clause amends section 1 6 of the principal Act to provide that the Minister may engage staff to assist the Distribution Commissioners and that such staff of the Commissioners shall be paid such remuneration and allowances as the Minister determines. The Opposition believes that staff could be employed by the Commissioners themselves. It was argued during the previous debate on this Bill that that is not possible. I agree that there is some measure of doubt, although I have heard it denied. Even if that is the case I believe there is no reason why the Commissioners cannot draw on the Public Service, as departments do. 
Our objection, and the reasons why we take the matter seriously, is that we believe that it is not right for the Minister to come into these matters any more than he has to. I say that because he has the duty to appoint Commissioners, and one expects, as we have always urged, that those appointed should be independent persons and ones about whom no question can be raised. It is important that the staff be impartial and that those appointments have the appearance of impartiality. If the Minister is going to make staff available, then it certainly offends that second limb, that of the appearance of impartiality. We cannot avoid the situation in which there will be a certain suspicion by the parties in Opposition of such appointments of Commissioners and staff; and obviously that ought to be minimised as much as possible. In previous debates I have had something to say in stronger terms about this matter but I will not rake that up on this occasion unless it is necessary. It is the view of the Opposition that the Distribution Commissioners ought to draw on the resources of the Public Service to keep as much as possible an appearance of impartiality. There has been no reference in the speech of the Minister to that issue. He simply asserted his position again in spite of the fact that he would have been aware of the objection which we made when the Bill which contained this provision was previously before the House and the Senate. That is why the Opposition takes a strong view on this clause. The Opposition will vote against the clause. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: "8. Section 31 of the principal Act is amended by inserting after the word 'Christian ' the words 'or given'. ' '. 
I referred to this clause when I spoke in the second reading debate. The Government proposes in this clause to omit the word 'Christian' and to substitute the word 'Given'. The Opposition believes that while there is some argument in favour of what the Government is proposing an alternative ought to be provided so that the clause will relate to Christian or given names. If our proposal is adopted other amendments will be moved. I foreshadow consequential amendments to clauses 27, 30 and 32. 1 do not imagine, as this matter was debated during the second reading stage, that there is a great need to elaborate on the reasons for the amendment. 
I think that some of the arguments used by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  were valid. However, he failed to answer the proposition that the clause ought to contain an alternative and not refer exclusively to a given name, as is intended. As it was indicated to me earlier that it would not be in accordance with proceedings to move all my amendments together, I will at this stage speak only to the amendment to clause 8 and will perhaps deal with the others as appropriate later. The Government, as was said by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  seems to have a great desire to remove from its forms and its Acts any reference to the Christian religion which, of course, is overwhelmingly the religion of most citizens of Australia. I conclude by drawing attention to the situation that applies with regard to the Government's income tax returns. We think that the practice applied to those forms ought to be standardised throughout the community. Therefore we put this amendment with some force. 

 Mr RIORDAN (Phillip)-Minister for Housing and Construction) (12.49)- The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. It persists with its Bill. I find the argument in favour of making provision for both given and Christian names in the Bill somewhat ludicrous to put it frankly. I remind honourable gentlemen that the essence of Christianity is not served by simply putting in an electoral Act the words 'Christian name'. Those who seek to uphold these principles might be better advised to go a little deeper into the matter and perhaps look to see whether or not character assassination and misleading statements might not be more offensive to those who uphold Christianity than the question of simply changing the first name definition from Christian name to given. I believe the argument the Opposition puts is rooted in hypocrisy. 
The fact of the matter is that in the Australian community there are many faiths and many religions. With the advent of the current Government people from many different parts of the world have come to Australia. They will increasingly accept citizenship in Australia and they will increasingly seek to enrol on the electoral rolls. Many of these people are from nonChristian countries, if I could put it that way, and we ought to recognise that not everybody in the Australian community upholds the Christian view, even formally. There are many people who do not uphold it at all. There are many people who believe in Buddhism, in Judaism and in Islam to name a few. There are many who have no religion at all. Civil laws ought to recognise that a pluralistic society accepts that there will be many different religions. I believe this to be a proposal which should not receive a great deal of consideration. 
Surely honourable gentlemen opposite have seen immigration forms from various countries around the world when they have travelled, as many of them have done and do extensively, where the first name is described as the given name. Surely honourable members opposite understand that there is a family name or a surname, as we sometimes call it, and that there is a given name which may be a Christian or a nonChristian name. Let us look at the definition of Christian name. It is generally believed to be the name given to a person at the time of a christening or baptism. 
We want both. 
It is the exclusive use of the word 'or'. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr Garland's amendment)  stand pan of the Bill. 
-This Bill is the last of 6 Electoral Bills presented to the House at this time. The provisions of the 6 Bills are the same as the provisions of a Bill which was debated in this House in November last year and April this year; so we again have all of them in front of us for the third time. The arguments are reasonably well known. However the reason for putting the provisions forward now in 6 separate Bills has not been given by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly).  Indeed, by his silence, he has refused to give it. The Opposition has suggested several times that it should be disclosed. The Minister came into the House on 28 August with 6 Bills and read 6 speeches. The 

<graphic href="097131197510152_37_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510152_37_1.jpg"></graphic>

speech on this Bill covers a few pages of  Hansard.  The Bill purports to be some sort of reform of the electoral system, which is an Australian Labor Party euphemism for changing the law in its favour. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  earlier in the day mentioned that all Bills, including this Bill, were related to one another and said that the Opposition had refused a cognate debate. He tried to imply that there had been some reprehensible conduct on the part of the Opposition. Of course it was the Government that decided to split the matters contained in this Bill from those in the other Bills. It was the Government that made 6 speeches. So the Opposition believes that it should state its position in relation to the provisions of the Bill so that they can be recorded for those interested in these matters and so we can reaffirm our view, after- of course considering the matters that are put forward. 
There were in the previous Bill provisions on which there was no disagreement. Of course the Opposition was not entirely in agreement with the Bill because it had to move a number of amendments, but a number of provisions were agreed to. There were one or two minor items in some of the other Bills with which we agreed but because they were mixed up with other provisions, in our view deliberately by the Government, we could hardly delete 90 per cent of the Bill. It made it difficult for us to vote for the Bill. In the speeches I made then and in the speech I made on this Bill the Opposition's arguments and disagreement with the major portion of this legislation have been made clear. 
This Bill includes a number of items. I suppose it deals mainly with postal voting. Provisions relating to postal voting are contained in clauses 5 to 10 and 12 to 14, which the Opposition has opposed previously. Clause 3 deals with the appointment of Distribution Commissioners to draw up electoral boundaries. Clause 4 deals with objection to names on the roll, clause 15 deals with various articles by editors and proprietors of newspapers, and clause 1 1 deals with the questions to be put to the voter when he is receiving his ballot paper. The Bill also gives prisoners sentenced to less than one year's imprisonment the right to apply for a postal vote. That was not opposed by the Opposition previously. 
As practically all of the Bill is not supported by the Opposition, rather than go through the lengthy business of attempting amendment we propose to oppose the whole Bill. I put forward that explanation as to why we have reached that decision. If the Government had not included in this Bill items which it knows we agree with- it knows because we have debated the matter twice in the House and twice in the Senate previously, although not in the form of the present Bill- then it would have been an easy matter. The question arises as to why the Government is fiddling about with these provisions for the third time when so many serious problems are facing the country. Of course the package of proposals which were in the one Bill before and are in 6 Bills now are there, in the main, to aid the fortunes of the Australian Labor Party at election time. The way its stocks are at the moment I suppose it will need all the assistance it can get. The Minister in his speech on this Bill- I might add a highly political speech - 
It was a terrible speech. The time was when Ministers in this place, even on matters that were highly controversial, would introduce a Bill with a second reading speech which was reasonably low key, free of abuse and put a view calmly as the considered view of the Government. That in recent years has gone by the board and the speeches made by the Minister on the Electoral Bills are sprinkled with abuse and epithets. I believe the second reading speech on this Bill is no exception. Let me take up some of the arguments that have been put by the Minister. He put forward, I think as his major argument- at any rate, it was the first one- that the provisions of this Bill would result in speedier finalisation of election results. As one had to argue in speaking to a Bill yesterday, it is only of advantage to get a quicker result if the result is a fair one, if it really expresses the intentions of the people of Australia. The fact that it takes a bit longer to count and there is a little more inconvenience to officers of the Australian Electoral Office, who after all are paid to do the job, is really of small consequence against what is intended, which is to find the intention of the people as expressed through their votes in the ballot box. So that is a pretty weak argument to begin with. 
The Minister proposes to do 2 things in respect of postal votes. I talked about postal votes and particularly the needs of people in the remote regions a little earlier. The Minister proposes to restrict the time within which postal votes may be received. In other words, he is going to disfranchise a certain number of people who for one reason or another, sometimes because they live a long way from a postal polling place, will not be able to lodge their vote by a certain time. He is going to restrict a certain number of them, and their votes are going to be invalid. That is the direct consequence of what is being done here, and I believe it is being done deliberately because the Government has come to the conclusion that by and large those postal votes that come in late do not favour it. 
-Therefore the more the Government can cut down these votes the better. We will be seeing more of what the Government intends to do in some detail in a moment. I was pleased to hear agreement from the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  because I know that he among many members here is very knowledgeable in the field of postal votes. I notice from looking at election results that he seems to find at the time these votes are counted that he is very popular with the majority of people who vote in this manner.  His  popularity is well deserved, and all praise to him for that. I think most honourable members would regard him as an authority on this matter, and I look forward to his intervention in this debate in a little while. 
The provision relating to objection to names on the roll is perhaps a curious one. One can argue, and perhaps we will hear this argument a little later, that with inflation all penalties and fees in Acts ought to be increased. However, on consideration, we believe that in this area a stringent penalty ought not be provided for. If one knows of names on the roll that can be questioned, why should the fee become greater? We are not very impressed with that provision and believe that it ought not be pursued. That is one of the reasons why we will vote against the Bill. 
I turn to the major objections in a little more detail. Firstly, clause 5 deals with postal vote applications. Under this Bill the latest time that which an application may be received is to be 6 p.m. on the Thursday preceding the poll instead of 6 p.m. on the day before, the Friday. That will have the consequence of cutting out a few people, and we do not believe that change ought to be made. Far more serious than that is clause 10 which provides that postal votes need to be received by the divisional returning officer by the close of the poll; that is to say, 8 p.m. on polling day or, as the Government would like, 6 p.m. We oppose that change. That will have the effect of making invalid a significant number of postal votes. Some people may be overseas; many are in remote regions. Let us be blunt about the mattersome people rather neglect to go on with their applications as soon as an election is called but they become aware of the situation in the last few days. The present situation is that we have up to 10 days after polling day to get postal votes in. That is a lengthy time which, even taking account of the present breakdown in postal services which is experienced in many regions, is a reasonable time. But the Government does not want that; it wants to eliminate the effectiveness of as many postal votes as it can. What is its argument? It gets a quicker result. 
Of course not a lot of election results depend on postal votes. Some of them do. When they do, surely to heaven the aim should be to provide as great an opportunity as possible for electors on a particular roll to express their view and to cast their votes. So there is no need to cut them off in this way. It would be a large restriction and would cut out 10 days for those who have to vote through the mail to have their votes recorded. The vote must be received by that time and not simply postmarked before that time or anything of that kind. The call for a quicker result is a bit hollow because there are other ways, if the Government wants to do it, of getting the counting done. America and other countries have experimented in these areas. The Government is not proposing anything of that kind. It is just pointing to a few things which will help it and which will, in this case, disfranchise people to a greater degree because of the present postal system. There are two limbs to that argument. Firstly, there is the earlier closing off of applications but, secondly and more importantly, there is the earlier time by which votes have to be received before they can be counted. 
This is a compulsory system. The Government wants that compulsory system to be universal. Obviously from the intention of this proposal it wants it to be compulsory for some and to disfranchise others. Many votes are now received after polling day and 3 weeks, which is the time between nomination day and polling day, is not very long. Until nominations close, ballot papers cannot be printed because the names or the number of candidates are not known with certainty. So no applications for a postal vote can be answered before that date. The Government has called for a restriction of that period. Considering that it is compulsory to vote and that many people in the community are not following political affairs as closely as we in this House do, it can take those people a little while to realise that they are in a period in which they must act reasonably quickly. I believe 3 weeks is too short a period. 
An important exception is the position of those in remote regions, although I do not confine my argument entirely to that. There is no doubt that remote areas in this country are very poorly serviced by facilities for postal voting or, for that matter, by application forms, which are a little harder to get than some people who are involved in the electoral process seem to believe. Of course if those people cannot get an application form it costs them a vote. I do not think I have to make more than a passing point that some electorates cover very wide areas. I believe the laws have the right to make available to people as great a facility as possible to lodge a vote through the mail if they conform to the conditions of the application. That is all provided in the law so there is no particlar difficulty there. It was suggested by an earlier  speaker  that there is a great deal of abuse of this system. Any system will have a modicum of abuse, and I suggest that there is not much abuse in that respect of the Australian electoral system. If the situation is very serious we need to have hard evidence about it and we need to have a tightening up of the whole procedure; but I do not think that is the case. I think that is just an argument that is brought forward because it is so hard to make arguments other than the real one, which is the desire to cut down the number of valid votes which are being cast through the post. 
Clause 7 amends section 89 of the Act to provide that a person is not entitled to inspect applications under subsection (3) for the purpose of compiling lists of names of the persons who made postal vote applications except where such a list is genuinely required for the purpose of an inquiry into an alleged breach of the Act or a petition under Part XVIII of the Act. The clause makes it an offence for a person to use a list for reasons other than those. That seems to me to be a curious provision. I remember that when we debated this matter on the last occasion Government members were intent on seeing this as a matter which was creating abuse as though somehow or other there was something wrong with it. The Opposition simply does not believe that there is anything wrong with that practice. Why would it matter if an individual's application for a postal vote were available for a few days for anybody to read? If a potential political candidate reads it and approaches that person to vote at a subsequent election I do not see that that matters very much, because questions of harassment and other breaches of law involved are another matter and are covered by other legislation. 
I have struck many cases, as I am sure all honourable members have, of people welcoming their attention being drawn to the technicalities surrounding polling day and in many cases they regard it as assistance. If they do not so regard it they can simply brush it off, and if they have made up their minds how they are going to vote it is their concern. This appears to be some attempt to inhibit an operation which is widely practised by all parties, and I would have thought it is a practice which cannot be validly criticised at all. I think the imputation that somehow there is something immoral about it is just an attempt to make something where no other argument exists. 
Clause 8 omits section 92 of the Principal Act. The effect of the amendment would be that a postal voter would no longer be able to post or deliver his postal vote to a divisional returning officer other than the divisional returning officer for the division in respect of which he is enrolled or to an assistant returning officer or to any presiding officer. The clause would mean that postal votes would have be be delivered or posted direct to the relevant divisional returning officer. At present they can be delivered or posted to a divisional returning officer other than in the division for which an elector is enrolled. The proposal is another restriction and in some cases I think it would lead to more difficulty in the mails. This system would perhaps help a little in the procedures on polling day, but I do not believe, with respect to those who are engaged in administration, that that should be our primary interest. Our primary interest must be that a large degree of convenience is afforded to the public and that the result is the proper interpretation of the valid votes that are cast by people. So, we oppose the provision and say that it is one of those relatively minor matters which would create more irritation and more difficulties for the elector who is compulsorily required to vote and for the elector who wants to vote and who wants to vote validly. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1981 that was placed on the Notice Paper on 18 February 1975 and was unanswered by 23 May 1975. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What precisely were the October initiatives through  Mr Michael  Murphy referred to on page 3566 of  Hansard  of 9 July 1975. 
) What is the present position concerning them. 
What connection is there with  Mr Khemlani  or  Mr Harris. 
Is the relationship continuing. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he please table the letter to  Dr Cairns  of 23 April 1975 referred to on page 3566 of  Hansard  of 9 July 1975; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the facts of the report from  Mr McKay,  Secretary of the Department of Overseas Trade, recording that the Trade Commissioner in Milan had reported an apparent loan of $A500 million was being sought for Australia, and that promissory notes to this effect, giving the terms as a 20-year compound loan resulting in a total repayment of $A2,486 million, with the signature of the former Minister for Minerals and Energy on them, had been lodged with the small German Bank, Wurttembergische in Ulme. 
In particular, has the former Minister for Minerals and Energy signed on behalf of the Government any promissory notes. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report that Australia was seeking a loan of $US4 billion, directly or indirectly, through the Mercantile Bank and Trustee Company Limited of Freeport, Bahamas. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a letter dated 28 April 1975 signed by  Mr Robert  E. Cordes  President,  and  Mr Robert  N. Lightbourne, Assistant Vice-President, advising that the Reserve Bank of Australia would provide promissory notes for $US 19.89 billion, maturing m 20 years, if SUS4.267 billion were deposited in a New York bank on behalf of the Reserve Bank within 30 days. 
Does he have any information at all on this matter; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Government to have all the VIP cars painted white; if not, what exactly is the intention. 
Are 2 cars painted black to be retained at the request of the Department of Foreign Affairs; if not, what is the position. 
How many cars are located at various places in Australia. 
What types are they. 
What colours are they painted. 

 -Mr Speaker- 


 - Mr Speaker, a notice of motion. . 
I give notice that at the next day of sitting -- 

 -Mr Speaker, I suggest - 
I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House condemns the Government for- 
1 ) Being the most incompetent and disastrous government in the history of Australia; 
Bringing the Australian economy to the brink of disaster by incompetence of the worst kind when the Australian economy is basically one of the strongest and healthiest in the world; 
Continuing to hide from the Australian people the full extent of the damage done to the economy and the inevitable hardships to be caused to its people; 
Continuing to create hardship for the weaker sections of the Australian community who are suffering needlessly; 
Maintaining policies which have caused incredibly high inflation which has reduced people'ssavings by almost one-third since the present Labor Government has been in office and which threatens people's -security and the very basis of our institutions; 
Creating unemployment which the Government predicts will exceed 400 000persons and inevitably means this year 's school leavers start life on the dole; 
Taking no decisive steps to curb inflation which the Minister for Labor and Immigration has warned could reach the incredible height of 35 per cent per annum; 
8 ) Producing a Budget which is a hoax in that it estimates a deficit of $2, 500m when it clearly is going to be at least $3, 500m and could reach $4,000m without any concern being expressed by the Government; 
Allowing a course of conduct by Ministers of the Government which amounts to grossly improper standards, including attempts to evade the Constitution in the events surrounding the infamous loans affair, scandals involving the relations of Ministers and political appointments; 
Continuing strong attempts to conceal the truth and the failure of the Prime Minister to resign when nine of the present Labor Government's senior Ministers have either resigned, been dismissed or demoted because of incompetence or impropriety, including two who were acting Prime Minister for a period following which the Prime Minister said he could not trust them; 
Attempting to cling to office and refusing to face the people at an election when the aforegoing clearly indicate the present Labor Government's unfitness to govern. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Government still engaged in endeavouring to raise a sum of $ 1,000m or more for the purposes set out in the Executive Council Minute of 13 December 1974 as subsequently interpreted by the Government. 
Will he elaborate on the intentions of the Government in this area. 
Why was Executive Council authority necessary for  Dr Cairns  to raise the loan after that authority was given to him by the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act to the extent of $250m. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1985, is there any evidence, other than his belief, that the case Australia put to the International Court of Justice in 1973 served as a focal point in the mobilisation of international opinion against French atmospheric testing, and that this factor was one which influenced the French Government in the decision which it took. 
) If so, what precisely is the evidence. 
If not. are there sufficient grounds for making such a statement. 
-I should like to take this opportunity to offer my congratulations to the new  Speaker  and to the  Deputy  Speakers on their election in this place. In the short time that is available to me at the end of this debate, might I say that, having listened to a number of speeches during the Address-in-Reply debate, I have found the debate to be an interesting one. A feature of the debate, so far as the speeches of the members of the Labor Party are concerned, has been the paucity of valid argument. That indicates a Party which is so bereft of policy and leadership that it is reduced to mouthing inane arguments. From how many speakers have we heard charges of Central Intelligence Agency influence on the Governor-General? There were at least four that I counted. 
Members of the Labor Party have talked about a  coup d'etat  on 1 1 November as though there was some sort of revolution in this country. They have said that democracy here is dead. That was their cry, as though the fact that the people of Australia gave the Australian Labor Party a vote of less than 50 per cent represents a defeat of democracy. That sort of statement has been repeated, but I suggest that honourable members opposite could not possibly believe that sort of argument. But they repeat it over and over again. Surely that indicates that the Labor Party has no policy or understanding. I suppose it was understandably stunned. But look at the quality of Labor's amendment to the AddressinReply.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am sure you will be relieved to know that I intend to refer to that amendment. Paragraph (a) states: 
Done like a dinner, as the honourable member for Swan said very perceptively This is a spurious amendment. Of course 1 will be voting against it. But it does say something about the Labor Party. It is the major aspect of attack that the Party could put forward. Their lack of understanding of the Government's objectives has been evident from the distortion of policy in the speeches made by most Labor speakers, and I see one or two of them here now. I credit them with knowing more about the Government's objectives than they disclosed in those speeches. I believe that they have a greater understanding than they indicated. There is some indication that they do not want to understand. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  spoke not long ago and presented an incredible distortion of a number of announcements relating to Government policies and objectives. 
The Australian people know full well that expenditure in this country has to be cut, that the rate of increase has to be cut. The Public Service, in spite of appeals by the Labor Party, knows very well that its rapid rate of growth cannot go on. 
In relation to their argument about the Government's federalism policy, surely it would do many members of the Labor Party good to read the documents and to read what has been announced about that policy. There will be no double tax in the sense that the policy will increase tax. The Labor Party should be the last party to talk about increased taxes. It raised the level of tax in this country to an unprecedented height. There will be no disadvantage to the smaller States. That is mere wishful thinking by them. What is the purpose of the maintenance of the role of the Grants Commission? The aim of the policy relating to the Commission, and apparently the Labor Party finds it obnoxious, is to give greater decision making power to local communities and to the States. Surely that is an objective that we all ought to support. Can it really be claimed that in all areas of government the Federal Government administration is wiser and more efficient? One only has to make that statement to see that it would be an invalid claim. The aim of the Government is to achieve a reasonable balance and division of powers. There are some areas of government that are best run in Canberra. There are other areas that are better run in the States and others in local communities. The Government must aim to get a reasonable balance of powers and responsibilities. Obviously a good deal of sorting out will be necessary, but the need for better government in Australia and more local involvement needs to be worked at seriously and persistently. 
Economic issues are of course the main concern of the country at present, and Australians know that. It has been many years since a government was elected with a mandate to make cuts and revision. I hope that the Government will continue to seek out areas, perhaps some where there are a few sacred cows, in an endeavour to get more efficiency. I hope that it will seek to place its priorities in of order and not believe that every claim, even a worthy one, necessarily has to be answered by spending more of the taxpayers ' money. There is a need for people to have a greater share of their own earnings to spend in their own way. It is not just a question of dollars and cents. The effect on the people is the important aspect because the economy of the country has an effect on every single person in our community. Whatever may have been Labor's policies and objectives, whatever may have been the motives, their result is the greatest unemployment this country has ever seen, the highest interest rates, the most prolonged inflation rate and the greatest recession since the 1930s. This Government has a clear mandate to stop that because the people who suffered most were the weak. That is based on clear statements made by men engaged in welfare services in this country. The Liberal and National Country Parties need to build up the productive and employment capacity of this country for the greater benefit of every Australian. They need to build up the national cake in order that all may have a greater share. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The attitude of the Labor Opposition, as outlined by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  was interesting to listen to. The Opposition spokesman said that the Opposition will not move amendments to these Bills. I was told on the telephone this morning by a union representative that the Opposition had been instructed specifically not to move amendments because the unions want these Bills and this scheme to be carried. However, the Opposition has moved an amendment the effect of which, if carried, would be to defeat the Superannuation Bill. Even though the opening words of the amendment say to the contrary, that would be the effect under the Standing Orders. The honourable member for Gellibrand is the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations. 
-Perhaps he is; it is rather soon to tell. I do not mind taking this opportunity to say that I have a high regard for the ability of the honourable member for Gellibrand. I do not disparage him personally, however, I point out that the Opposition's attitude is seen in terms of opposition on behalf of unions, not in terms of the community or of this being a Treasury measure. The Labor Government's Superannuation Bill was treated as such by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  the Minister Assisting the Treasurer in that Government. He put that Bill through this House and so put the matter in its proper context. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand misunderstood the former Opposition's attitude and statements in a number of respects. I will reply to some of them in the course of my substantive remarks. It really is not true to say that on the whole government superannuation schemes of non-Labor States are superior. It is not true to say that the Liberal and National Country Parties ever had a proposal under which no pension could be received until a person reached 65 years of age. It is not true to say that the Senate blocked the Labor scheme. The then Senate opposition presented a large number of amendments in 4 categories. The Senate agreed with 3 of the 4. If the Government of that day had seen fit either to agree to them or to talk about a modification of them and some compromise, the scheme would have gone through then, very much earlier than is now possible. This scheme will not come into effect until 1 July. I shall say a little more about that in a moment. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand gave a comparison of certain features of the Commonwealth and State schemes. I do not propose to follow all those points. I make the comment that the comparisons he made can be answered, necessarily at some length, firstly, in terms of the definitions that have been used and which I think he was careful to follow- no doubt some advice was given to him, and I do not say that in a critical way- and, secondly, by saying that the comparisons lacked that examination, which is necessary when one is comparing 2 superannuation schemes, of the whole package to see all the features. It is relatively easy to pick out one or two items in isolation. This package is a favourable one. 
The 3 Bills which are before the House now embody a superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Government employees which is a result of negotiation and argument since about 1970. 1 will not trace the whole history of it. There have been a number of reports on various schemes and proposals. Throughout that period there have been lengthy and detailed negotiations with Public Service unions involved, both individually and jointly. There are 22 such unions, incidentally. There has been considerable controversy in Parliament and hot debate in the community about the benefits and costs. This scheme represents the result of all that effort and activity. It contains many desirable features for Government employees and I believe it strikes a just balance between the demands of Public Service unions and individual Government employees on the one hand, and the cost to the taxpayer and the community on the other hand. 
Every superannuation scheme contains many features- contributions, retirement age, pension entitlements, just to name 3 broad areas. Each of those features can range from the very generous all the way to the ungenerous. Each scheme is a package of features. This scheme strikes a balance as a result of all that negotiation. It is our belief that the Labor Government scheme was over-generous. The examination of its features which took place publicly, mainly in May and June last year, I think made this obvious. 
That is contained in the Minister's second reading speech which I would have assumed the honourable member would have read. The examination of the features which took place in the middle of last year made the fact that the Labor scheme was over-generous obvious to most people. I know a number of Labor members of parliament who were also of the opinion that it was over-generous and I know a number of well-informed public servants who were of that opinion as well. 
I will not go over all the features. The Minister's speech and explanatory memoranda have done that very well. The major complaint which came to me, and I think to most members of parliament, from Government employees was the . contribution system which required that early in his employment a public servant pay a small percentage of his salary for superannuation and that percentage rises steeply, particularly for those wanting to retire at 60 years or between 60 and 65 years. Those in their final years found that burden almost impossible to bear. That has been realised for some years. This scheme meets that problem fully. We are now speaking of a new scheme in which there is a compulsory contribution of 5 per cent of salary and an option to pay up to another 5 per cent. I think the way I have expressed it is less misleading than the way it was put to us a moment ago when it was said that the contribution was to be a maximum of 10 per cent. There is a compulsory payment of 5 per cent and an optional payment of up to another 5 percent. 
For that the contributor gets a pension based on his final salary- not the average of the salary in his last year or the average of his salary in the last 3 years or 5 years of service, as with many private schemes. The benefit is based on the final salary. He gets from the Government after 30 years' service 50 per cent of final salary, and an additional percentage which is the result of the contributions he has made during his period of service and which can reach a maximum of an extra 20 per cent depending on salary level and length of service. On top of that, the Government portion, which as I have said represents 50 per cent of his final salary, is index-linked. In other words he gets an increase of the percentage rise of the consumer price index adjustments. This is a very generous provision which allows pensioners from Government employment to be largely insulated against the ravages of inflation which of course affect everyone else in the community, including all of those who are unable to be members of such a scheme as this. Additionally provided in this scheme is the right to receive a lump sum on retirement. This provision has not formerly existed. 
I point out those features to show what I mean when I say that it is a fair and indeed generous scheme. I think many of those in the Government service who have felt that opposition to an even more generous scheme was unfair, have not really understood, firstly, how generous it is and, secondly, the position of other people in the community outside Government service against which some sort of comparison or weighing up must be carried out by a responsible government. 
There are many other improvements- I think I have mentioned the main ones- in the scheme. Reference has been already made to the position of Provident Fund members. There are additional benefits for widows and orphans. I will not try to list all the features for they are in the memorandum. Naturally many Government employees would like to see even greater benefits. Their case has been put with some force by the members of the Australian Labor Party. But I put it to the House that a scheme that provides in times of high inflation complete index linking which provides full pension at the age of 60, is over-generous in terms of cost to the taxpayer and in terms of comparison with what is available to those outside the Government service. Some regard must be had to that. 
After all, where is the logic of full retirement benefits being paid at 60 years? Why not 58, 55 or 50 years? That of course will be the next claim, if it has not started already, by some of the unions. One understands and expects that, but it is not to be yielded to. This scheme put forward provides that if one retires at less than 65 years a pension equal to a smaller percentage of the final salary will be paid. There will be a discounting. The Government portion of the payment will reduce from 50 per cent of final salary at the retirement age of 65 to 45 per cent at the age of 60, with pro rata amounts in between those ages. Savings are significant. 
The argument has been put today and on earlier occasions that somehow or other the Government ought to be encouraging people to retire and to use this scheme as a method of getting people to retire early. That really does not stand examination. I remind the House of what was said in debates last year, that retirement at age 60 as against 65 would be at a cost of 30 per cent more to the taxpayer. This is not a small cost. So today, in a time of budgetary restrictions, to use that as a method of getting people out of the Public Service would be farcical. It is also argued: 'Well, when someone has reached the age of sixty, he ought' to be retired to make way for a younger man'. Of course that would be covered not by the superannuation legislation but by the Public Service Act and like Acts. I am sure that a number of honourable members in this House over 60 years of age would quickly agree with me that compulsory retirements are not necessarily in the national interest. On a more serious note, of course, the argument about making way for younger men can be used for people at any age. It could be used for those at 55 years of age or 50 years of age. Perhaps some people are too old or ineffective at 40 years of age. 
During debate in this House last year Labor presented its scheme as an 'all or nothing' proposal. That was the Labor Party's attitude. That attitude has resulted in the delay of almost a year. I hope that fact is completely clear. What we saw was a majority of the Labor Party- not all, I happen to know- playing pure politics. The Labor Party had no other consideration in mind than the votes of the potential 300 000 members of this scheme and no doubt some of their relatives. In our comments in the debates we made it clear that we were prepared to give consideration to having some give and take about all the features in the total package which I have mentioned. We were positively refused drafting advice. I have a letter from the then AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Enderby,  refusing that advice. Other advice was locked off from us once it was known that we opposed much of the scheme. I say that if that had not happened, it would have been possible to reach the sort of agreement, the sort of package that we have before us today, much earlier. It could well have been introduced by about the beginning of September last year. 
A lot of discussion went on, not in Parliament but in the Labor Party and the Liberal-National Country Parties in July-September last year, initiated, I believe, by the Public Service unions- and all credit to them for that. But the Labor Government then rejected whatsoever any compromise or change, or treating. It was completely rejected. I am told it was the then Prime Minister himself who in particular wanted to hold out in the belief that if we went into an election with a conflict of this kind it would result in more support for the Labor Party. I say that that resulted in a delay of almost the 12 months. The final scheme we have today could easily have been ready long before now. So we went through the election and here today we have a scheme which is a fair one put to this House. I have no doubt that it will be carried, that the amendment will be defeated and that the Bill will be passed by the Senate so that the scheme can be implemented by 1 July 1976 as provided. 
The cost of this scheme is more, but within it and among the details- not merely the aggregate figures referred to a little earlier- there is a great improvement in the equity, in the use of the money to be allocated for the scheme. Because of the technical changes of the scheme the cost to the Budget during the next financial year will not be an increase over what it would have been under the existing scheme. So in a budgetary sense there is very little change and no additional cost to the revenue for a few years to come. That is one aspect which I think ought to be borne in mind when the question is quite properly posed: Why are you bringing in a new scheme at a time of economic restraint? This scheme does not affect that economic restraint. On the other hand, there are potentially great administrative savings which I think should be welcomed by everybody. In time, those savings should be dramatic. That is just as well, because costs in this area and in many other areas of government administration are far too great for what is achieved. 
The Bill also provides wider powers of investment for the contribution funds. This should improve the yield significantly, though it is hardly likely to have the dramatic impact that seems to be foreseen by the  Australian Financial Review  in a recent article. I believe that the documents that have been put before us with the second reading speech are detailed and comprehensive. I congratulate the Minister on that presentation and on achieving the introduction of the long fought for scheme. I thank him for the kind remarks he made about me in his second reading speech. In summary I believe that the new scheme will be of great benefit to 
Commonwealth employees and to the country. Whilst there are features which will be criticisedI could perhaps and will join in that debate in the future- this scheme is a very fair and favourable one. Anybody who says the reverse has not analysed the details. 
Has the Treasurer had any inquiry conducted into the recent statements by the Opposition spokesman on economic matters that the Australian deficit is not excessive when compared with other comparable economies? Is it a fact that our Budget deficit will be about 6 per cent of the Australian gross domestic product this year? Is this of the same magnitude as the deficit in other comparable economies? 
-This is a continuation of the debate on the motion to set up a public expenditure committee. When the matter was debated last night the 2 speakers for the Labor Opposition indicated that the Opposition would not be voting for the motion. I must say at the outset that I think that is a great pity, for reasons that I will come to later. Because each  speaker  in this debate has only a short time, let me take up briefly some of the arguments that were put forward. The former  Speaker  of this House, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who I suppose put the official view of the Labor Party, indicated opposition to the motion for certain reasons. I believe it is unfortunate that the House of Representatives is to be divided right at the beginning of this matter, but of course that is the privilege of the Labor Opposition. It sounded to me as though the honourable member for Corio was making a case which indicated that he did not want to agree to it because it offended his view of the evolution of committees in this House, and of course he is a member of a committee examining the role of committees. 
From that point the honourable member went on to make criticisms, which I did not think were substantial reasons for opposing the motion. He spoke of the desirability of having the  Speaker,  rather than the parties, make appointments to the committee. Of course, that is established practice. Paragraph 2 of the resolution of appointment is consistent with previous resolutions establishing  House of Representatives committees in past parliaments. The Labor implemented environment committee is one. 
At one stage the honourable member said he thought the terms of reference could be better, indicating that he thought they were not too bad in the generality. But then when he went on to discuss how they might be bettered he did not seem to want to alter a great deal. He failed to acknowledge that there is some experimentation, some novelty in this proposal, and clearly some change may be necessary after a period of trial and error. The honourable member did say that he thought the terms were high-minded, and one can only agree with that. He made a considerable attempt to show that the proposal is wrong because a senator could serve on the committee. Of course, the whole purpose of the paragraph to which he was referring is to provide for the 

 Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee to be an ex-officio member- I understand at the suggestion of the  Chairman.  The provision goes on to state that there could be a nominee, and the inclusion of a nominee clearly is to take account of the case when the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee is a senator. This is intended to be a House committee and it must remain one. So I would say that the honourable member's arguments in opposition to the motion, and presumably they are the main arguments for the Opposition because he was the leading  speaker,  were relatively minor matters. The honourable member said a great deal about the need for qualified and adequate staff, and I am sure that every member of the House would agree with that. 
The overall evidence, and perhaps this meets the major point raised by the honourable member, given to the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System strongly supported the establishment of a public expenditure committee of the House of Representatives. While the matter can never be regarded as a settled one, surely it is worth a serious attempt by the Parliament to try to establish successfully such a committee. I believe that the time is overdue for us to try to obtain greater public control of funds, greater parliamentary control of funds, which after all are raised from people and are authorised for payment by this Parliament. The proposed committee could play a major role in that effort. Its terms are very similar to those of the House of Commons committee. The major objectives are set out in paragraph 1, which states: 
l ) That a Standing Committee be appointed to. 
a) consider any papers on public expenditure presented to this House and such of the estimates as it sees fit to examine; 
consider how, if at all, policies implied in the figures of expenditure and in the estimates may be carried out more economically; 
examine the relationship between the costs and benefits of implementing government programs; 
d ) inquire into and report on any question in connection with public expenditure which is referred to it by this House. 
Those are important objectives and I believe that they will commend themselves to most members of this House, perhaps to all members to some extent. I refer in passing to paragraphs 10 and 13 of the motion, which I think are of very great importance. It has been said that the committee, if set up, would greatly restrict other activity in the House. I find that hard to believe since there are 127 members here and not many of them are Ministers. It has been said that the Treasury might have some problems in arranging financial forecasts. Perhaps it will have trouble, but the committee could encourage it in that direction and provide help if it was needed. 
It has been said that the United Kingdom committee has not altogether succeeded, but that is not a reason why we should not seek greater success or at least achieve as much as that committee has achieved. I for one am not convinced that those arguments are strong enough to indicate that this House should not set up the committee and that it will not be reasonably effective. Australia, like Britain, needs a committee such as that set up by the House of Commons in order to provide a greater control over expenditure. An interesting debate took place in the House of Commons on 15 January 1974, and what emerged from that debate was a qualified approval for the activity up to that point. We have the advantage of being able to look at the progress of the United Kingdom Committee and its history in relation to its examination of the implementation of specific policies by governments in the House of Commons. Some of the House of Commons sub-committees have looked in a narrower way at specific policies but other committees have had a wider role in looking at government activity. I quote from a speech in that debate in which it was said:  ... the Committee would have a wider role than the old Estimates Committee - 
This is in the United Kingdom-  and would keep under examination the projections of public expenditure made available to the House. It would be free to consider the policy behind the figures, and therefore might wish to examine Ministers on them. 
That brings me to the vexed question of the examination of policy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that as far as this committee is concerned he does not believe that policy ought to be questioned. Frankly, I think it might be very hard on occasions to draw the line. At page 1498 of  Hansard  the Prime Minister said: 
The committee would not examine the Government's policies; it would rather be concerned to investigate economy and effectiveness . . .  (Quorum formed)  The calling of the quorum by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was a typical trick on his part. He knows perfectly well that many honourable members are outside the chamber talking with visitors to Canberra about educational matters. 
I quoted that passage in order to draw attention to the use of the word 'rather', which I think underlines the point I was making. I believe that the Australian approach to policy matters may result in difficulties in interpretation, but I do not believe that it will be beyond the wit of members of the proposed Committee to devise a sensible distinction. I believe that in the past there has been inadequate examination of public expenditure. This Parliament does have a number of avenues for such examination; but, as honourable members know, the Estimates debate in this place is by no means satisfactory as a vehicle for examining Estimates. The speeches in that debate tend to be mini second reading speeches. The Senate sets out to do a better job and does a better job, but the Senate committees that do this work do not sit all year round and their scope is limited. There is also the Public Accounts Committee which is important and which does a great deal, but obviously it cannot cover the whole field. It is appropriate for me, on behalf of many honourable members, to pay tribute to the work that Committee has done. 
Co-operation between the proposed Public Expenditure Committee and the Public Accounts Committee will be essential, but there is so much work for the Parliament to do that I believe that with intelligent and objective people involved there will be no difficulty in defining useful areas of responsibility for each committee. In addition, there is the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, but the scope is so wide that there will be more than enough work for each committee to be useful. The Prime Minister covered in his speech the major principles involved in setting up this Committee. I quote what he said, as reported at page 1497  of Hansard: 
The ultimate control of Parliament over the Executive is its control over, and scrutiny of, the expenditure of money. This is a fundamental principle of democracy which this Government recognises. 
He said more to support the basic need for such examination. I expect this motion to be carried and I hope that the Opposition will enter into the work of the Committee. I have every confidence that members of the Opposition will be elected to the Committee and will support the value of the Committee. I believe that one of the problems of all sophisticated economies in the world is that of getting value for money from expenditure and achieving the objective set out in the motion which refers to the examination of the relationship between the cost and the benefit of implementing government programs. I support the motion. I believe that the Committee will be extremely useful to the Australian people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I want to make a comment about the quorum which was called. I confess that I am rather surprised to find that some honourable members are leaving the chamber after having entered the chamber during the forming of a quorum. No honourable member can retire from the precincts of the chamber once the attention of the Chair has been drawn to the state of the House. I also ask honourable members to remember that if they move from one side of the chamber to the other during the forming of a quorum they make it extremely difficult for the Clerks who are endeavouring to ascertain the number of honourable members in the chamber. This, in turn, handicaps the honourable member who is speaking, because there is a larger encroachment on his time than is necessary. I also want to say that I have been rather surprised to find that some honourable members have not been observing some of the Standing Orders, particularly the standing order relating to honourable members crossing between the honourable member who is speaking and the Chair. Not only the newer members of this chamber are committing this offence; some of the older ones also are committing it. I suggest that all honourable members look at the Standing Orders and that they try to raise the decorum of this Parliament. 
My question is for the Treasurer. Since the Government proposes in its first Budget to make pensions paid to all persons below age pension age subject to taxation, why are not the greatly increased child endowment payments also subject to tax? 
-We have just listened to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the Labor Treasury spokesman, replying to the statement that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made last Thursday evening. He adopted throughout his rather lengthy speech a moderate tone. I think that calls all the more for an analysis of just what he has put to us as the official view of the Labor Party. He said, for instance- I can take up only some of his points as I have less time than he had-that unemployment was the main problem in the country to be faced by the Government. Of course it must be apparent to anybody listening to this debate that Labor's efforts created the highest unemployment in this country since the great depression of the 1930s. He said: 'It ought to be the principal objective of the Government to deal with this matter'. Later on in his speech he said that recovery recovery of the economy was the first step. Of course there we have common ground. But the dispute between our parties is as to how that should be approached. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  for his part has had a lot to say about economic recovery and how it should be achieved. 
The honourable member for Adelaide went on later to say quite clearly that he believes that the investment allowance ought to be abolished and the cost ought to be offset by a reduction in sales tax. Let us just pause there for a moment and ask ourselves: Which would have the greatest effect for the recovery of the Australian economy? Would it be an incentive for people to manufacture plant and machinery, providing employment in manufacturing and going right through the service industries, providing plant and equipment that can be used for productive purposes; or would it be the extra demand that we might expect from people presumably buying more goods after a drop in sales tax? I really do not think that any economist could come to the conclusion that such a reduction in sales tax would have anything like the recovery effect of the investment allowance, which is an encouragement by the Government amounting to near $500m. It is a progressive policy which I think will have a big effect in creating employment and in the future, enlarging the productive capacity of this country. But apparently the honourable member for Adelaide has stated the official Australian Labor Party policy, which is no investment allowance and reduction of sales tax by an equivalent amount. 
He spoke of budget deficits and said that they are not an evil in themselves. We know that in Australia we have an enormous deficit problem. When the Labor Government produced the Budget before last it budgeted for a deficit of, I think, $2,700m. At the time I and other honourable members in this House said that there was no way in the world that the previous Government could confine the deficit to that figure. Sure enough, the figure ended up very nearly double the estimate. In fact that indication in the original documents was grossly misleading. Of course no one is saying that a deficit is necessarily evil in every case. But the point is: the size of it and the attitude that should be taken to our whole economic policy in this country. If one says that the size of the deficit does not matter- there are honourable members in this place who say such things, some of them even on this side of the House- what one is saying is that one will leave most of the economic control to monetary policy, which of course is inadequate for the task. We saw what happened when Labor tried to draw in expansion by using only the money supply. One would also be saying that the size of the deficit, no matter what it is, is of no consequence. 
I remind the House that that view may be taken by some economists- I think Professor Wheelwright was mentioned- but it is not a view that is taken by any central banker or Treasury official of any of the countries in the Western World with comparable economies to whom I have spoken in the last few years; and that includes those from the United States of America, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Belgium. In other words, those who are in responsible positions recognise that such fiscal packages are necessary and they recognise that a deficit can be too big. Each of those countriesI would hope the only countries with economies with which we would care to compare our economy- has recently instituted a similar package to the sort of package we are debating today. They have similar objectives. Those countries are very conscious of the size of deficits and they are trying to rein in their expenditures. It is all very well to put up attractive theories which state that one can have it both ways, but if one is in a position of responsibility, and Treasurers and finance Ministers of those countries are in that position, of course one cannot just do things that merely read well. 
As far as I can see it the solution put forward by the Labor Party to meet our present predicament is to spend more. It is suggested that if money is spent in productive areas somehow it will cure our problems. I remind the House and the country that Labor tried all that in the last 3 years. It had its chance. If spending in productive areas is the major solution- that is mainly what was put to us today- what was the effect in these areas? Did we have a vast boom in the manufacturing sector, in the mining sector either, in development or exploration, or in the rural sector? Where was the boom in Australia? I shall tell honourable members. It was in land prices and in the growth of Public Service employment. All those other areas- manufacture, mining development and exploration and most rural industries- were in a position near disaster. This is a result, in the main of Labor policies, not entirely, but in the main. 
This fiscal package which is put forward as part of what is necessary for economic recovery in Australia is similar to packages recently put in the United States and in the United Kingdom. Of course there was a time when the Australian Labor Party used to like to refer to Britain and say when the British Labour Party had done something 'that it was a marvellous thing. Looking at the state of the United Kingdom economy at present-rit is under a British Labour Party- it is strange that we do not seem to hear that argument today. 
We were told tonight that we are working to an alien system and we had an outmoded way of looking at things by being concerned about the level of government expenditure and large deficits. We were clearly told, let the country notice this, that the Labor Party is totally opposed to that outlook. In other words, that means that it is in favour of a continuation of its earlier policies. The Labor Opposition believes that we should not worry about the size of the deficit and the level of expenditure, and of course because it follows, about the size of taxation levied in Australia, no matter what it does to personal initiative. 
The Government's present position is not unlike the position of a company which acquires an unprofitable company. What attitude does it take to that company? It says: 'This company we have acquired is in such a mess that we will try by a number of measures to get it on an even keel in the first year. If we are successful we will look for some sort of stability and profit in the second year, it will not be done quickly, in the last election campaign we said to the people of Australia: 'The position is bad. The economy's position is grave. It will take time and tough measures will be necessary. This Government has been prepared to stand up and to face the position and to take tough measures. The position will not be cured quickly. As yet the Government has not been in office for 6 months. This package is one step in getting this economy back on an even keel. What else would we really expect? What was promised to the electors of Australia if it was not an effort to rein in the earlier extravagance and to bring taxation to a lower level than anticipated. 
In the last Budget the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  sold the idea successfully that the previous Government was providing tax cuts. Of course we know perfectly well that no tax cuts whatsoever were provided. As a matter of fact, personal income tax was budgeted to rise by an additional $2,000m. In Australia in recent years we have had the highest sustained level of inflation in our history, a level which certainly was higher that that in our earlier years. After all, in the 1960s and earlier we had on an average an inflation rate of 2 Vi per cent over 1 5 years. That rate of 2  !/4  per cent was sustained under Liberal Party governments. But of course in the late 1960s and early 1970s we were aware of the world recession taking place and great oil price rises, and it was natural that Australia would have an increase in inflation because of the pressures. But Labor came along with a lot of bright new policies, some of which I might say would have been appropriate for the late 1960s but which were completely inappropriate in 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975. The result was that instead of having an inflation rate of the order of about 8 per centthat is all Australia ought ever to have had because the Australia economy was not much affected by oil price rises- we ended up in the dizzy heights which usually are associated only with banana republics. 
Let us compare our inflation rate today with those of other countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development with comparable economies. When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was Prime Minister he used to say that we are 'near the top' we are 'near the bottom of the OECD list' or something like that. But let us compare our position with those economies that are well managed and highly developed- with the exception of Great Britian, of course. We do not, with respect to them, want to be compared with what is happening in Iceland, Turkey and other such countries. I am talking about the well managed economies. We were fortunate to have a well managed economy until recent years . 

 Mr GARLAND If the honourable member for Prospect had listened carefully he would have known that I said 'sustained rate'. However, I do not want to be diverted. The position is that we had about double the rate that we ought to have had. 
Of course inflation is at the root of our problems. Of course inflation has made the employment situation worse- I think 'exacerbated' would be the word used by the Leader of the Opposition to describe the situation. Of course inflation has made the interest rates rise. We have had record interest rates. The Australian Labor Party had its chance in this area and it did not take advantage of it. It is not that it did not receive warnings. I take the liberty of quoting from a speech that I made in this House in 1971 after listening to speeches from the Labor Party's ranks. Speaking of the then and present Leader of the Opposition, I said: 
It is easy to promise and while he speaks with such indignation of the last Budget and of inflation, his own speech on that Budget and the 2 policy speeches he has made in the last 18 months are a catalogue of vast additional expenditure that he would make. It is a formidable increase which, if implemented, would result in catastrophic inflation. 
Perhaps I can be immodest enough to claim that that was prophetic. In endeavouring to criticise the package put forward by the Government the members of the Opposition are engaged in this debate in harping on emotional issues. They are going to say- it has just been said- that they accept from the package the benefits that are being given to the people, but they are going to hammer away at the areas which are to somebody's disadvantage. They will criticise anything that will result in the weight of an additional burden. That, of course, is common in such debates. The shifting of the burden of discontent always results in less gratitude on one side as against the antagonism on the other. 
The Government has developed a package which will result in the introduction of indexation, which is necessary to prevent people's tax rates from rising with inflation. It is determined to cut government expenditure. It is determined to put some limit on the blank cheque that has been signed in relation to Medibank because it knows perfectly that if the expenditure on Medibank is allowed to grow at its present rate it will grow so fast that the money needed for it can come only from future education and welfare. The Government is also providing an increase- a large increase- in child endowment, which will be paid to the mothers of children in areas in which there is real need and in which the private welfare agencies have said that such payment is so necessary. I am delighted to support this Government and its package. I am delighted that we have a government that is determined to tackle firmly Australia's major problems. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Did the Minister for Foreign Affairs see recent reports that all foreign news agencies in Saigon, including Australian Associated Press, Reuters, United Press International,  Time  and  Newsweek,  have been ordered to close down from 7 May? Has he confirmation of or information about this? If it is true, does such total censorship give the Government concern for the lives of Vietnamese, bearing in mind reports of atrocities in Cambodia? 
-by leave-On 29 April 1976 the House saw fit to set up the Standing Committee on Expenditure. This interim report is to inform honourable members of the work of the Committee to date and the present position. 
The establishment of the Committee is a recognition that the House was in danger of losing, through a process of default, its role of adequately scrutinising the purposes for which moneys are authorised by the House. This trend is notable in parliaments around the World. The primary work of the Committee in its early days, therefore, has been concerned with the establishment of procedures that would lead to the maximum effectiveness of the scrutinising work the Committee undertakes. In other words, the Committee was most concerned that it should establish sound working methods with a view to long term effectiveness. 
In May and June 1976 the Committee held 5 in-camera hearings; with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, the Secretaries of the 
Treasury and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Auditor-General and the  Chairman  of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. These hearings proved useful in examining: Firstly, the practical effect of the Committee's broad terms of reference; secondly, the various methods of proceeding and thirdly, discussing methods of choosing areas of inquiry. The Committee concluded that the general consensus was that 'value for money' considerations, including program effectiveness, should be the prime concern of the Committee. 
In its May 1976 meetings the Committee agreed to seek comment from as wide a group as possible on the role and functions. Apart from parliamentary and government spheres, it has sought submissions from universities, colleges of advanced education and firms of management consultants and chartered accountants. A register of expert witnesses has been compiled from the replies received, which the Committee will use for its inquiries. The Committee has studied some of the work of the House of Commons Expenditure Committee of the United Kingdom. The terms of reference of our Committee draw heavily on those of the United Kingdom committee. I have written to the  Chairman  of that committee and an information link should be useful. 
From all this and other work, which has included discussions with a number of persons of expert knowledge, the Committee has concluded that its role of scrutiny will lead it into 3 areas at present. The first is the managerial aspect of Parliamentary scrutiny which is a program by program examination and includes value for money considerations. There will be inquiries into particular government programs administered by public servants and other government employees, probably several at the one time conducted by two or three sub-committees. The subcommittees to be set up will not be, however, functional groupings as in the House of Commons. 
The second area is that of broad based inquiries on or related to public expenditure. Such inquiries could, for example, deal with the need for the House to have public expenditure plans with wider time frames than at present because, after all, if parliaments are to be able to understand and influence the pattern of future public spending they need an opportunity to consider expenditure plans either while options remain open or before expenditure is too firmly committed. It is noted that the General Subcommittee of the House of Commons Expenditure Committee undertakes such inquiries. Further, it is perhaps a function which distinguishes an expenditure committee from an Estimates or public accounts committee. Such inquiries will probably be conducted by the Committee as a whole. 
The third area deals with relatively minor inquiries; in many cases the minutiae of expenditure scrutiny. The Committee has set up a standing sub-committee consisting of myself, the Honourable F. Stewart, the Honourable W. Fife,  Dr Jenkins  and  Mr Lusher  and has already invited the public to make suggestions as to improvements in government efficiency. Where confidentiality is requested it will be strictly observed. This sub-committee is proceeding to examine the more worth while of such suggestions. Valuable information so received is being put to permanent heads of departments and authorities for reports. Where it is believed that correcting action should be taken it will be requested for quick resolution, or a full inquiry commenced. 
To give effect to the first Committee function, namely program by program examination, the Committee commenced examining about a dozen areas for further inquiry on 6 and 7 July 1976. It sought further information on 2 programs. One is operated by the Department of Defence. The other involves that Department and the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Health, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Overseas Trade. If subsequent analysis shows a  prima facie  case for inquiry in either of these areas the Committee will proceed to public hearings. Some of the other areas are still under examination. 
In selecting further cases for preliminary examination the Committee will, of course, draw on the Budget Estimates for 1976-77 which were presented to the House last week. The Committee is most interested in giving consideration to the executive inquiries into various aspects of efficiency, published information on the work of the Bland Committee and the recent report of the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration. 
The Committee has also made a start on the broad based inquiries. The whole of the Public Service Board appeared before the Committee on 2 and 3 August 1976 for discussions lasting 7 hours. Apart from continuing this inquiry, consideration is being given to more of this type of inquiry with other departments. Such inquiries are of the reconnaissance type and reports to the House may or may not result. They could, however, lead to further detailed examination and report. 
Honourable members will see that this early development shows the Committee will have a different role to that of the Public Accounts Committee. At present and to give effect to clause 16 of the resolution of appointment the Committee liaises closely with the latter committee. The  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee is a member of the Committee and likewise the  Chairman  of the Committee is a member of the PAC. As it happens 2 other members are members of both Committees. There is so much government activity available for examination that all parliamentary committees should have no difficulty in avoiding duplication. 
I am very pleased to inform the House that all members of the Committee are working together in a spirit of bipartisan co-operation. There is a determination to improve parliamentary scrutiny of public expenditure. Our concern lies mainly with administrative efficiency and we will be seeking to achieve a full appreciation of the institutional framework in which public servants operate. Some value judgments will have to be made. Thus our approach and our dealings with the Public Service will be reasonable- firm but fair. 
The Committee will proceed in a calm and persistent manner to examine the matters or issues that come before it. It will of course be looking for cost savings. This will interest most honourable members because such savings can release resources for better uses. This in turn will benefit the community at large, whom we have been elected to serve. 
-We have just listened to the first major policy speech in the House by the Labor Leader who led his Party to the greatest ever electoral disaster. After all that has happened tonight's speech shows how little he has learned. Labor would do exactly the same again if elected to power. Tonight's speech was very largely the same speech we heard in this House in 1970, in 1971 and in 1972. What was . the result of Labor's 3 years in office? Did it help  the weak? Did it increase employment? Did it build a stronger economy? Did it expand manufacturing industry, exports, mining or oil exploration? Did it help rural industry? What tears were shed tonight on behalf of the rural producers. The truth is that Labor has left Australia's worst legacy of economic ills either negligently or deliberately, and its leader has made clear tonight it would do it again. 
I just remind the House of a few statistics which are pertinent. Labor began its term in office with unemployment at 136 000 and ended with 328 000 unemployed. It began with an inflation rate of 4.5 per cent and ended with 14 per cent. That is the greatest rise since the Great Depression. Then we come to interest rates. As to the 10-year bond rate- these figures are from the Reserve Bank of Australia- Labor began with 5.8 per cent and ended with 10 per cent- a world record; the worst ever. Under Labor it has been made clear that spending would all go up again. It has been the same speech, calling for massive increases in expenditure. We have seen in the past the results of all that. Labor had its chance. What it needs are new policies and not old stale policies that cause distress and hardship to Australians. Australians are entitled to security. 
The movement of this amendment by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has become traditional. But this talks about pursuing a policy of unemployment. Who created the unemployment to which I have just referred? The amendment talks about abdicating Federal Government responsibility as though all government activity should be initiated here and none in the States. It talks about failing to institute selective, stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment- in other words, more gimmicks. Was it not the Labor Party shadow Treasurer who suggested in this House on 25 May that Labor would drop the investment allowance? There was no suggestion of that tonight, however. How about that for instituting collective stimulatory expenditure! What about the suggestion that the Government should drop sales tax by $500m? Did Labor do that when it was in office? Not a bit of it. The truth is that unemployment can be cured only by increasing the productive capacity of the country. The Leader of the Opposition assumes- and I believe this to be an important point- that increasing expenditure will increase employment, but may I remind him that in the Budget of last year expenditure was budgeted to rise 23 per cent and unemployment rose during that period. The truth is that the Government seeks to create more employment through expanding investment in the private sector of the community. It is quite wrong- and I believe the Leader of the Opposition knows it is wrong- to say that increasing unemployment is a deliberate policy of the Government or indeed that people on this side of the House are referring to all the unemployed as 'dole bludgers'. I believe the truth is that Labor is basing its hopes on increased unemployment. Labor supporters want to see it because they believe that will give them an argument, an argument which at present they do not have because they are saddled with having caused this tremendous rise in unemployment, during their period in office, from 136 000 to 328 000. The Labor Leader said nothing tonight, I believe, in his lengthy address - 
Well, generally too, I take the point of the honourable member, but I am speaking specifically about the deficit which the Government has repeatedly suggested is most important to our economic health and, of course, has sought to cut. What would be the result of Labor's suggestion, of course, would be an enormous growth in the size of the deficit. It seems to me that the Leader of the Opposition has joined that school of economists- and there are somewho are suggesting that it does not matter how big that deficit is. May I remind the House that those members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development- the United States, Germany and Japan- which have largely cured their inflation or at any rate greatly reduced their rate of inflation have been pursuing the same policies that we are pursuing in this country, and indeed because they started the restraints some time ago, they have achieved low inflation rates already. But Labor is showing tonight that it is still spendthrift, wasteful, and reckless about spending, either because it cares nothing for or because it does not understand the effect that inflation has on the man in the street. It does not understand the need for a strong industry which in this country still provides employment for three-quarters of the Australian work force. A higher deficit would destroy all that. Furthermore, a high deficit means that the Government needs to raise more money. In doing that, of course, it is competing for funds and thus keeping up interest rates. 
I said earlier that Labor's record in relation to interest rates was extremely dismal. There was a rise in the long term bond rate from 5.8 per cent to 10 per cent in only 3 years. Of course, a large deficit leads to high interest rates; a low deficit, such as that for which the Government has budgeted, is a strong influence in achieving lower interest rates. Is that not important? Is not a lower interest rate a desirable thing, because it enables more consumer credit, it allows more people to buy their own home and, of course, it allows the private sector to invest more funds and to create more jobs? The report of the Reserve Bank of Australia, which came out last week, has done no good at all to the case of the Leader of the Opposition. Indeed, he has been severely hampered by the comments made by the Reserve Bank Board. May I remind honourable members that one of the members of that Board is a  Mr Hawke,  who, I understand, has some relationship with the Labor Party. He presumably endorses these remarks; he is a member of the Reserve Bank Board. Page 17 of the report states that the last quarter of 1975-76 saw a new firmness in the Government's financial actions; the Board supports government restraint and absorption of excess liquidity. Page 37 of the report refers to a need for restraint. That is a pretty damning indictment of the approach of the former Government. Indeed, the Board rejects the notion that the Government could spend its way out of a recession with a larger deficit, which is the point I was just making, and points out the dangers to the exchange rate inherent in continued escalation of wages in line with prices. 
An examination of the Labor Party's record during its period in government reveals a long catalogue of economic difficulties, not to say disasters. I remind honourable members of the unprecedented transfer of resources from the private to the public sector and of the economic blunders of the 1973-74 Budget. At a time when dampeners should have been applied a huge spending program was introduced and an inflationary Budget was brought down. The pledge given in September 1973 in relation to interest rates was abandoned and a tremendous credit squeeze was put on the country. Honourable members will remember that a referendum was held on a wage-price freeze at the end of 1973. Fortunately it was defeated. It was just an economic gimmick. I remind honourable members of those extravagent outlays which we all came to recognise as a hallmark of Labor administration. As I have mentioned, there was unparalleled unemployment since the Great Depression. That was the fact of Labor Government. 
The Leader of the Opposition spoke of an increase in income tax. An analysis of that makes the position clear. An examination of Statement No. 4 reveals that the increase in personal income tax is comprised practically wholly of these 3 items: A rise in the work force of  VA.  per cent; higher incomes of 12 per cent provided by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commissionthe honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is interjecting encouraged the Arbitration Commission on, a number of notable occasions to grant larger increases- and, of course, as is well known, a dramatic increase this year in child endowment rates in response to those many private welfare agencies which have been advocating that as the greatest area of need. Of course, the rebate for children is no longer taken into account as a deduction for taxation purposes, which has resulted in a swap around, if you like, of $700m. It is quite wrong to suggest that the rate of personal income tax has increased. Indeed, the Government has instituted tax indexation for the first time in our history; it has held the line against increases in income tax, because everybody knows that under the Labor Government income tax rates increased enormously as it allowed the inflation rate to take taxpayers into higher and higher income tax brackets. The Leader of the Opposition had little to say about indirect taxes. After all, it was his Government which increased indirect taxes enormously. This is the first Budget for many years which does not include increases in indirect taxes. 
The Leader of the Opposition has suggested that the Budget is uncaring and that it hurts the weak. He used that sort of argument. What did the Labor Government do about implementing the recommendations of the Henderson Report? 
-What the honourable gentleman says is quite right- nothing whatever. This Government, after being in office only a few months, has taken up one of the major recommendations of the Henderson report, namely that in relation to child endowment and the rental voucher system. It has really shown an interest in endeavouring to improve the lot of those who are genuinely disadvantaged. But the result of the Labor Parry's policies, whatever the motive, was to reduce greatly the value of people's earnings and savings, and that affected the whole community. It particularly affected the poor and those less able to force an increase in earnings, as can some of the militant trade union leaders. I say to the Opposition that the sort of eloquence that was put to us in past years by the Labor Party just cannot be accepted any more because of the results. The Labor Party's efforts in endeavouring to raise expectations above the capacity to fulfil them has been exposed as false, because it distorted so much the position in relation to resources and caused hardship for many Australians. Indeed, I think that the whole approach this evening of the Leader of the Opposition was displayed by his demeanour and by the reaction of his own supporters, many of whom were absent from the chamber, asleep or talking among themselves. I was fascinated(Quorum  formed)  The honourable member for Port Adelaide only flatters me by interrupting my remarks by using the technicality of calling for a quorum. I was saying that we see in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition a desire to continue his extravagances of the past. The Government in its Budget has directed itself to the major issues facing the country today. I think it is notable that it has not resorted to the use of any gimmicks; there is no suggestion of wageprice freezes, Prices Justification Tribunals, social contracts, massive rent subsidies, food subsidies or industry subsidies, which have been tried in other countries and have failed. The Budget attacks the basic problem, namely inflation. Indeed, I question whether we should not come to a consideration of full abolition of the Prices Justification Tribunal, with its distortions and the massive paper work it requires from people. The unions have no confidence in it and I believe that they support it only for political purposes. It is clear from looking at the recent economic history of the OECD countries that they did not ever get to grips with anti-inflationary policies until they got their budgets and the monetary aspects of their economies under control. Once they did that, they made some impression on inflation. The Labor Party never had those things under control. In a short 8 months this Government is well on the way towards doing so. 
The Leader of the Opposition showed again his lack of understanding of the policy of federalism. He made a number of mis-statements about it, which unfortunately I do not have time to take up. I point out that the States generally are getting an additional 24 per cent- a greater growth than the Commonwealth is giving to itself in its own Budget. Of course there will be mixed reactions to handouts to the States; there always have been. The Labor Prime Minister's handouts were not greeted with cheers by all the States; nor would any Prime Minister's be. The States have their own interests. Of course, the federalism policy is to maximise the States' ability to carry out their own responsibilities and to share in the responsibility of accounting for the moneys involved. The States, like other sectors in the community, must share in the restraint necessary following 3 years of Labor high living. 
The Budget has a number of notable points. Everybody has his own ideas about how the Budget ought to be improved in one way or another, but I believe that people in general know that what was in this Budget was necessary. Indeed, it was what the Fraser Government was elected to do. Let us consider how far reaching the Budget is. The tax indexation system, the lowering of the deficit, the holding of the public expenditure increase to the inflation rate in the interests of getting inflation down, the federalism aspects, the mining and other industry incentives for exploration and development which are to be renewed and which had been stopped, and the lack of increase in direct taxes- all these things will be of great benefit to this country. The Prime Minister stated this succinctly in an interview published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in which he said: 'For those who really want recovery it is virtually the only kind of Budget that is possible'. The Premier of New South Wales has seen the need to support it and he has proposed to do so. There are the beginnings of signs- stronger consumer preference, housing approvals up, stock inventories down, private investment up and indications of the savings ratio dropping- that the economy is on the way to recovery. 
My question is to the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister say whether the Government's secret postal ballot legislation for trade union elections, proclaimed in August, has gained acceptance by the trade union movement as a whole or by sections of it? Can he advise how the implementation of the new procedures has been carried out? 
I want to commence by gently chiding the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  for one or two of the remarks that he made. 
I will be gentle. If, as the honourable member said, it was the case during the term of office of the Labor Government that statistics were not put in the hands of Ministers, and the Treasurer in particular, of course the responsibility falls foursquare on the Treasurer himself to insist on receiving that information. There is not any doubt about that; that is where the responsibility lies. So it is really quite unnecessary to endeavour to make a case that it is the fault of Treasury or of the Bureau of Statistics or any other body. Personally I doubt that the honourable member has the knowledge he claims to have about what Treasurers have asked for and what they insist upon. However, I do think it is wrong to make some sort of an attack on these sections of the Government bureaucracy in the way in which he has. 
The honourable member also went to some lengths to tell us of the great need for planning in this country. I must say that I would not disagree with his view that forward estimates should be compiled by Treasury. The honourable member mentioned a period of 3 years in relation to those forward estimates. He went much further than that, of course, and put great emphasis on the need for economic planning, and that is a view which I read was recently put by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Indeed, recently he went on to suggest- one might see a reason for this suggestionthat there should be 2 Treasurers. That was published in the  Australian  newspaper, and I shall give honourable members opposite the reference later if they do not agree with what I am saying. The point I want to make is that it seems to be in the minds of a number of people in our community that somehow or other you can set down a rigorous economic plan for a number of years, that everything will happen, that everybody will know where they are, and that there will not be - 
-Like the Soviet 5-year plan, I am reminded, but, of course, that is an endeavour by a government to control an economy rigidly from the centre. It seems to rest oh a number of assumptions. I suggest to the honourable member that one of the major assumptions is this: All the extraordinary events happened in the past; nothing unforeseeable is going to happen; nothing will come along which needs what he referred to as stop-go policies. Of course, every government has indulged in stop-go policies for a very simple reason: The economy and the influences on it are extremely complex. As was once said by a British Prime Minister, it is necessary to stop-go when you are driving in busy traffic. So really I do wish we would remember the complexities involved and not try to think that somehow an economic order can be assauged which will overcome all our problems, tell everyone where he is going, and take all the judgments out of the situation. 
You can give it various labels like 'indicative planning* and it all sounds great as long as you do not get into too much detail. 
In debating the Treasury estimates I want to say a little about one or two things that seem to me to be of importance in the general economic situation in which Australia finds itself. I ask myself, what is the major problem this country faces in achieving a strength and a growth of the Australian economy? I take it for granted that we all want to see it strengthened. I take it that we regard it as a desirable objective because it is the only means by which the Australian people can increase their purchasing power, their standard of living. It is the only way by which we can really achieve an improvement in the environmentnot only a protection but a restoration. It is the only way in which we can make significant payments for foreign aid, for assistance to Aborigines and a number of other groups in the community. We find, of course, that at this point, as far as production is concerned, Australia is at a disadvantage compared with other countries. We are at the stage where, for instance, average weekly earnings in Australia are no less than $30 per week greater than average weekly earnings in the United States. 
It is unbelievable, yet that is the state which we are in at present. There are a great number of production problems. That means it is going to be increasingly desirable for us to import manufactured goods and other goods from overseas. It is going to be increasingly difficult for us to sell overseas and, in a word, this relates to productivity which I know is regarded by many people as an esoteric term, and it is all a rather boring subject. The productivity, the cost per unit of what we makethe cost of our services- is really our central problem. Australians are just not working hard enough or efficiently enough. That is harming their own interests. As I have said, our imports more and more are going to be attractive because of that price differential. 
There are in our community, quite rightly, pressures to reduce tariffs and yet with relative inefficiency it is going to be more and more necessary to provide protection if we are to keep a significant number of our population employed. It is no wonder that in the shipbuilding industry and other industries we have such structural and fundamental problems. Of course it will go on in the whole area of manufactured goods. 
Clearly and obviously we have enormous national assets and advantages, so how is it that we are in this difficult situation? 
Certainly, there was much will to work in this country in the past and I think there still is in important areas. As far as I can see in many trade union areas- certainly not all of them- there is no desire to improve our productivity or our efficiency. I do not want to criticise the unions unreasonably. I do think many, not all, trade union leaders are clearly acting against the interests of their own members, and certainly against the interests of Australia. Many Australians are so keen to find an easy life that they are doing less than they could easily do. When one looks at the number of useless stoppages and slow-downs, at demands for more leisure time, whether it be shorter working weeks or more holidays, it amounts in many cases to less efficiency although it is often claimed that it will lead to more efficiency. What it does basically is to add to the costs of ordinary goods to Australians. I think that is our central economic problem. The others can be solved relatively simply. We have many social problems that must be tackled, but those social problems are made harder if we have high inflation, high unemployment, high interest rates and other evils in our economy. Indeed, high unemployment in Australia I believe is very largely the result of the high inflation which we have at present. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said on one important occasion to some people 'your wage rise is another man's job'. It is not a universal assertion but it was right in the context in which he used it and it is largely right today. 
It is hard in a 10 minute speech to more than outline and state the obvious but I do hope that thinking people will more and more influence others to face up to this central problem and endeavour to encourage productivity. In many cases Australians could increase work effectiveness by 10 per cent without significant increase in their effort or to their inconvenience. In fact, the Government has little power in this area, nor does anyone else. My attempt today is to draw attention to what I believe is the central problem and I hope many other members of the community will see it more and endeavour to improve the situation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Prime Minister will be aware of the great concern in the community about the Industries Assistance Commission's draft recommendation for the phasing out of Government support for important areas of the arts. Will the Prime Minister explain his Government 's policy and its application in respect of the arts and such matters? 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to Press reports suggesting that the Government should hold a referendum on price and wage controls? Has he received any advice on this matter from the Board of the Reserve Bank or any of its members? 
-The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  made some rather uncharitable remarks about my colleague, the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury).  They were, of course, unjustified. I just make the observation that one can understand the honourable member for Burke's nervousness in view of the coming event on Sunday. Nevertheless I am sure that we all wish him well. 
I take the opportunity to make a few comments on disputes within the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the role of the ABC and the community. I hope that it is realised fairly widely that the battle that is going on from the community's point of view comes down to the question of who is to manage the ABC. Is it to be the Commissioners or separate groups on the staff? The argument is not about  Alvin Purple.  I do not express a view about that program; unfortunately I have not been able to see an episode of it. The argument is in part about the right of management to see scripts being prepared for programs by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and to see program material being prepared. Of course the management has the right to see that material in advance. 
The institution of the ABC is important to the Australian community. It provides great services at a cost to the taxpayer. It provides much information and entertainment for many Australians and I believe it has many dedicated staff members. I believe that most of the management are men who are strong, dedicated and able. The people want the ABC to have a strong role in the community and many people watch its programs. My family and many of my friends watch ABC television more than the other television channels. 
Clearly it has many objective staff members who take great pride in the conduct of programs which are fair, balanced and of high quality. But equally many people are dissatisfied, and I believe increasingly dissatisfied with the conduct of some of the staff. I have heard increasing criticism of the ABC by honourable members in private conversation, honourable members in all parties in this House. Certainly members of the Parliament publicly criticise the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the members of its staff and its programs from time to time. Why not? The ABC and its program staff and guests do not hesitate to criticise members of Parliament, as is their right. It is part of the democratic process. But the ABC and members, because of their privileged position, because of the captive and large audience, have a responsibility to see that criticisms are well based and not idle or mischievous. 
It has been asserted quite recently by some of the staff, certainly not all, that sections of the ABC can do and say what they believe is best. What on earth is the Commission for if it has no control and say in such matters? What is the system? There are 9 persons on the Commission and they are appointed by the government of the day, as is the case with the British Broadcasting Corporation in the United Kingdom. At present there is one vacancy. There are 8 commissioners, two of them appointed by the present Government and six appointed by the previous Labor Party Government. Informed people do not doubt their independence and the independence of the ABC. 
It is quite wrong to state, as has been stated recently, that  Sir Henry  Bland is some sort of Liberal representative, just as it was wrong to suggest that the late Professor Downing was a Labor representative. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the late Professor Downing as  Chairman  of the ABC. This does not mean that no criticism ought to be made of the ABC and its decisions. How artificial and unreal that would be. But there is no interference by governments or oppositions in our system. The ABC has a high tradition of independence. The community wants that and the Parliament wants it. 
I return to my earlier point. I think the belief is growing that the ABC is not using its resources and its privileges in an entirely fair way. I believe many people are dissatisfied with it. One hears this in conversation with honourable members of all political parties here and whenever the subject arises elsewhere in the community wherever one goes and the subject arises. It is my view that the reputation of the public affairs programs in articular has gone down very greatly in the last years. I believe, to use the jargon, that the credibility of the ABC has been significantly diminished in consequence. Threats by staff organisations of blackouts of programs should not deter anybody and I do not think they do. Furthermore, they damage the reputation of the ABC because they break down the appearance of objectivity and impartiality. 
There is a need for overall administration of the ABC. It is inconceivable and unacceptable that the Commissioners cannot control programs or programming. Such management is not censorship but a choice from many competing programs, the best use of resources and quality and impartiality control. That indeed is the Commission's responsibility and that partly is why it exists. I think it is hard for many people to see the actions and statements by staff that we have read of recently as being compatible with the ABC's responsibility to the Australian people or compatible with conduct consistent with engagement in employment in a high calling. My belief is that much of the audience of the ABC consists of people with higher education. I further believe that those people are able to discount views expressed in public affairs programs but it is hardly in the interests of Australia or the ABC for it to lose the confidence of that audience. In conclusion I say that Australians should be behind the Commissioners and the present  Chairman  in regard to the present disputes. Indeed, support of the Commission by the Australian people is their way of exercising their influence and ensuring that the ABC reflects their wants, including impartiality. They should not allow groups to push their own barrows and, uncontrolled, to do what they alone think is right and in accordance with their own political views. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the close and cordial relationship which has existed between this Government and the Ford Administration, will the Minister affirm the importance which the Government attaches to the development of co-operation and consultation with  Mr Carter  and the new American Administration? Does the Minister see any major changes taking place in the foreign policy emphasis of the United States of America which would have a direct bearing on Australia? 
-The publication 2 weeks ago of the Australian Defence White Paper gives rise to this debate on Australia's defence capacity, which provides a few minutes for each member to give brief views on defence preparedness and expenditure. Going back to first principles we might well ask the question: Why have defence? I pose this question because of the arguments that one hears frequently in Australia and in this chamber. Obviously, Australia sees defence as a form of insurance against threats or situations leading to threats when our diplomatic effort, as we understand it, breaks down. There are, of course, many types of threat to Australia's interest. There is always the possibility of great violence to our country, havoc, isolation by physical means or invasion. However, we must not always envisage defence in situations of the last resort. There are also lesser threats. I refer to threats of violence, disputes on boundaries, disputes on boundaries of the seabed, use of narrow waters or dangerous confidential situations leading to threats. On a lesser scale there are situations or threats leading to threats to sovereignty short of violence, infringement of territorial waters, of future maritime economic interests, such as fishing, mining, espionage activities, infringement of our coastline by smugglers, illegal immigrants and so on. Of course, activities under that last category are going on now but in any case it is necessary for Australia to have a capacity to deal in some measure with all 3 of those types of threats or situations leading to threats. The category of total violence, is, of course, the hardest of all against which to prepare. Nevertheless, it presents to Australia the greatest danger and it cannot be ignored. 
No one can easily foresee what threats or nature of threats might be made in future but history has shown that unpreparedness leads to disaster. The future, is, of course, unknown but the testing of motives of other countries is part of our diplomatic effort and our defence effort. We try to discover what are the motives of our neighbours and of countries that might affect our interests. We try to discover whether their motives are pure and friendly or whether, perhaps, their governments are looking for opportunities to breach our sovereignty if they had the opportunity or whether they are prepared to take us on anyway. We will never get the full answer to that question so it is absurd not to have a substantial defence preparedness. 
There are many people, it seems, in this country and in countries of our allies who want to believe that there is really no possibility or probability of a threat to this country or to their countries. But they avoid arguing what the position would be if their estimate were wrong, if indeed a situation developed leading to a threat. Obviously, defence preparedness strengthens the hands of our diplomats in bargaining and dealing. Significant defence forces in the modern world is important to their stature and as a backing to their diplomacy. We certainly live in a dangerous and rapidly changing world. We live in a world where technology is such that it can take 10 years from the time it is decided to build a ship to the time it can fire its guns in anger. It takes 7 years for an aircraft and 10 years, I believe, to train an officer. These lead times demand that we prepare for situations which, in a basic way, we cannot foresee. The cost proposed by the Government is $12 billion over the next five years. It leads us inevitably to problems of financing. We often hear arguments raised in this House about the number of schools and hospitals that could be built if expenditure on defence were not undertaken. The logic of that argument is that we should have no defence or a negligible defence and it really only has to be stated for its absurdity to be seen. 
The amount of expenditure allocated to defence depends to a great degree on evaluations by the defence group and then the Government of the most likely situations and threats to Australia. Honourable members are, of course, aware of a number of the defence needs. Many arguments have been made and papers have been written in respect of this subject. I do not propose to get into that argument. I am not expert enough to do so and I dare to suggest that no honourable member is. So what is the Parliament's role? I believe that it is our duty to keep ourselves acquainted with the arguments from both sides on what capacity we have, what we may need and what we could gain. It is certainly necessary for us to review continuously whether judgments that have been made are the correct ones and the ones on which we should rely. We must also see that we get the best value for the money that Parliament votes. We must see that the defence force is as effective as possible, and I interpose that Parliament has not, in my view, succeeded in those objectives so far. It is also necessary for us to encourage the defence forces and to contribute as much as we can to raising their morale. 
I cannot help the honourable member's lack of interest in and antagonism to this matter. I propose to complete my speech without his help. Parliament can review but it cannot in fact decide on desirable equipment purchases and the size of forces. Decisions on these matters must be the result of examination and feasibility studies by those who are expert in the field. But, as I have said, Parliament has an overall appraisal role. 
It was notable that the Opposition spokesman on defence, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  when making a few comments when the White Paper was presented, suggested that his main interest was the cost of defence. Although he did not emphasise any antagonism to the report, one was left with the feeling that he was pretty half hearted about it. The conclusion is inevitable- the Australian Labor Party does not want all of this money spent; it wants a good deal less spent and it is not prepared to build up the defence forces to a higher level. 
I am prepared to say that the honourable member is an exception. But I am giving my judgment on Labor's attitude. Money is not spent on defence for pleasure; it is spent because defence is essential. So we must face the question of whether the expenditure is too great or too small. Too small an expenditure on defence is irresponsible to the people of Australia; too much can greatly weaken Australia's economy and the logistic support of the defence forces themselves, particularly if those forces are engaged for a protracted period. What is the right balance is a question that Parliament has to consider. The Government has made its judgment on this matter. In my judgment an expenditure of $12 billion over the next S years is a bare minimum. I believe that when we read the lists of equipment that is necessary for replacement and extension we should provide, and I hope we do provide more. I say that the economy can afford more, particularly in the third, fourth and fifth years of the program. 
The equipment necessary is vastly different in every way to the sort of military equipment in use in World War II and in the 1950s and 1960s. I believe that few people understand what this rapid increase in technology means in strategic and tactical terms. But certainly it is our duty to try to understand some of it. The implications are unclear, even to experts in this country. But we know that the cost is great, although apparently there are some worthwhile weapons to be obtained for which the cost is not tremendous. 
It is the fashion to deride defence preparedness, and to exaggerate likely threats to this country. But there have been many wars and we have yet to see enough time go by to convince us that there will not be more. I believe that there needs to be a long peaceful period to convince us that our responsibility would be to reduce defence expenditure. We have heard a certain amount of talk recently in the House about  detente.  But I ask the House what are the realised advantages from the policy of  detente  and the agreement in Helsinki to Australia and the Western world? What has happened as a result of that diplomatic effort is a weakening of will in the countries of our allies and ourselves to keep and renew a defence capacity. Many knowledgeable and experienced people whom I know in the U.S.A., Europe and Australia are sad and, in some cases, outraged, at views expressed which they believe exaggerate the threats to our country and to the Western world. But there does arise the danger that by meeting that exaggeration they contribute towards a feeling by the people of these countries that we can lower our guard and spend less than we need to and that we can be less prepared than we need to be. If a significant attack did come to Australia- for our children and their children may that never be- the cost to humanity and the cost to nationhood would be far far greater than any economic sacrifices we could make in the years to some. The defenceless have so far in history suffered the most. 
I am very glad to have the opportunity to support this motion for the consolidation or rationalisation, as it has been known, of 2 segments of the defence aircraft industry in the metropolitan area of Sydney. This consolidation has been foreshadowed for many years. As a former Minister with an interest in this area, I know that this was an important part of the proposed rationalisation and increased workload schemes being considered in 1971 and 1972. The rationalisation proposals go back a good deal earlier. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who has just spoken, has for some years displayed a considerable interest in this area. I make bold to suggest that he has displayed an interest in defence, and aircraft in particular, quite apart from the needs of his constituents. Unfortunately, this rationalisation has been delayed far too long. It is many years overdue. 
I must say that I believe a former Minister for Defence, the Honourable Lance Barnard, did all that he could in 1973 to hasten the rationalisation. Unfortunately, he was stopped in the Australian Labor Party Cabinet of that day. I do not say that the matter was treated by former Liberal-Country Party Governments with the high degree of urgency due to it. While welcoming the proposal and supporting all the reasons given by the Minister for Construction and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  who moved the motion, I draw attention to these delays which have taken place and what I believe is the unfortunate downgrading in priority over many years of the defence aircraft industry. No doubt, if this country is ever in a position of requiring defence and military aircraft production capacity, there will be great complaints about this Government not spending the time and proceeding with such matters urgently. But the truth is, that in general the public is not very interested in this area either. As has been said in the report which came from the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works, there is a need for some defence aircraft capacity in the metropolitan area of Sydney. It will certainly be much more efficient and, one hopes in the long term, cost saving to move machine tools from Lidcombe where no airport is located to Bankstown a distance of some miles where one is located. 
Furthermore, the buildings and machinery at Lidcombe are old. All logic is in favour of the rationalisation. One can only wonder how it is that it has taken the national parliament and national governments so many years to get this process into motion. If I might be permitted, I express an element of despair and exasperation in this debate. As for the main matter referred to by the honourable member for Blaxland, the capacity at Bankstown is a problem but I do not believe it is a matter which should influence us at all in a consideration of this change because there is already an existing defence capacity at Bankstown. Everything is in favour of consolidating the machine shop which exists at Lidcombe with something which will be more worth while. Hopefully the day is not too far off when we will see an expansion and rationalisation in the wider sense of the term throughout the whole defence aircraft industry in Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was at some pains to repeat that the consumer price index rise of 6 per cent was the effect of inflation in this country. He was at pains to say that it is the traditional measure of inflation. He did not really make much of a case about the once-only effects of Medibank but rather emphasised that the rise in the CPI was 6 per cent. I draw to his attention one or two statements which I hope he will accept as his own. In referring to the December quarter 1975 index he said: 
A large proportion of the CPI increase has been due to effects of increased charges by State and Australian Government instrumentalities and increases in duties and charges by those governments. These will be largely once only effects and, provided sensible restraint is used in economic management in the course of the calendar year, there is no reason why the CPI should not come down substantially for succeeding quarters. 
Today he told us the reverse. He also argued in relation to December 1975 that not too much emphasis should be put on a single quarter and that it had to be averaged with the preceding quarter for purposes of economic analysis. 
That is Hayden 's law. This is his statement: 
You ought to put that CPI figure together with the September quarter CPI figure and average them ... I think you have got to put those 2 things together and to take the average for purposes of judging the economic effect. 
He said that the Government's economic policy is in tatters. I put it to the House that when the honourable member for Oxley was Treasurer, the third Labor Treasurer, he tried to get his Government to point in the direction of the policies implemented in a much stronger way and more firmly by this Government. He tried to reduce government spending; he tried to reduce the deficit; he tried to put some restraint on wages. He also tried to tighten the money supply. Now that those policies are being pursued with some vigour he says they have failed. I think we on this side of the House have several times acknowledged that he made an attempt in 1975 to do something. Some of us would think he may have got further if he had not had so much opposition in his own Party and Cabinet. 
The truth of the matter is that the Medibank proportion of the CPI figures is a once only expense. This component is a charge at the moment of $2,000m which the. Government has to pay. Of course, Australia is not being given free health care. There is no such thing as free health care. What the Government did was to transfer the cost from general revenue into a specific levy. The general impact of this move has been felt this year. Everybody who looks at this matter carefully and sensibly should know that the CPI figure must be discounted by that amount. When this is done the CPI rise is brought down to a smaller percentage. 
There has been a great deal of talk about statistics. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has tabled an accurate table. I suggest that honourable members have a look at it. I do not intend to add more statistics because I suspect that this whole debate could be bogged down in a competition about inflation rates. Can there really be any doubt that the inflation level is dropping? Can there really be any doubt that when Labor became the Government it inherited a relatively low inflation rate and that the Labor Government got the March 1976 quarter inflation rate to the dizzy height of 1 7.6 per cent? 
If honourable members opposite doubt the Australian Statistician, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  appears to do, let them look at the figures of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which show that there has been a downward trend in inflation since that March quarter of 1976. The policies of the present Government have effected some of that. They are policies that to a very large degree are an extension of policies introduced by the honourable member for Oxley when he was the last Labor Treasurer. 
Medibank is responsible for more than half of the CPI increase. But the important thing is this: The ingredient of 3.2 per cent for Medibank has nothing to do with the inflationary pressures in the Australian economy today. The CPI is a measure of inflation or price rises. Although the CPI is our major indicator of inflation and the most important index we have we should not just blindly accept it each quarter as an index and never ask what is in it. The Medibank component has nothing to do with the inflationary pressures in the Australian economy today. 
Before I leave this subject I would like to say that health care can never be free. It did not become free on 1 July 1975 when the Labor Government introduced its scheme. It is not free now. With the Medibank levy we have the chance to see what health care is really costing us. That is why it has been identified; that is why it has been made separate. We can now see what the cost is and we can judge whether we are prepared to pay that much in the future. I do not think there is any doubt that the cost of health care will grow much faster in the future and that as a result resources will be taken away, from other major areas such as education and welfare where they would otherwise be used. 
The importance of inflation really can hardly be overstated. However, I want to make the point that increased inflation in recent years in Australia has led to more unemployment. This is a very important aspect of the effect of inflation. We were reminded of this recently in a famous speech that the Leader of the Opposition made to the Australian Young Labor Conference in Adelaide on 25 January 1975. I would like to make some short quotations from that speech. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
The other thing that I wanted to say in this connection is the cause of unemployment now. And it is, frankly, the excessive wage increases. 
Later on he said: 
I don't say that the inflation at the time that we came in or even in 1973 was due- let alone primarily due- to wage increases and claims. 
In other words, it was not due to the previous Government. 
But it is indubitably primarily and almost solely due to wage increases and claims today. 
He was speaking in January 197S. He went on to mention things that we could not blame as a cause of inflation. He concluded by saying: 
The principal contributor in inflation now is the wage claims. And this has brought about the unemployment . . . 
Of course, those claims and wage rises which so many people think are chasing prices rises are the primary cause of the rise in the CPI. There.fore people who are genuinely concerned about the CPI rise must be concerned about unemployment. The record in this respect is clear. When the Labor Government took over in December 1972, 139 000 people were unemployed; when it left office the number was 328 000. This rise took place during a period of enormous expansion in government expenditure. I put that to the House because it gives the lie to those who say that the way to get out of this situation is to spend more and more. This may be the answer in some circumstances but it is certainly not the answer in our present circumstance. The present Leader of the Opposition also claimed at the beginning of last year that the 5.6 per cent increase in the index for the December quarter 1975 reflected moves towards economic recovery sparked by the August 1975 Hayden Budget. Now presumably he will explain why the December quarter of 1975 reflected recovery and the December quarter of 1 976 did not. 
I conclude by saying that this Government has identified the major economic problems in the Australian economy. It has taken strong measures to combat them. The previous Government, after the tremendous spending of 1973 and 1974 and after leaving the economy awash in liquidity, had opportunities to take these measures years ago. That is what the United States of America, Japan, West Germany and one or two other countries did. That is why the level of unemployment in those countries is lower. That is why their inflation rate is lower. That is why their equivalent to the CPI is lower. That is why their interest rates are lower. They took these measures; they took them 2 years earlier. 
-The matter of public importance introduced by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  states: 
The Government's policy of substantially reducing real wage and salary levels. 
This is not a motion. It does not express or condemn anything. When one reads it carefully one can see that it is really rather a flat statement. I want to begin my speech by referring to a Press comment that appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on the morning of 28 February purporting to report a section of a speech made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is the Labor spokesman on Treasury matters. The article stated: 
The shadow Treasurer,  Mr Hurford,  said last night that the Arbitration Commission might have some justification in not passing on the full 6 per cent CPI rise. 
All that, of course, is in complete contrast with what has been put to us by the Labor Party spokesman today. The newspaper itself commented, I think pertinently: 

 Mr Hurford 's remarks are the first by any Labor politician or union leader to indicate that less than the full 6 per cent flow-on may be acceptable. 
That shows that there was a hesitation in his mind. Of course, there are substantial reasons why the 6 per cent consumer price index rise should not flow on. When this House met in the last week of the last Parliament, which was only 2 weeks ago, that matter was debated fully and the Government's position was made known. I must say that I do not think the Labor Opposition's attempts to tackle that argument really stood up. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand said in passing that the Australian Labor Party was equally concerned about inflation; that the only quarrel was about how it should be dealt with. Then he made this intriguing statement: 'We have put forward our proposals'. He was referring to anti-inflationary proposals. I cannot let the opportunity go by without asking: To which proposals was he referring? Surely he was not referring to the proposals of the Opposition spokesman on Treasury matters, which involve so much increased spending. Surely they are not the anti-inflationary proposals to which he was referring. We know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  are big spenders. Really, they have never made much secret of that fact. They believe that the way out of all problems- social problems, economic problems and so on- is to spend money. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that in 1974, when Labor was in power and tried that method, it failed, as it must fail. When France tried it last year, after its inflation rate had started to fall, if found that inflation went up again. This is what the present British Prime Minister, a Labour Prime Minister, said recently: 
We used to think that you could just spend your way out of a recession and increase employment by cutting taxes and boosting Government spending. I tell you in all candour that that option no longer exists and that, insofar as it ever did exist, it worked by injecting inflation into the economy. 
Further quotations along the same line by the British Prime Minister were published recently. 
-That was the British Labour Prime Minister. To be fair, what he said is in line with what was said by the former Prime Ministerthe present Leader of the Opposition- in the speech which has been quoted by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and others in this House. 
Let me quickly make a few comments about real wages and consumption. Recent experience shows clearly that consumption cannot be boosted by increasing wages. For example, in 1974 male award wages were increased by over 16 per cent between the March and December quarters, and real average earnings went up by 10 per cent. Over the same period consumption spending rose by less than one per cent. What happened was that savings, as a consequence largely of increased inflation and inflationary expectations, rose sharply as a proportion of income. Cleary inflation plays a key role in determining consumers' spending. This is also shown in the United States of America, where the saving ratio began to fall as soon as it was obvious that inflation was under control. Getting the real wage increases down is necessary in order to control inflation and to expand economic activity and employment. As this happens, consumers will regain confidence and spend more rather than less of their incomes. The assertion that consumption growth cannot take place without growth in the real wage is clearly at odds with the evidence from other countries. Furthermore, the obverse- that increases in the real wage are necessary for consumption growth- was tested and found wanting in 1974. The last Labor Treasurer explicitly recognised the real wage problem in his 1975 Budget Speech, when he said: 
It does employees generally no good to get higher and higher money incomes if the results are just higher prices, a severe squeeze on profits, a slump in new investment and a contraction of job opportunities. 
Obviously he was right. Finally, I refer to the words of the present Leader of the Opposition at the 1975 Young Labor Conference, when he said: 
Inflation today is undoubtedly and almost solely due to wage claims and increases. 
The cost of wage increases and stoppages on jobs is important to us and central to this matter raised by the Opposition. Australians surely must be concerned about the level of industrial disputation in the community and should support strongly the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's view that each union member and each union official must evaluate the impact that any stoppage, ban or limitation may have on the viability of the existing wage indexation package. The cumulative effect of disputation must worsen inflation and further prolong the plight of the unemployed through a retardation of economic recovery. The latest figures available- those for December 1976- indicate that, in 1976, 3.8 million working days were lost in 2055 disputes. The number of working days lost was the second highest number recorded since 1929. Excluding the Medibank disputes, the figures would be lower than in each of the 4 preceding years. However, when one comes to analyse the effect of the level of industrial disputation on the economy, one cannot put aside such political disputes. The Commission, in its 22 November decision, said:  . . strikes no matter how they orginate or for what purpose may be relevant to economic considerations. Strikes over matters such as Medibank may or may not be in breach of the guidelines but, be that as it may. the 2 057 000 mandays lost over Medibank must have an adverse effect on production and on the economy as a whole. 
Another point is that certain types of industrial action which have been pursued- for example, overtime bans and work-to-regulations limitations- can and do have serious effects on economic capacity and the level of employment but are not reflected in dispute statistics. These actions must have implications for the future of the current wage indexation package. In addition to this aspect, it is a matter of record that the recent industrial situation has caused concern overseas about our ability to meet contractual and export obligations. In the longer run continued high levels of industrial disputation must place at risk the whole future of a rational system of wage fixation in Australia. The Government's case presented before the Commission is in the national interest. I conclude by quoting the words of a former Labor Treasurer: 
One man 's wage rise is another man 's job. 
-The matter of public importance proposed today for discussion reads: 
The need for active support from all sections of the community to ensure the effectiveness of the prices and wages freeze. 
I remind the House of that because of how far away from it we seem to have moved. The Opposition has been claiming that some wrong was done it because it could not bring on a matter of public importance. I point out a contradiction in that. All honourable members will know that the Standing Orders provide that any honourable member may propose a matter of public importance. Where there is more than one the  Speaker  will choose the one to be dealt with. The Opposition brings on overwhelmingly more matters of public importance. There is no reason why this matter should not be debated in this way today. Is anyone going to tell me that any other matter is more important or urgent? But the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who has just been speaking went further than that. He said that what we really ought to be talking about now is what the Government is going to do. But he proposed a matter of public importance, not on this matter, which he wanted to have precedence. 
Wait a minute. The honourable member did not want to hear the Government first; he wanted to make a speech first, and he was prepared to have the Government's statement made after the discussion of his matter of public importance. The honourable member wanted to discuss his matter instead of this one. That is the distinction. Of course the procedure that has been followed has been strictly in accordance with the Standing Orders. We put this matter forward and ask for active support. The honourable member for Adelaide said in his speech that he had some sympathy with the objective of the proposal. But really, 99 per cent of that speech- and I would dare to predict that the same will apply to the speech that is to follow mine- was pointed against it. The honourable member really rubbished the proposal, almost without pause. 
The primary fact is that we have 7 leaders of governments in Australia- 6 State Governments and the Commonwealth Government- who for the first time have made a general agreement about the question of prices and incomes restraint. The proposal has been published far and wide. I think people have read the terms of it although a good deal of misrepresentation of those terms has occurred. I invite honourable members and the public to read what the 7 leaders signed, not what honourable members opposite say it might lead to or the details of it. I ask them to read the words and to read what those 7 leaders said because what they said is rather different from the whole plan that honourable members opposite are asking this Governmentnot all of those governments- to throw on the table. 
Public support for this proposal of prices and incomes restraint is tremendous. The reason for it is clear: The public and, surely, all of us are fed up with price and wage rises chasing one another- the vicious circle which has been created. But here for the first time we have some large measure of agreement. Surely we should go on and try to enlarge that agreement as far as we can, as part of- and I emphasise the words 'part of- the anti-inflationary policies. The proposal for restraint needs wider support yet. I would have looked to the members of the Labor Party in this House- I say 'would have' because of what we have just heard- and to the unions to give the plan some opportunity to work, not because it will answer every question, but because it will help in dealing with our major problems. 
Is there anybody who does not want to reduce inflation, which will thereby lead to a reduction in unemployment and interest rates? Consider the position of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  or any Prime Minister, and any government in having to contend with the different objectives of States- there are six of them- of various employer groups, of various unionsthere are many of them- and of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which has said often that its determinations were not necessarily going to conform with Government policy. It is a tremendous problem for any government, not only this Government, to face. It was a tremendous problem for the previous Labor Government in 1975. In fact towards the end of that Government's term it did make a few efforts towards dealing with some of the major problems. Perhaps it did not get as far as we would have liked to see. A moment ago, the honourable member for Adelaide suggested that one way out of the problem was to spend more money. I remind him that we really do not have to have a theoretical argument about that because the former Labor Government tried it in 1974 and early 1975 as a means of defeating inflation. All that happened was that we got more inflation and more unemployment. Of course, when the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  became Treasurer, he tried to reverse that trend a little but by that time the position had gone too far. 
I come back to the problem of the groups that a prime minister and a government have to deal with. How can anyone achieve anything in this country unless there is a measure of cooperation, unless some of those groups are prepared to co-operate? It is so easy to criticise yet the public wants some restraint. We have had the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who this day has not made a comment on this matter, say that the plan ought to be given a chance. We have had his  Deputy,  the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  oppose it. We have had the honourable member for Oxley oppose it. We have had the honourable member for Adelaide actually countenance it to some degree but, as I have pointed out, from the tenor of his remarks a moment ago, he mainly opposed it. 
This matter of public importance calls for more support. Why should not there be more general support for this proposition, bearing in mind the lack of total power and the many groups that there are? The Commonwealth has already take some action. Honourable members will have seen the statement of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  about the Prices Justification Tribunal and about the approaches which the . Government will make to certain companies whose price rises were imminent but had not been settled. He set out categories. This Government has done things it can to restrain prices. As far as I am aware, all the States have taken measures, certainly in respect of their own charges. I believe in most States that many companies which were about tq make price rises will not make them. The companies have announced that. 
There have been a number of complaints. I am just explaining that there is a good deal of acceptance of the proposition. One can always point to the people who want to knock any proposal. I am disappointed in the attitude of the Opposition today. It can of course concentrate on these difficulties if it wishes. I believe that in the main the proposition can have a measure of success. What we are calling for today is that it be given the maximum chance. A number of large companies have announced that they will not make price rises. That means that wage earners and salary earners do not have to pay those rises. They received a $5.70 a week increase recently. This is a moment to draw the line. There are some price rises which have been restrained. That is already on the record. One would hope to see more. I remind the House that included in the companies which have announced that they will not increase prices are the major chain stores. That factor must surely be an important item in the budgets of average income families. Surely one is in a position to say that there should be some wage restraint as well. 
We heard about the request for a full plan and details. I remind the House of what the Premiers signed. They did not sign such a plan. There has not been an opportunity to go into every detail and to answer all the questions raised at question time today. Anybody can raise such difficulties in a mixed economy. Anybody can raise difficulties where there is a free resources allocation system and where there is a large degree of freedom in a community. A large degree of restraint is called for. For the first time we have an opportunity of keeping people together. I think we should work for a national consensus for restraint on all sides. 
-The House is debating the Appropriation Bills Nos 3 and  4  presented at this time of year to the Parliament to authorise funds for the Government to carry on expenditure in many areas. Following as they do Appropriation Bills Nos 1 and 2 which are presented at the time the Budget is produced in August, I suppose that the debate on these Bills presents the second major occasion for a debate on economic matters. I believe that there has never been a greater public interest than today in the control of Government expenditure. Never has it been found so difficult to control. Much of the expenditure is linked directly to rises in the consumer price index. Almost all the other rises can be linked indirectly because clearly those rises are the result of pressures caused by wage and salary rises. This means that we can predict with some certainty that the expenditure in existing schemes will increase at about the same rate as the inflation rate. That amount of increase has been predicted variously at somewhere between 15 per cent and 18 per cent. That is the percentage increase which I think most people have suggested. 
To my mind, that is really a most important aspect of our economic consideration. If we keep on spending, which has been the clear result of our economic activity in this country in the last 10 years, that spending can be financed in only 2 ways: In taxes or in the deficit, which is really a hidden tax since sooner or later people- the taxpayers and those producing- have to make it up. There is a great outcry in this country for a reduction of taxes. I can say with confidence to the House and to anyone listening to the debate that the issue facing the Government at present is not whether to reduce taxes but whether to increase them. If honourable members look at the necessary growth and expenditure as a result of schemes- particularly those that were instituted by Labor governments in the last 3 years they were in office- they will see that the Government has no leeway to grant large-scale tax reductions. We all know- I hope we do- that the level of income tax in this country is much too high. The Government has tried to alleviate this situation. Let me point out what it has done. 
It has applied an index to the income tax rates- what is known as income tax indexation. It is a horrible conglomerate but the result of it has been to try to prevent tax getting into higher and higher tax brackets as incomes go up purely because of the pressure of inflation. That has meant that the Government has received over $ 1 billion less in tax. This is the Budget outlook for this year. We have a situation in which the revenue is that much short. The Government has also tried to encourage industry. I believe the Government will have succeeded in that encouragement by the payment of the investment allowance and by enacting very shortly further legislation which will give deductions to companies in trading activities based on the amount of stock they have. But those schemes represent costs to the revenue in the same way as there is a cost against the revenue when, in line with the increase in consumer price index, pensions and unemployment benefits are increased and the costs of health, education, defence and payments to the States are also increased. Those areas I have mentioned are the 5 big areas of expenditure. As a matter of fact, those areas I have mentioned account for nearly 80 per cent of the Commonwealth's Budget. 
I have said that income tax is too high. Of course, it is too high. What I want to emphasise to the House tonight is that the reason for that is that expenditure is too high and it is high time we limited it. I am not speaking now particularly of this Government, I am speaking of all governments. I am also stating that the part played by this Parliament in attempting to do anything constructive in that area is sadly lacking Wage and salary earners in this country carry the whole burden of government expenditure. That means really that the middle income group carries the burden because there is not enough money earned by the lower and higher income groups to get enough tax revenue. The burden is borne by those in the middle. If this Government does not act- I mean act more than it has done- that rising expenditure will smother this nation as it is in the process of smothering one or two other nations. It is a burden on all economic activity in this country. 
Government expenditure in about the last 5 years has been the prime cause of inflation. What is more, its growth being linked to the CPI guarantees continued inflation. I am not an opponent of government expenditure for its own sake. But I do propose that Parliament should develop much more adequate systems for controlling expenditure. We have practically no structure to deal with that at the present. We should concentrate much more on the priorities instead of dealing with peripheral matters such as the one raised today as a censure motion. This and other such matters are not central to the issue at hand and everybody in the chamber knows that full well. What we do is debate the little bits and pieces. We do not debate, as we ought to, the major issues of this country- those of greatest importance. We do not discuss how much of the nation's resources ought to be devoted to public expenditure and how much to private expenditure. We do not debate often enough the policy alternatives. We do not debate the priorities. We inadequately scrutinise Supply and we have not developed in the Parliament adequate institutions to monitor public spending. 
I believe that much of the problem in dealing with inflation is political and not economic. We have before us an Opposition amendment to the motion that the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) be read a second time. Really, the wording of it is such that members of the Opposition should be ashamed. I do not know who drafted the amendment but it is a disgrace. Let me refer to a bit of it. The Opposition wants to condemn the Government for the slashing of government spending which it says is part of an inept economic strategy which has led to a decline in the standard of living of all Australians. The amendment also states: 
there is an urgent need for alternative policies of promoting a consumer led recovery by cuts in indirect taxes and appropriate stimulatory expenditure on job creation and manpower training programs - 
Later the amendment speaks of instituting a more vigorous bond selling program.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will tell you what a more vigorous bond selling program is: It is raising interest rates- interest rates forced up by the most prolonged inflation this country has ever had. The Opposition wants that inflation at higher levels. That is what is being asked for- higher levels of inflation. You do not go out and sell bonds in a high pressure manner to people who do not know what they are buying. They will take them only if the yield is high. If the Government is having trouble selling them today, of course, it is because that rate is not high enough. If the bond rate is put up, housing mortgage rates and everything else tied to the bond rate go up. I believe that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  knows much better. But, to be fair to him he did not move this amendment. It was moved by none other than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  One need say little about his economic expertise; it has been referred to enough by others. But the slashing of Government expenditure is seen by this amendment as being part of an inept economic strategy. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that reducing Government expenditure at these rates of interest is the view of governments, treasuries and reserve banks- that is, central banks- of all the major western countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. That is what those countries did when they were in that part of the cycle. 
But this country, which let the inflation rate get so much higher, which took action so much later- the honourable member for Oxley as Treasurer in 1975 did his part to try to rein it in- and which has done so much worse than those countries, still has not returned to their level. Of course, we heard earlier in this debate that there have been pressures in the United States and Germany, which has an inflation rate of 4 per cent, for those countries, because of their low inflation rates, to spend a little to try to create some employment. It has been said in this House in the last few sitting days that, if they can do it, we can do it. We cannot do it because our inflation rate is so much greater and because we fell victim to this problem in 1974 and 1975 for reasons which those Governments did not experience. We had advantages which they did not have. For instance, when the oil price went up as dramatically as it did at the end of 1 973, they did not produce 70 per cent of their oil supplies. They did not have that advantage. Incidentally, if they had, they would hardly have embarked on policies which stopped all exploration and development of gas in this country. That is what the Labor Government did. We have not yet been able to recover from that action. 
Nor did those countries ever have the reckless growth of expenditure which we saw in this country. The expenditure in 1973 was $10 billion. This year, as a result of the Labor Government's programs, the expenditure will be $24 billion which represents an enormous growth. It is quite out of keeping with our capacity to pay. Nor did those countries actively encourage wage rises far beyond the increase in their productivity. They had much more responsible government and they kept control of conditions and never allowed them to reach the dizzy heights reached in this country, with all the disadvantages that that entails. The result, as is on the record, was that 3 years of Labor Government brought us vastly increased inflation, vastly increased unemployment and the highest interest rates ever. This Government has attempted to grapple with that state of affairs. There are some signs- I emphasise 'some'- that its action is having some result. But in my view it will take a long while before there will be the growth and the increasing employment upon which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  placed so much emphasis earlier in the debate. It will be a long while before those conditions return to this country. 
Because this aspect seems to me to need repetition, I put it to the House that those major countries are not really in much doubt about the economic measures to take. If one reads the OECD publications and the publications put out by government, treasury, and central bank bodies in the United States, Germany, Japan, France and Britain, there is not much quarrel about the sorts of measures that are necessary. The problem is whether those countries and their governments have the political will to carry them out. Do they have the fortitude- I will not use the loose word that I might have used- to implement them and to continue them long enough until they can get out of their present difficulties. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  leading for the Opposition on Thursday last made some remarks which appear at page 1366 of  Hansard.  He referred to the situation in France and how some new measures have just been introduced in that country. I wish to refer very briefly to the situation in France because the members of the French Treasury are highly intelligent and balanced people. Their new Prime Minister in, I think, September or October last brought in a package. One element in that package was to try to keep wage rises in France to no more than 6'/4 per cent per annum. That would be laughable in this country. So much for France's re-inflation! I inform honourable members that their Budget had no deficit. That would be called- indeed it was called- a brand of stone age economics- only that term was applied to us. That was termed Gladstonian but that is what he thought of the value of such action. The Prime Minister of France in the last few days has announced some expenditure. The political crises and difficulties in France cannot be compared with the stability that we have in this country. He was forced into that action by political circumstances. If one looks at the original package that was introduced in October and compares it with the one that was introduced recently, one will find that the increase is far less than we have in this country at the moment. One really should not take selective quotations in that way. 
One cannot believe that the combined economic opinions of those countries, with economies which, I suggest, are the only ones in the world with which we would really care to be compared, or the weight of opinion in those treasuries and central banks, which is implemented by governments, is wrong and out of date, as is suggested by honourable gentlemen not only on the other side of the House but also on occasions on this side of the House. 
I do not believe that, as politicians and members of Parliament, we should take that sort of responsibility on ourselves. If we imagine a situation in which the Labor Party were returned to government in the near future- one truly hopes that this could never be- it must know that what it proposes in the amendment and what the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford ) suggested would run completely counter to the advice that would be given to it by the Australian Treasury and the Australian Reserve Bank. Thai must be known. So, I believe it is not a cogent and well thought out amendment. The amendment stated, in part: 
. appropriate stimulatory expenditure on job creation and manpower training programs. 
I suppose that one would have to concede that there is an area of doubt in that area. It is very hard, when one looks back on such programs that we have had in this country and in those OECD countries to which I have referred, to see them as having been very successful. We saw the operation of the Regional Employment Development scheme in this country. It is very hard- I hope I say that with understatement- to see that it was successful. That is what is called for here. I have referred already to the issue of a vigorous bond selling program which apparently is necessary to finance the deficit because the Labor Party is still arguing that there should be higher expenditure, irrespective of the tax aspect. It does not want to say: 'We are going to increase taxes wholesale.' So, it has to be a financing of the deficit. Once that deficit is increased there will be inevitably a rise in interest rates above the already very high level that we have at the moment. As members of the House of Representatives, we need to take steps to encourage the Government to build up in this country political will and a widespread understanding of how this ballooning of expenditure is involving us. In our present circumstances the community, as usual, is asking for more expenditure, on the one hand, and lower taxes, on the other. There are many avenues of expenditure which are desirable and for which strong cases can be made out for continuous expenditure or increased expenditure, but the community cannot pay for everything at once. 
Has the Treasurer examined the trend in the rates of inflation following the announcement of the consumer price index figures for the March quarter? If so, what conclusions has he reached? 
Can the Treasurer inform the House of the outcome of the recently closed May loan raising? 
-I take the opportunity on the presentation of this report of congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on his election, which I might say has received all too little recognition in this country. What the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  said about the Minister and the high office he has attained was properly and well said. I also congratulate the 2 delegates who went to last year's United Nations General Assembly for being able to have attached to this report their own report as appendix. I believe it is a valuable one and makes a number of points which members who have attended the United Nations General Assembly, and I was one in 1973, would support and perhaps in retrospect wish that they had made to this House. In the main, I support the views which have been put to the House by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I associate myself with those views and particularly with the statements they made about the quality of the Foreign Affairs officers in the Australian mission to the United Nations. One such officer,  Mr Campbell,  was equally hospitable to me and to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman). Mr Campbell  is in the chamber today now as an adviser to the Government, and I pay tribute to the hospitality and cooperation which he and his associates extended to us when we attended the 1973 United Nations General Assembly. 
Our experiences were similar to those of this delegation. I think it ought to be said that this House pays too little attention to the activities in the United Nations. There are reasons why honourable members, and perhaps Australians generally, have some hesitation about praising the activities of the United Nations, but surely those people must realise on reflection that, as the major international body, it is a body in which we should participate as honestly, as straightforwardly and as actively as we can. The members of this Parliament who have been to the United Nations have had an experience at the most important international body in the world which will help them for all of their political lives. I believe that this House ought to follow the recommendation made by those members in their report. If I might say so to the Minister, I believe that not only members of the House but he and the Government also should take an interest in the recommendations contained in the report. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for National Resources concerns the development of the huge natural gas fields in the North-West Shelf. Is the Government examining the proposals for the development of those fields? Can the Minister say what stage has been reached with the Western Australian Government in the joint venture? Further, can the Minister give any indication as to when the detailed feasibility study will commence? 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Expenditure, I present the report of the Committee on accommodation for married servicemen. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-This is the first report of an inquiry made by the Expenditure Committee. It is the first of 2 inquiries of Government programs that the Committee has examined. In the Committee's view there is an urgent need for a complete overhaul of the programs that provide accommodation for married servicemen. This is the basic conclusion the Committee has reached after a most comprehensive investigation into the subject. 
The Committee believes that such accommodation is not being provided in the most economical ways. Firstly, many houses are being constructed by the States when private builders could have built these houses at significantly lower costs-about $Im less in 1976-77; secondly, the purchase of many more houses from the market would have resulted in further reductions in Budget outlays; and, thirdly, the failure to minimise hirings- that is, leasings of private accommodation- has prevented outlays from being held to their lowest level. As a result of this, Service rents are higher than they should be. 
The Committee expresses great concern at the proposed 40 per cent increase in rents, some of which was avoidable as the earlier comment indicates. We are of the opinion that there will be further significant rent increases in the future. Service rents are below market rents but the gap is closing and if significant increases continue the Committee warns that more and more servicemen could rent on the market rather than from the defence stock on a value for money basis, thereby leaving the Commonwealth to foot the bill of dead rents payable to the States. 
After considerable deliberation we have reached the conclusion that there was not much to be gained from simply patching up the existing scheme. Our basic recommendations are aimed at the discontinuation of most plans for the construction or acquisition of housing for use by married servicemen; and the introduction of explicit rent allowances on a permanent basis. There are also recommendations for the Commonwealth to divest itself gradually of the existing defence stock by selling the stock it owns and returning other stock to the States. While this stock lasts we recommend that the rent concession servicemen receive- that is, the difference between market rents and defence housing rents- be set in a rational way so that they will not be eroded by massive rent increases which are, to an extent, the result of uneconomic decisions on building or acquiring defence housing. The rent concessions and the rent allowances would reflect the housing related disabilities servicemen suffer. 
Under our proposals many servicemen would have the freedom to choose the type, quality and location of the accommodation they require for their families. Servicemen would benefit particularly because the defence housing stock is generally below standard. The proposals also would be more economical and would result in short term reductions in Budget outlays of about $ 1 3m in 1977-78 and $59m in 1978-79 and 1979-80 combined. This week the Committee will be examining several other areas with the intention of announcing further inquiries to commence immediately. I commend the report to the House. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Expenditure I present the report on Australia's overseas representation. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The Committee's inquiry into Australia's overseas representation has concentrated on the appropriateness of staff numbers which, directly and indirectly, determine most costs in this field. The principal conclusion arising from the inquiry is that there is a need for more effective on-going systems of control over Australia's representation overseas. In the last 2 years dramatic reductions have been made in the staffing of departments with major responsibilities overseas. Yet they are still performing their functions without serious impairment. The Committee is recommending a system of biennial reviews by government of the whole field of overseas representation. They would be based on submissions by the relevant departments and by the central regulatory authorities. The reviews would enable government to determine the total volume of resources it is prepared to allocate to this area in light of competing demands on the limited available resources and bring greater discipline to departmental thinking on the use of their resources. The first review should take place in about February 1978. 
The Committee also makes specific recommendations aimed at improving departments' capacity to keep under regular and effective scrutiny their allocation of resources overseas, notably more frequent inspections of posts by senior officers and improved reporting on management matters. The measures proposed are not a panacea. They are an aid to, not a substitute for, discipline on the part of departments and central authorities in constantly examining priorities and the elaborateness of their operations. It must always be borne in mind by governments and by departments that the average cost of having an Australia-based officer on an overseas posting now exceeds $70,000 per annum and in individual cases exceeds $100,000 per annum. 
The evidence collected by the Committee suggests that, as a result of the recent thoroughgoing reviews of staffing overseas, the numbers of staff now accord with essential workloads in the great majority of cases. The Committee is disturbed, however, by the size of the Australian High Commission in London despite major staff reductions in recent years. The Committee recommends that locally-engaged staff in London be reduced to 500, that is, by over 100. Other staff reductions recommended in the report would result in a minimum net reduction of 1 9 Australia-based officers and at least a further 50 locally engaged staff. Some of these reductions would be effected by the closure of posts in Rio de Janeiro, Karachi, Port-of-Spain and Christchurch. Others would result from withdrawal of representatives of the Commonwealth Scientific, Industrial and Research Organisation, the Attorney-General's Department and the Departments of Education, Social Security and Veterans' Affairs. 
The Committee also recommends detailed examinations to determine, firstly, whether Australiabased staff at 8 Immigration posts should be withdrawn and the posts covered by a system of regional representation and, secondly, whether 25 positions at Trade Commissioner posts are justified by the essential workload at the posts. The Committee expects further reductions in staff to result from these examinations. The report places some emphasis on the need for Heads of Mission to be given greater delegated authority in administrative and financial matters. Officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, in particular, should be given a wide range of experience inside and outside of the Department to ensure that those who become Heads of Mission are equipped to handle administrative responsibilities capably. I point out that the words former' and 'latter' in recommendation 17 have been incorrectly transposed. I commend the report to the House. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Has the attention of the Government been drawn to continuing reports that atrocities have occurred in Kampuchea, formerly Cambodia? Is the Government able to shed any further light on the extent of repression that has taken place since the change of government? Has he also seen reports of numerous border clashes with Thailand stating that numerous Thai villagers, including women and children, have been massacred? Does the Government have any information on these reports and what is the Government 's attitude? 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
-Today I represent the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who has carriage of this Bill. He apologises for his inability to be here as it was important for him to attend certain meetings. However, I make a point which may have been overlooked by one  speaker  in the debate. The Prime Minister delivered the second reading speech on this Bill. On behalf of the Government I thank the Opposition for its general support of the Bill. I acknowledge and thank the Opposition for many of the remarks that were made. I shall bring to the attention of the Prime Minister the major arguments put forward by speakers in the debate. But I want to say that I know the Government has given most careful consideration to the reports of the Hope Royal Commission in coming to its conclusions which are embodied in this Bill. While the Government did not take up all the recommendations made in the Hope reports it considered the matters, and it received advice from its advisers. Nevertheless, the Bill certainly embodies the three major principles of creating independence, centralising the role of the National Assessments Office and giving it a wider role, particularly in the economic held. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  made a number of comments to which I will respond briefly. He was particularly concerned about clandestine intelligence. I am advised that the Office of National Assessments is not authorised to collect intelligence by clandestine means. I make that clear. The Prime Minister foreshadowed this in his statement on intelligence and security arrangements on 5 May and reaffirmed it in his second reading speech on 15 September. The Office will, of course, use information obtained by others, sometimes by clandestine means. 
I emphasis that this Bill must be read in conjunction with the Prime Minister's two statements of 5 May and 15 September. This was acknowledged by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam).  The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  spent a good deal of his speech referring to the composition of the National Assessments Board. He said he believed that others should also be on it. In another part of his speech he referred to the limitations he found in this Bill. I draw his attention to the provisions in clause 6(1) which states: 
. such other persons as the Minister directs. 
Sub-clause (2) mentions specific people who must be on the National Assessments Board. I make it clear that there is provision for the Government- I am not foreshadowing what its action may be- to make such appointments as it sees fit but it is bound to appoint at least those persons who are specifically referred to in subclause (2). 
I understand that. I repeat what I said a moment ago. I will communicate to the Prime Minister the major arguments put forward in the debate. In particular, the force of argument of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith will come under his notice. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  foreshadowed that he will move an amendment to this Bill in respect of the appointment to the Board referred to in clause 6 (2) (b). In order to save a little time I must indicate at this stage that the Government is not prepared to accept that amendment. The Joint Intelligence Organisation is not a statutory body. The Government does not believe that it ought to be mentioned specifically in a Bill. It would need to be mentioned if the Director was in every case to be a member of the Board. However, it is the Government's intention to appoint the most senior civilian in the Joint Intelligence Organisation. As long as the Joint Intelligence Organisation remains a section of the Department of Defence as it is at present it would be expected that the Director would fill the position referred to in clause 6 (2) (b). 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)-  I thank him for his kindness to me- seemed to find considerable faults with the Bill. He offered considerable criticism of it. I was left wondering whether he proposed to vote against it because his criticisms were farreaching. But I understand that that is not his intention. To some extent he seemed to be at cross purposes with the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. Perhaps that is commendable independence but not, therefore, Labor policy. Anyway, I shall leave that for others to consider. The Government commends this Bill to the House. I should mention that not long ago I learnt that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  also proposes to move an amendment. For the record I should say that I learnt of that at 3.27 p.m. Because the Government regards this as a most serious Bill and has given it very lengthy consideration I could not accept such an amendment. For that reason the Government shall oppose it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4- by leave- taken together. 
The Government when it received notice of this amendment only a few hours ago had an opportunity to consider it briefly. The Government came to the conclusion that it should not be agreed to for the reasons I mentioned in replying to the second reading debate. If the honourable member is asking me to ask the Government to have another look at it, I certainly am prepared to do that; but I would not like turn to think that I was holding out any hope that the Government is likely to agree with it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-In reply to the debate on the proposed expenditure for the Department of Veterans' Affairs I would like to take up two points made by various speakers but in particular the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  In the course of his few remarks the honourable member for Wills suggested that he did not like the name of the Department That name has existed for some time and I do not know why the honourable member has stored up this grievance for so long. 
The honourable member might have to ask what are the reasons for that. For the record, the term 'veterans' affairs' is also used in Canada and the United States of America; so it is by no means a novelty. Although I was not associated with the Department at the time of its change of name, I believe that the name reflects some widening in responsibilities. The functions of the Department now cover defence service homes and war graves in addition to repatriation. The major question I want to answer-  (Quorum formed). 
I was saying that the honourable member for Burke and the honourable member for Wills raised a question of principle which I think is worth answering. They asked: How do we decide, after all this time, whether a disability is service related? I point out one or two of the principles involved. There is no onus of proof on a veteran, and there never has been. Decisions are made on the available evidence and on the balance of probabilities, and that has been a principle adopted by successive governments for a long time. Veterans receive the benefit of any doubt that exists in the mind of the determining authority as to any fact The law requires a claim to be allowed unless the determining authority is satisfied that there is insufficient reason for allowing it. The absence of proof of a claimant's assertion certainly does not mean that his claim fails. One of the factors taken into consideration is the likelihood of medical or other records having been lost or of incomplete records having been made at the time of service. I hope that those honourable members who made a number of criticisms about matters covered by those principles will take the trouble to read my explanation. The principles have existed for many years and have been accepted by successive governments. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $90,774,000. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Oilseeds Levy Collection and Research Bill 1977 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr 
Deputy Speaker, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Government did announce in the Budget Speech that the special provisions relating to tuberculosis pensioners would no longer apply in the main. The then Minister issued a Press release that evening, setting out the detail. Since then I have had two discussions with representatives of the Federated TB Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen's Association. That Association has proposed to the Government that it should be given more time to put its case. The Government has decided that the Association should be given sufficient time to do that. In fairness to the organisation and to the 7,300 veterans and their dependants who would be affected, the Government has agreed that the Bill will not be introduced in the Budget sittings. 
Successive governments have reviewed the operations of the Defence Service Homes Corporation. In making their decisions from time to time, usually at Budget time, they have had to weigh the advantages that they could give in terms of the amount of money that could be provided in the Budget each year, the amount of the concessional rates and the categories of persons to which they would make loans available. In coming to that conclusion and in looking at the overall picture, they have decided to keep the level at the levels announced from time to time. However, I will take notice of the import of the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, so that when the matter is next reviewed it can be borne in mind and a comparison can be made with the lending policies of other institutions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Departmental staffing information is collected at the end of each month for management purposes. The following information is, therefore, providedfor 30 December 1975, not 13 December 1975, as requested. 
At 30 December 1975 the Department of Veterans' Affairs employed 1 1, 105 full-time staff, ( 10,538 operative and 567 inoperative) and 535 part-time staff. 
At 30 June 1976, the Department employed 10,901 full-time staff, (10,316 operative and 585 inoperative) and 572 part-time staff. 
At 30 April 1977, following the transfer of Defence Service Homes and War Graves Administration to the Department of Veterans' Affairs, the Department employed 11,878 full-time staff, (11,382 operative and 496 inoperative) and 628 part-time staff. 
There were 424 effective vacancies which is 3.38 per cent of the total establishment at 30 May 1 977. 
to (5) The information requested is not kept by my Department in the form sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. This has been the case since this benefit was granted by the former Labor Government in 1 975. 
In view of the Government's policy of keeping increases in public expenditure to a minimum, I do not propose to seek Government approval to vary the present arrangements at this point of time. 
AUS Student Travel Pry Ltd  (Question No. 1331) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information is not kept in the precise form requested by the honourable member. No distinction is made in the table below on the one hand between eligible ex-servicemen and other eligible patients (for example, war widows) nor on the other between ineligible ex-servicemen and other community patients. 
The table shows the position as at 14 September 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sustenanace Allowance is payable, under regulation 71 of the Repatriation Regulations, in respect of any period during which a veteran is prevented from working through the necessities of treatment for an incapacity accepted as being service-related. It is also payable, under regulation 72, when a veteran cannot work because of medical investigation of a pension claim he has made or of disability for which he receives a pension. 
Sustenance Allowance takes the form of a payment which, together with any disability pension in payment, is equal to either the level of the 100 per cent General Rate pension or the Special (T. &amp; P.I.) Rate pension, as applicable. 
A veteran who is prevented from working due to the necessities of out-patient treatment for a disability accepted as service-related, treatment or institutional care in consequence of venereal disease contracted during war service or waiting for the supply or repair of artificial limbs or other surgical aids and appliances which are necessary because of an incapacity which is service-related, is paid sustenance allowance at the lower rate. 
If a veteran has a wife (and/or children) an additional amount is payable to him, equal to the 100 per cent General 
Rate(s) for the dependant(s) or the 100 per cent General Rate(s) less any pension(s) payable to the dependant(s). 
A veteran who has received out-patient treatment for period in excess of 28 days, or is receiving authorised inpatient treatment at a hospital or similar institution, for an incapacity accepted as service-related is paid sustenance allowance at the higher rate. This rate continues to be paid to a veteran during convalescence after he ceases to receive inpatient treatment 
The current rates of the 100 per cent General Rate pension and the Special Rate pension payable to a veteran are $34.05 per week and $90. 1 5 per week respectively. The 100 per cent General Rate for a wife is $4.05 per week and $1.38 per week for each eligible child. These rates also apply to dependants of Special Rate pensioners. 
There are of course a number of procedures which must be followed when applications are made for a totally and permanently incapacitated pension and indeed for other disability pensions. The honourable member would be aware, I think, of the medical examinations that are necessary, the appraisal by officers of the Repatriation Commission and the rights of appeal that people have to the Boards and other Tribunals. The latter will soon be taken over by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. There are many steps- I would be pleased to provide the honourable member with a full list of those steps- which are time consuming. If he has in mind a particular case, I hope he will draw it to my attention and I will certainly have the matter examined. As to the matter of sustenance allowance to which he referred the honourable member would be aware, I think, of decisions announced at Budget time. The Government proposes, and is having effected by regulation, that the sustenance allowance be replaced by a loss of earnings allowance so that where there is loss by qualified persons there will be compensation, but not in other cases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5) To comply with the requirements of the relevant legislation, the annual reports of the Australian Housing Corporation to be laid before each House of the Parliament were required to be accompanied by financial statements in a form approved by the Treasurer and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. The form of the financial statements has not yet been approved. Consequently, it has not been possible to table annual reports in satisfaction of the statutory requirements. 
For the information of the Parliament, interim reports for 1974- 75 were tabled on 30 September and 2 October 1975 and an interim report for 1975-76 was tabled on 25 August 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are eight libraries in the Department of Veterans ' Affairs. The locations are as follows: 
I am glad to have an opportunity to comment on the matters raised by the honourable member, because I have received a few letters along the same lines. Clearly, some groups are not fully aware of the whole position. Although there has been some rationalisation in three or four areas in the last two years, I emphasise that it has been handled with humanity and restraint. The Government's whole two-year record has to be recognised. It is a good record. Total expenditure on repatriation benefits has risen from approximately $690m in 1974-75 to $ 1 ,  1 00m in the current year. 
Further, as promised, the Government has committed itself to a continuing and separate government department for repatriation matters, expanding it to include the defence service homes scheme and war graves functions. Whether there would remain a separate department was of considerable concern to many people. The Government has committed itself to keeping the repatriation hospital system separate. Much concern has been expressed in recent years about the need for that. There has been a considerable work program. In the current year $23m has been made available for hospital development in the States and $28m will be available for smaller works, repairs and maintenance. 
The biggest benefit of all is that for the first time disability pensions and service pensions have been automatically indexed to increases in the consumer price index, with the result that the rise in pension payments has been from $477m in 1974-75 to $766m in the current year. In other words, because of this automatic indexing of these two categories of pension, over the period there will be a 60 per cent increase- an increase of no less than $289m. There is a need to keep an eye on the big things, because much has been done. I will write to the honourable member setting out details of further benefits and will confirm policies adopted by the Government during that period.  Mr Speaker,  I have a schedule of expenditure programs of the Department of Veterans' Affairs over this two year period. To make the position clear to all I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) The Budget proposals to change the repatriation legislation for pulmonary tuberculosis, set out in my predecessor's Press release of 16 August 1977, will not be made during the present session of Federal Parliament. Introduction of the legislation has been delayed at the request of the Federated T.B. Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen's Association. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From the inception of the Defence Service Homes Scheme to 30 June 1977, total capital expenditure was $2,0 10.5m and total repayments of principal and interest amounted to $l,596.7m. 
Eleven months in respect of loans for the purchase of new or previously occupied homes; this was introduced from 1 August 1975. There is no waiting period for loans for the construction of homes. 
A survey of applicants during the June quarter of 1977 revealed that the average loan was$ 1 4, 1 73. 
Between 14 and 15 years. 
The answer to the honourable members 's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister representing the Prime Minister to Senate Question No. 11 16. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts expended on fares and allowance, excluding car hire, in 1976-77 are set out below. For comparison I have incorporated figures for the two full financial years of the previous Government Ie. 1973-74 and 1974-75: 
Overseas travel in 1973-74, $10,335; 1974-75, $36,251; 1976-77, $30,188. 
Domestic travel 1973-74, $442,887; 1974-75, $623,589; 1976-77, $558,608. 
The percentages of the Department's expenditure on travel and subsistence, excluding car hire, were: 
Overseas 1973-74, 2 per cent; 1974-75, 5 per cent; 1976-77, 5 percent. 
Domestic 1973-74, 98 percent; 1974-75, 95 percent; 1976-77,95 percent 
Assistance to Aboriginal Community at Lockridge, Western Australia  (Question No. 1674) 
I did not hear the report on the news this morning so of course I cannot comment on it. Perhaps I could make the point to the honourable gentleman that in trying to make comparisons it is easy to get matters out of context. I remind him that in the last four years, Australia has reduced its tariffs by 30 per cent right across the board. But more important than that is the amount of trade which flows over the tariff. If we look at that flow by countries that export to Australia, we find that it is quite a significant amount. I have had the opportunity recently of pointing that out to some of the European Economic Community countries. There are more methods of protection than tariffs. Before criticising a statement, it is necessary to examine the statistics to see what they cover, and to see what the total picture is, and not just pick out an aspect of it. 
I think my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in an answer to a question asked last year indicated that there must be some balancing between competing interests within Australia. With respect to the results of devaluation, as the honourable member will be aware, some compensation details were announced in the House. In my answer to a question this morning I indicated that the amount of flow is important when one is talking about relative levels between Australia and other countries. This is a difficult matter because there are competing interests within Australia. I do not have the percentage calculation to which the honourable member referred in my mind so I will obtain that information and write to him. 
by leave- I report to the House on behalf of the Government on progress in negotiations between Australia and the European Communities, better known to us as the EEC. All aspects of our relationship with the EEC are important. But the special aspect of that relationship which is causing great strains between Australia and the EEC is that of trade. A united Europe is a potent force in world affairs and for world peace. Australia has traditional ties with Europe that cannot lightly be set aside. We must work to an improvement of relationships. Yet unless Europe yields on trade, anger and frustration will be predominant on Australia's part. 
Trade- access to overseas markets- is vital to Australia. We are efficient producers of agricultural products. By 'efficient' I mean that Australian primary products are genuinely low cost and high quality without significant government subsidy. Yet the EEC is denying us the opportunity, the right, to compete in its markets. Worse, the EEC is disposing of the surpluses caused by its policies at heavily subsidised prices on third markets in which we would otherwise sell our products. 
Let me put some dimensions on the problem. The EEC is the biggest trading bloc in the world. It has a population of 260 million persons. It accounts for about 40 per cent of world trade. Total extra EEC imports in 1976-77 on a ci.f. basis were $166.4 billion of which $A2.3 billion was from Australia. Total extra EEC exports on a f.o.b. basis were $149.3 billion of which $A2.6 billion was to Australia. While we have a favourable trade balance with some member states, we have a trade deficit with the EEC as a whole measured on a consistent f.o.b.-f.o.b. basis of some $A826m. When account is taken of invisibles the situation is even worse. We have a current account balance of payments deficit with the EEC as a whole of $A 1,941m. The Government is not arguing for bilateral balancing in trade with the EEC. Australia is a multilateral trader. But we are concerned at the imbalance- and the growing imbalance- of trading opportunities. 
When the EEC was expanded from the original six countries to its present nine countries by the addition of the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland, all Australians expected trade in our agricultural products to suffer. All acknowledged the need for us to seek new markets. That we have done and that we shall continue to do. But nobody on either side of the House anticipated the severity of the effects on our trade with the EEC. And surely nobody thought that the EEC would compete with us through its heavily subsidised agricultural surpluses in those new markets to which we have turned. I think it is true to say that Australia is the country worst affected by the enlargement of the EEC and its common agricultural policy. It should not be forgotten that half our exports are agricultural products. 
The decline in Australia's access to the Community's domestic market for food products is well illustrated by the following figures. In 1972-73 Australia exported 427,000 tonnes of sugar, 32,200 tonnes of butter and 110,000 tonnes of beef to the EEC. The application of the EEC's common agricultural policy to United Kingdom imports has wiped out our trade in sugar and butter to the EEC. Moreover by 1976-77 our exports of beef as a result of the imposition of increasingly protective mechanisms under the common agricultural policy had fallen to about 10,000 tonnes. Our main exports to the EEC are basically wool and minerals which, because they are not available in sufficient quantities from EEC sources of supply, do not face significant trade restrictions in the EEC. There has been some growth in exports of these products in recent years, but they do not provide a sufficient base for development of proper trading relationships with the EEC. We cannot accept the argument that growth in these areas should be acknowledged to offset losses in our trading opportunities in agricultural products. It cannot be regarded as fair trade when almost all our many agricultural products are excluded from the largest trading bloc in the world. 
So far, our concerns have focused on agriculture. But there are ominous developments elsewhere. The EEC has taken measures that could have the effect of excluding steel imports except from countries that negotiate an agreement on prices and quantities. The Commission of the EEC has under consideration a subsidy on domestic steaming coal of about $12 per tonne. This commodity is produced cheaply in Australia and is one which we look forward to exporting to the EEC countries in growing quantities. What other exports may be involved? How far will these development go? Returning to agriculture, the policies of the EEC are based on unrealistically high domestic support prices underwritten by high variable levies on imports- usually amounting to de facto embargoes- and export subsidies. Such support prices are generally set well in excess of the ruling world market prices in order to maintain the incomes of the least efficient producers. Because the system is open-ended, there is nothing to stop efficient producers in the EEC from considerably expanding their production to take full advantage of the high support prices. The price support systems of the EEC are relatively inefficient at supporting the incomes of farmers in the greatest need as the benefits they confer are also available to efficient producers. 
Under such a system it is hardly surprising that the EEC finds itself with what has been called mountains of beef and butter and lakes of wine. In 1977 EEC stocks of beef, butter and wine were 424,000 tonnes, 500,000 tonnes, and 21.7 million hectolitres respectively. As a result of EEC support policies that have increased domestic production the net export availability of sugar in the EEC could be around 2.5 million tonnes in 1977-78. Under the EEC's agricultural system the rest of the world finds itself with great problems of restricted access and unfair competition. 
These policies force up the price of food to the EEC consumer, despite the concern of most governments of the member States about inflation. They drive down world prices of commodities, in some cases well below economic costs. For instance, the EEC's subsidy on malt last year drove us out of markets in which we would have competed on normal commercial terms. The EEC's export subsidy on sugar is more than sugar's world price. Such subsidies disturb and disrupt world trade and the marketing opportunities of more competitive exporters. They make it impossible for competitiors to pursue rational investment policies- witness the plight of our beef industry following world encouragement to export- and they work against the EEC's desire for security of supply when its domestic production, through drought or other adversity, fails to meet its demand. They cost EEC taxpayers enormous sums of intervention buying, storage and loss selling and force the EEC's consumers to purchase food at higher prices than they would otherwise have to pay. They have shifted the burden of adjustment in agriculture to efficient producers outside the EEC and they have greatly reduced the efficiency with which the world 's agricultural resources are put to use. 
These are the substance of our concerns. What can we do about them? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  tell us it is all too hard. They say we will not get our beef or our steel into the EEC. They say we should therefore give up the EEC as a market. We might as well put our heads in the sand. As a government we cannot and will not ignore the world's largest trading bloc. We cannot ignore heavily subsidised competition in new or developing markets. We cannot ignore the spread of special measures by the EEC beyond agriculture into steel and perhaps steaming coal, possibly zinc and who knows what next. The Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition give us only counsels of despair. They are essentially negative. 
The former Prime Minister tells us he discussed a 'framework agreement' in Brussels. He tells us nothing about his advocacy for Australia and our problems. We are ready to be convinced that a framework agreement would be of real benefit to Australia. But we seek substance and not formalities. We are getting on with the job of improving trading opportunities for our exporters. Let me remind the House of what has been done. In June last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  agreed with the  President  of the EEC Commission,  Mr Roy  Jenkins, that there should be wide-ranging discussions between the two parties about the totality of relations between Australia and the EEC with a view to a better understanding and a more meaningful trade and commercial relationship. As an indication of Australia's real commitment to these discussions- conceived at the highest political level- and to their satisfactory outcome, the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator was established in July 1977 and my predecessor, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  had first discussions with all the member States and the Commission of the EEC in September and October last. He left with the Commission of the EEC a Note setting out Australia's proposals on beef, sheep meat, dairy products, canned and fresh fruit, export subsidies, tariffs on processed mineral products and international commodity arrangements. He tabled that Note in Parliament on 1 November 1977. 
The Australian Government signalled its continuing determination after the 1977 election by establishing the Ministry of the Special Trade Representative. Additional significance was taken on by linking its portfolio responsibilities with the role of Minister Assisting the Minister for Trade and Resources. In the last few weeks, in my role as Minister for Special Trade Negotiations, I have visited the Commission of the EEC and several member States- Denmark, Italy, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom, the timing of the election making it preferable to visit France later. Denmark has a particular significance as  President  of the Council of Ministers until mid-year. I took up Australia's general concerns in each capital. I emphasised to Ministers and Commissioners the desperate situation of the Australian beef industry, accentuated by the drought, and stressed that the worsening of the industry's position added to the urgency of the proposals put in October. I told Commissioners of the grave disquiet that the measures on steel had caused us. I made it clear that Australia does not want endless debate. We want meaningful results. We want to resolve our present problems and we want to lay the foundation for a fruitful and continuing dialogue. We want to foreclose the possibility of shocks and jolts to our relationship like those on steel. 
I was well received in Brussels and elsewhere. Discussions were direct and courteous. In Brussels I had fruitful discussions with the  President  of the Commission,  Mr Jenkins,  the VicePresident concerned with external relations,  Mr Haferkamp,  the commissioner concerned with agriculture,  Mr Gundelach,  the commissioner concerned with energy,  Dr Brunner,  the commissioner concerned with industry, Viscount Davignon, and the commissioner concerned with the Community budget,  Mr Tugendhat.  I was impressed by the seriousness with which each of them approached Australia's concerns. I am heartened by their attitudes but do not suggest for a moment that we should not continue to press our case consistently and with vigour. I do not expect all our problems to be dispelled overnight. Rather, I see a continuing period of hard negotiation to redress the present imbalance of trading opportunities and to head off future problems. We know there are forces within the Community working against the excesses of the Common Agricultural Policy. But we cannot rely on them to bite deeply or quickly. We must act firmly and decisively now. 
Our approach has been confirmed by the support expressed by wide sections of rural industry, most harmed by Community action, and now by the steel industry. I have also been heartened by my recent discussions with Ambassador Strauss in Washington, the United States Special Trade Representative, who confirmed to me the United States Government's intention to press strongly in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations in Geneva for improved market access into the EEC for agricultural products, including, most importantly, beef. In that connection my role as Minister Assisting the Minister for Trade and Resources will involve me in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. While we are looking to the solution of our problems with the EEC in bilateral discussions, we recognise that the resolution of some of those problems will be in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. 
We must make progress with the EEC, not for selfish reasons, not for narrow interests, but because it is vital that the stand we take on trading relationships rejects the notion of isolationism and gives reasonable market access to efficient competitors. We and the EEC must bear in mind that our ability to provide an expanding market for the EEC's exports is largely influenced by the EEC's willingness to provide reasonable access for our imports. It is noteworthy that while the EEC has virtually closed its doors to, amongst other things, our cheese, we are importing 4,000 tonnes of its heavily-subsidised cheese each year. 
While we have seen our own trading opportunities in the EEC market for food products virtually eliminated, we have continued to allow reasonable access for EEC products to the Australian market. I ask: How long can anyone expect such a situation to endure? How long can it be before we react? There are limits to patience and understanding. It is fashionable in the EEC and domestically to criticise Australia as being protectionist against the EEC's products. I strongly reject such criticism as being relevant here. Let us look at the facts. 
Exporters from the EEC face comparatively few restrictions in the Australian market- only a narrow range of Australian imports of interest to the EEC are subject to tariff quotas or import licensing. Even where such restraints exist arrangements generally have been made to allow imports to be maintained at levels comparable with those which prevailed in the years immediately preceding their imposition. That we have not erected barriers to trade on the scale of the 
EEC's Common Agricultural Policy can be seen from the growth in our imports from the EEC. Between 1972-73 and 1975-76 over imports of manufactures from the EEC increased by 67 per cent, from $Al,212m to $A2,024m. By contrast our exports of foodstuffs to the EEC have dropped by more than 80 per cent over the past four years. 
A comparison between passenger motor vehicles and beef provides a graphic illustration of the relative openness of the Australian and EEC markets for sensitive products. Australia allows imports of completely built up passenger motor vehicles up to 20 per cent of the market. The only reliable access arrangement under which Australian beef producers are allowed to compete on normal commercial terms in the EEC market is limited to less than one per cent of total Community consumption. On a whole range of commodities, Australian producers of food products are virtually excluded from the Community market. 
The point is that tariffs are not the only protective measures available and, what is more, it is the amount of trade that flows over the tariff, or other measures, that is the true determinant of the protectionism or otherwise of a country or trading bloc. All these matters and the proposals left by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  I have arranged to take up with the member states and Commission of the EEC in April, possibly extending into May. It is probable that the EEC Commissioner concerned with agriculture,  Mr Gundelach,  will be visiting Australia in late May or June. If he decides to make a visit we would welcome him warmly and strive to advance with him in the improvement of relationships. 
I emphasise that our approach is not negative or, on the other hand, one of boundless optimism. We recognise that our negotiations will be hard and that they will be long; but we will not withdraw. We will work to establish a continuing dialogue with the EEC that will place Australia 's trading relationship with the EEC on a wider, sounder and more equitable footing. 1 present the following paper: 
Australia's Trade Relations with the European Economic Community, Ministerial Statement, 16 March 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
As the honourable gentleman will know, the Government maintains in each capital city of Australia a general repatriation hospital and a number of other hospitals for the use of veterans. Veterans have priority of admission to those hospitals, particularly the general hospitals. A significant percentage of non-entitled veterans known as 'community patients' is admitted. There are good reasons for that, which ought to be known to the House. Those reasons are that, by having a broader range of patients in types of treatment and in age it is possible to recruit doctors and nursing staff of a higher calibre and to utilise to a more efficient degree technical and highly specialised, very expensive equipment. 
The honourable gentleman may have in mind the Concord Repatriation General Hospital which is in an area of Sydney many miles from any other general hospital and which the Government believes can offer a particular community service. But there preference is given to entitled veterans. That is clear and it has always been the case. It is necessary for the hospital administration to admit into wards patients who have to receive special treatment, such as psychiatric, surgical or intensive care treatment. That is the position with every general hospital in Australia. Obviously a medical judgment is involved. The position could hardly be otherwise. Where a veteran ought to be located, whether he should be admitted to a ward with other veterans and whether he favours that idea, are very much matters of viewpoint. Exservicemen have different views on the subject. Indeed some have expressed to me the view that they do not wish to enter repatriation hospitals. The Government sees a need to keep a spread and to admit some members of the community to repatriation hospitals. There will be no diminution in the services offered to entitled veterans. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)No 
(a),  (b) and  (c)  Yes. A parcel of 1.2 hectares of undeveloped land at Mulgrave,  Victoria,  has been sold for $129,314 to the City of Waverley, Victoria. 371 separate blocks in various estates have been sold to individuals. Prices ranged from $2,346 to $ 13,500. 
(d) and (e). The Defence Service Homes Corporation has developed 21 hectares of land at Campbelltown, New South Wales, with an estimated average cost of $7,500 per block and 5.7 hectares of land at Wantirna, Victoria, at  an  estimated average cost of $ 1 1 ,300 per block. 
Pensions paid by Department of Veterans' Affairs  (Question No.  23) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 2,878 people in the Division of Hughes, and 4,338 in the Division of Cook in receipt of pensions from the Department of Veterans 'Affairs. The numbers of persons in receipt of each kind of pension are shown in the table below. It should be noted that these figures are not mutually exclusive, as some pensioners are in receipt of more than one type of pension. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1-7) The Department of the Special Trade Representative (formerly the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator) was established on 17 July 1977. No expenditure has been incurred on advertising and services by the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) $24,300 (this includes an amount of $12,000 for Darwin Cyclone compensation advertising). 
$36,800. 
$ 107,400. 
$75,900. 
Advertising by the Department of Veterans' Affairs is primarily concerned with the provision of resources functional to the Department and maintaining the necessary liaison with its clientele. In the periods concerned there was additional advertising for the filling of staff vacancies, due to recruitment difficulties. The additional cost was: 
June-July 1976- Medical Officer vacancies in Queensland were advertised in Britain- approximate cost $1,000. 
May-July 1976- Nursing staff vacancies in Victoria and South Australia were advertised in Britain and New Zealand- approximate cost $ 1 , 700. 
March 1976- Advertisements placed for the postgraduate course in Geriatric Nursing held at Repatriation General Hospital, Concord, New South Wales- approximate cost $400. 
In addition to the amounts listed in (1 ) above, expenditure was incurred for Departmental publications for the purpose of informing Departmental clientele about the benefits available to veterans. The cost was: 
$4,000. 
$44,200. 
$27,000. 
$20,300. 
Funds allocated are from Divisions 692-2-11, 690-2-07 and 690-2-02. 
No advertising agencies or consultants were used. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Estimated expenditure for 1977-78 against the cost of advertising in part ( 1 ) is $127,000 and the estimated expenditure for 1977-78 of advertising by way of internal publications for promotion of Government programs is $52,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of the Special Trade Representative (formerly the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator) was established on 1 7 July 1977. 
Not applicable. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 3; (b) None 
Fares $160. 
Travelling and other allowances $ 1 ,056. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) None. (b) None. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No officer of the Department of Veterans' Affairs or from instrumentalities associated with the portfolio of Veterans ' Affairs provided services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Sydney. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of the Department of Veterans ' Affairs were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are no staff employed on tea making and distribution in my Depanment. The service is provided by the Depanment of Trade and Resources on a common services basis. 
) No costs were incurred in 1 976-77 for either salaries or other charges in the provision of tea services for my Depanment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Delays are primarily related to the patient's medical condition. The normal delay in weeks (from application to completion of manufacture) in the provision of an artificial limb is of the order of: 
Any patient whose need of a limb is medically assessed as warranting a priority would be fitted well inside the times quoted. 
'Canadian hips', which are usually fitted as the result of massive trauma or surgery, are very dependent upon the ability and speed with which the patient recovers and the availability of an artisan who is skilled in the fitting and manufacture of such a complicated prosthesis. 
The normal delays ( in weeks ) for ' Canadian hips ' are: 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I require the debate to be extended to enable me to reply to a matter raised during the debate. I am sorry if I take some small time from honourable members, but this might be the only occasion for me to report on recent visits to Australian war cemeteries and to respond to the comments made by the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack).  I advise the House that as Minister for Veterans' Affairs I visited the war cemeteries and Australian war memorials at Ypres, Zonnebeke and nearby sites on 2 March 1978, and those at Villers-Brettoneux on Anzac Day two weeks ago. There I took part in the Anzac Day ceremony and other ceremonies and laid wreaths at other memorials. 
In Belgium I visited the Tyne Cot cemetery at Passchendale and the Australian Fifth Division memorial at Polygon Wood, the memorial at Hill 60 and the war museum at Ypres town hall. With the Burgomaster of Ypres I laid wreaths at the Belgium war memorial and at Menin Gate, where the last Post is sounded every day. I made a presentation to the Burgomaster of Ypres, who has received Australian visitors kindly for many years. I also visited the small cemetery at Birr Crossroads, where my mother's brother is buried. I met  Mr R.  G. Wall, the Commonwealth War Graves Commission representative in North West Europe, and other War Graves Commission officers in London. During my visit in April to France I took the opportunity to spend Anzac Day at Villers-Brettoneux, in whose liberation Australian forces played a major part 60 years ago. There is one of Australia 's major war memorials in Europe, where many Australians are buried. It is a site of great symbolic significance for Australia and its friends. The memorial has been restored after having been extensively damaged in World War II. 
Although many years have elapsed since the Great War battles, the Australian soldiers have not been forgotten. At each site I visited I found the graves and memorials very well tended and cared for and the people greet Australians with real warmth and friendship. Australians visit the Villers-Brettoneux memorial each Anzac Dayindeed, throughout the year- and each year the local people take part in the commemoration of Anzac Day. They helped to create a museum which is very impressive and moving. On behalf of Australia I made some presents of 1917 photographs and road signs to add to their collection. A party of 70 French school children - 
Order! The Minister will resume his seat. The honourable member for Shortland may take his point of order. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are 5,857 people in the Division of Kingston in receipt of pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs. 
The number of persons in receipt of each type of pension is shown in the table below. It should be noted that these figures are not mutually exclusive, as some pensioners are in receipt of more than one type of pension. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
The provision of the Defence Service Homes Act apply equally to men and women. Accordingly, ex-servicemen and women are required to meet the same qualifying conditions. 
I mo ve: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Loan Act 1977 to increase by $300m the amount which may be borrowed for defence purposes to meet a prospective increase in the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit for 1977-78. In the second reading speech on the Loan Bill 1977 the relationship between the overall Budget deficit and a potential deficit in the Consolidated Revenue fund was explained in some detail. Honourable members were informed that a Loan Bill is the simplest and the traditional means of providing appropriate legislative authority for avoiding a Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit, by enabling defence expenditure to be reallocated from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund. Such a method has been adopted for many years by successive governments. 
At the time of the Loan Bill 1977 the Budget estimates envisaged a prospective deficit in the 
Consolidated Revenue Fund of $90 lm. The Loan Bill sought authority for borrowings for the purpose of financing defence expenditures to a limit of $ 1,100m, to provide a relatively small margin over the estimated Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit. At the same time, it was explained that the estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit was inevitably a qualified one and that the actual figure would be affected by unforeseen developments during the year which would cause departures from the Budget estimates of receipts and expenditure of the Fund. Because of a number of unforeseen developments it now appears possible that the earlier authority could prove to be insufficient, given the inherent uncertainties which still surround many of the estimates. Even at this stage, we cannot be certain of the extent to which it will be necessary to use the additional authority now sought. There is always some uncertainty about a figure which is, in effect, the residual of the receipts and expenditure of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, both of which are now, of course, very large aggregates. Minor variations in such aggregates can produce relatively very large changes in the residual. 
This Bill seeks Parliament's authority to charge up to an additional $300m of defence expenditure in 1977-78 to the Loan Fund, bringing the total to $ 1,400m, and to endorse the necessary increase in borrowing authority. I emphasise that the effect of the Bill is simply to permit the reallocation of defence expenditure between two of the funds which record the Commonwealth 's financial transactions. The Bill does not authorise any defence expenditure over and above that approved and appropriated by the Parliament in the Appropriation Bills. Borrowings under this Bill, as with previous similar legislation, will be for the purpose of financing defence expenditure and will not, therefore, require approval from the Australian Loan Council. On present indications it is our belief that the existing authority, which enables defence expenditure to be reallocated to the Loan Fund, will be fully availed of by the end of this month. It is therefore essential that an additional authority, in the form proposed in this Bill, be approved quickly. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill which is before the House has two main parts. The first concerns the alterations to the International Monetary Agreements Act which are necessitated by the second amendment of the International Monetary Fund's Articles of Agreement, and certain minor alterations to that Act which need to be made for other reasons. The second part of the Bill will empower the Government to consent to the increase in Australia's quota subscription to the Fund proposed under the IMF's sixth general review of quotas, and to take up an increase in Australia's subscription to the authorised capital stock of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In March 1976 the Board of Governors of the IMF adopted a resolution approving increases in quotas of member countries of the Fund, and in April 1976 the Board of Governors adopted a resolution approving wide-ranging amendments to the Fund's Articles of Agreement, which was called the second amendment since an earlier scheme of amendments, related to establishment of the special drawing right, was adopted in 1969. Following approval by the Board of Governors both resolutions have been put to member countries for their individual consent, with members being required to give or withhold consent to the second amendment as a whole, and to give or withhold consent to the quota increase proposed for their own country by the sixth general review of quotas. 
The second amendment entered into force on 1 April 1978, when it had been assented to by the majority of members specified under the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Since then the amended Articles of Agreement have governed the Fund in its dealings with all members, including those members which had not by that time given their assent to them. It remains, of course, for member countries such as Australia to pass legislation giving the Fund's amended Articles effect under their own law, and that purpose will be fulfilled by the present Bill. The majority required to give effect to the sixth general review of quotas was reached at the same time as that for the second amendment. This has meant that those members that have consented and paid the additional subscription involved may now operate on the basis of an increased quota while the quotas of other members including Australia remain unchanged. With the passage of this Bill, the Government will be able both to consent to the increased quota for Australia and to make the consequent payment. 
Following the approval of the sixth general review of quotas by the IMF Board of Governors, the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved a resolution entitling most member countries, including Australia, to take up specified increases in their subscription to the capital stock of the Bank so as to maintain approximately the long-standing relativities between IMF quotas and IBRD subscriptions. The purchase by the Bank's members of additional capital stock requires the making of agreements between each member and the Bank, under the normal terms of which 10 per cent of the additional subscription is paid in and the balance remains on call. This Bill will provide authority for the Treasurer to make an agreement under which Australia will purchase an additional 779 shares in the capital stock at the Bank under those terms. 
I wish now to comment on the second amendment of the Fund's Articles. The task of updating the Fund's Articles of Agreement commenced in 1974, following completion of the study of reform of the international monetary system by the Fund's committee of twenty. When, after a two-year process of consideration and negotiation in which Australia participated actively, the amendments to the Articles were settled within the Fund's Executive Board and presented to the Governors of the Fund for consideration, the Treasurer of that time cast Australia's votes in favour of approving them. The final outcome, while inevitably reflecting compromise between the differing interests and views of members, involves a comprehensive revision of the Fund 's operating arrangements, in the light of the substantial changes in the international monetary system which have occurred over the past decade. Among its more important features, the second amendment introduces new and flexible provisions dealing with international exchange arrangements, a gradual reduction in the role of gold in the international monetary system, changes in the characteristics and expansion of the uses of the special drawing right that are intended to enhance its status as an international reserve asset, and the simplification and expansion of the Fund's financial operations and transactions. 
The changes relating to international exchange arrangements involve a recognition that the international monetary system has been transformed from the par value system, defined at the Bretton Woods conference in 1944 and embodied in the Fund's original Articles, to a looser system of floating exchange rates for the major countries. The essence of amended Article IV, which deals with exchange rates, is to abandon requirements as to the exchange arrangements adopted by member countries and instead to define principles which members are committed to follow in their exchange rate policy. It sets out the general principles for the orderly operation of the international monetary system and for surveillance by the Fund of the exchange rate and external policies of individual member countries. Article IV recognises that stability in exchange markets is largely dependent on the adoption of appropriate domestic economic policies by member countries. Agreement on the principles involved was reached last year following discussions in the Fund's Executive Board and Interim Committee. It is, of course, in the interest of all countries that members of the IMF avoid the adoption of disruptive exchange rate practices, such as competitive devaluations or other manipulations of exchange rates, that are mutually self-defeating and adversely affect levels of economic activity in the world. The Government strongly supports the principles on which this amended Article is based. 
A second set of changes to the Fund's Articles concerns the role of gold. The second amendment will reduce the role of gold in the international monetary system at large and in the operations of the Fund. Gold will no longer be the Fund 's numeraire or unit of account for expressing the values of currencies used in Fund transactions and of the Fund's special drawing rights. The amendments provide, among other things, for the abolition of an official gold price and for the avoidance of fixing of gold prices by official authorities. They will also end all obligatory payments in gold within the Fund. The amendments provide also for the disposal of 50 million ouncesequivalent to one third- of the Fund's gold, and for the possible disposal of the remainder of the Fund's gold. The disposal of gold by the Fund has already begun, under arrangements agreed to in August 1975 and January 1976 by the Interim Committee. Over a four year period, 25 million fine ounces of gold will be restituted by the Fund to members in proportion to their quotas, at the official gold price of 35 SDR per ounce, which is of course only a fraction of the current market price for gold. Australia has so far had 284,600 ounces of gold restored to it, through transactions which took place in January 1977 and January 1978. Under the same arrangements, another 25 million fine ounces of the Fund's gold are being sold for the benefit of developing countries. 
A third set of changes made through the amended Articles is a concomitant of these changes concerning gold. The special drawing right -or SDR- was created in 1969 with the aim of establishing a controlled supplement to the global supply of reserve assets. Through the second amendment to the Articles members have subscribed to the principle of making the Fund 's SDR the principal reserve asset of the international monetary system. It is well understood, however, that this will be an evolutionary process; the second amendment explicitly requires that special drawing rights may only be allocated if there is a global need to supplement the existing stock of reserve assets, and in such a manner as will avoid exacerbating excess demand and world inflation. 
The main provisions concerning SDR in the amended Articles are a liberalisation of the conditions governing transactions in SDR among members of the Fund, a broadening of the range of operations within the Fund for which SDR may be used, and greater flexibility in the determination of the rate of interest on SDR holdings. The Australian government has consistently held the view that a necessary condition if the status of the SDR as a reserve asset is to be enhanced is an increase in the yield accruing to holders visavis the yield on established reserve assets such as the United States Dollar. In this context it is interesting to note that a decision was made at the recent meeting of the Interim Committee in Mexico City to raise the interest yield on SDR. The remaining changes involved in the second amendment to the Fund's articles, provide among other things, for the simplification and expansion of the Fund 's financial transactions, in particular those conducted through the General Resources Department of the Fund, and for the possible establishment of a twenty-member council as a new organ of decision making in the Fund. 
I now turn to the alterations to the International Monetary Agreements Act which are incorporated in this Bill insofar as they relate to the amended articles. With only one exception, they are alterations required to make the Act consistent with the amended articles of agreement of the Fund and to facilitate operations which are provided for in the amended articles, particularly those involving SDR. The exception is that this Bill provides for amending the Act so as to empower the Treasurer to issue securities in connection with payments required to be made by Australia to the Fund and Bank. Under the present Act this power is conferred on the Governor-General and not on the Treasurer. The change is proposed on the ground of administrative efficiency. There is no question of constitutional or legal principle involved, since the change will make practice in this matter consistent with that in other situations where the Treasurer is empowered to authorise the issue of securities. 
The second amendment of the Fund 's articles of agreement does not alter in any significant way the IMF'S basic functions of assisting member countries in balance of payments difficulties by the provision of short to mediumterm finance and by the provision of guidance to members in formulating appropriate corrective policies. The fundamental policy commitment which members make through their membership of the Fund is to  overcome  their balance of payments difficulties without resort to restrictions on current international transactions, and thus to avoid damaging an open and prosperous world economic system. This basic function which the IMF performs is a valuable contribution to the functioning of a stable international monetary system, and I commend to the House the amendments of the Fund's articles which strengthen the fund and improve its efficiency. The Bill also concerns the important matters of additional Australian subscriptions to the IMF and the IBRD. Both the former and the amended articles provide for general reviews of quotas to be conducted, at intervals of not more than five years, to enable the size of the Fund to be expanded periodically if necessary, to keep step with the growth of international payments and the calls on the Fund's resources. The quota increases proposed for each member in the resolution in March 1976 to which I referred earlier would raise the total of present quotas, amounting to 29.2 billion SDR, to 39 billion SDR. 
The sixth general review of quotas provides for an increase in Australia's quota from 665 million SDR to a quota of 790 million SDR. The size of quota increases proposed for particular members is determined partly by reference to movements in such variables as trade, GDP, and reserves, and partly by a discretionary process through negotiation. The increase in Australia 's quota is somewhat less than adequate, having regard to the increases proposed for some other member countries of the Fund whose growth in income and trade has been no greater and in some cases less than Australia's. For this reason the Treasurer, at the time this was decided, abstained from voting on the resolution on quota increases put before the Fund's board of governors. But, having registered our point, it is now appropriate for Australia to take up the increase which has been proposed. 
The increase in Australia 's quota involves enlargement of Australia's potential drawing rights from the Fund which are available for use at a time of balance of payments need. It also involves a corresponding increase in the amount of foreign exchange Australia may be required to provide to finance drawings from the Fund by other members when Australia is in a strong balance of payments position. Any such calls on Australia's holdings of foreign exchange would, however, be offset by an increase in Australia's reserve position in the fund and no change in the level of Australia's international reserves would therefore be involved, although there would, of course, be an alteration in the composition of reserves. The increase in Australia's quota will also bring a corresponding increase in the number of votes Australia has in decision making within the Fund, although since our proposed quota increase under the sixth general review is less than proportional to the overall increase, Australia 's relative voting strength will be marginally reduced. The desirability of preserving our voting strength makes it the more necessary to consent to the quota increase proposed. 
I point out that the quota increase will have no effect on the Budget or on the level of Australia 's reserves. In accordance with the amended articles, the payment of the additional quota subscription will take the form of transferring to the Fund an amount of Australian currency equivalent to 125 million SDR, in the form of a non-negotiable non-interest-bearing promissory note. I conclude with a brief mention of the proposed increased Australian subscription to the capital stock of the IBRD. As I have already mentioned, the decision by the board of governors of the Bank, to approve an increase in the Bank's authorised capital stock, was taken so as to approximately maintain the long-standing relativities between IMF quotas and IBRD subscriptions. As a consequence, the increased subscription entitlements of member countries approximate to their relative quota increases in the IMF. The increases authorised for individual countries are shown in the attached table, which I ask leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805254_49_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805254_49_1.jpg"></graphic>

Many of the countries listed in this table have already taken up the additional shares to which they have become entitled. As I mentioned earlier, Australia is entitled to take up an additional 779 shares in the capital stock of the IBRD. The total commitment involved is about $US94m. However, 90 per cent of this amount will remain on call as security for the IBRD's own borrowing operations on world capital markets, and only 10 per cent, that is $US9.4m is actually payable. Of the latter sum, $US940,000 is payable in cash while the balance, $US8.46m, will be paid in the form of a promissory note which will be encashed in approximately equal instalments over four financial years commencing 1978-79. The IBRD is an effective and efficient institution in the provision of development assistance to developing countries, and it plays an important role in our region. This has been recognised by Australian governments over the years since the establishment of the Bank in 1947 by the consistent support Australia has given the Bank's activities. The proposed increase in the capital stock of the IBRD will assist the Bank in continuing its operations at an effective level and Australia's proposed subscription will serve to confirm our support of it. 
I commend this Bill to the House and draw the attention of honourable members to the desirability of early approval of the Bill in order to enable the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to exercise the proposed increased voting rights for Australia at the next regular elections of executive directors of the Fund and the Bank in September. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to provide some new exemptions and to change some existing exemptions for imported goods. The Bill has four main features: Firstly, it will give effect to the joint announcement by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 30 March 1978 that sunscreen preparations that provide effective protection from damaging ultra-violet rays would be exempted from sales tax. Drugs and medicines are already exempt and it is proposed that these sunscreen preparations should also be exempted because of their importance as a preventative health measure in the field of skin cancer, sunburn and general skin damage. 
To qualify for the new exemption, a preparation will need to meet two requirements. It will have to be put up and sold for use as a substance to be applied to the skin for the purpose of screening out solar ultra-violet rays. Also, there must be in force in respect of the preparation a certificate given by the Director-General of Health, or his appointee, certifying that the product is a preparation that provides an acceptable level of protection from solar ultra-violet rays. The efficiency of sunscreen preparations in filtering out damaging rays has already been the subject of regular testing arranged by the Australian Government Analyst. The results of these tests will provide useful data for the classification of products already tested. 
The second of the Bill's main features is the restoration of several sales tax exemptions relating to imported goods. Certain sales tax exemptions which are complementary to customs exemptions refer expressly to the relevant customs tariff provisions. Due to changes in the tarin' some of the sales tax exemptions have become inoperative and it is proposed that they be restored. The exemptions relate mainly to printed matter such as imported travel literature designed to promote travel overseas and certain imported catalogues, price lists and comparable printed matter which is not designed to advertise the sale of goods or services by persons in Australia. The Bill will also bring certain sales tax exemptions relating to goods imported by persons arriving in Australia into line with corresponding customs exemptions. These sales tax and customs provisions are normally kept in harmony to facilitate the clearance of travellers through Customs. The sales tax amendments now proposed arise because of changes that have been made to the complementary customs provisions. 
Both sales tax and customs duty exemptions apply where a passenger imports a vehicle or boat which has been owned and used overseas by the passenger for a period of 1 5 months before leaving for Australia. The customs law provides also that where a vehicle or boat has not been owned for 1 5 months, full duty is not payable unless the shortfall is more than 14 days. Where the shortfall is 14 days or less, duty is payable on a sliding scale which increases as the shortfall increases. A similiar cushioning period is now to be provided for sales tax purposes. At present the sales tax exemption for goods imported by persons arriving in Australia is limited to goods imported by passengers. Under the complementary customs exemption members of the crew of ships or aircraft, who are of Australian domicile, are entitled on a once-a-year basis to duty-free concessions similar to those available to passengers. A comparable sales tax exemption is now to be given. In the interests of economic administration, the law provides that sales tax and duty are not to be collected on imported goods where only small amounts of revenue are involved. The sales tax provision is to be altered to keep in step with the changes that have been made to the levels applicable for customs purposes. 
Finally, it is proposed by the Bill to give servicemen of Papua New Guinea, and certain civilians accompanying them, limited sales tax concessions for importation of personal effects, furniture, household goods and motor vehicles. The concessions, which are a little more liberal than those available to ordinary passengers arriving in Australia, are required in fulfilment of Australia's obligations under the Status of Forces Agreement between the governments of Australia and Papua New Guinea. The Bill also contains some amendments of a drafting nature. They are mainly concerned with bringing references to customs tariff provisions in sales tax exemptions into line with the current terms of the tariff. It is customary for sales tax changes to come into operation on the day following the introduction of the amending Bills and the Bill provides that the amendments now proposed are to be effective from tomorrow, 26 May 1978. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill in detail is being circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Ombudsman Act 1976 empowered the Commonwealth Ombudsman to investigate grievances by members of the public about administrative actions of officials and staff of Commonwealth departments, statutory authorities and other government agencies. Because of the responsibilities of the Commonwealth in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory it was necessary for the 
Ombudsman Act to ensure that residents of those Territories also had access to the Ombudsman in respect of matters that in the States would be directed to State ombudsmen. The Commonwealth Ombudsman's jurisdiction therefore currently extends to the actions of the Northern Territory Public Service. 
As part of the Northern Territory devolution package the Government approved the exclusion of the Northern Territory Public Service from the Ombudsman Act. This Bill excludes the Northern Territory Public Service from the Ombudsman Act with regard to transferred functions and facilitates the commencement of the Northern Territory Ombudsman. An Ombudsman (Northern Territory) Ordinance was passed by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on 30 November 1977 and it is intended that the commencement of the Ordinance be co-ordinated with the amendment of the Ombudsman Act. In line with the transfer of powers from the Commonwealth to the Northern Territory a smooth transition of responsibilities from the Commonwealth to the Northern Territory Ombudsman is most desirable and to this end the Bill contains appropriate transitional provisions to ensure, for example, the completion of investigations begun by the Commonwealth Ombudsman prior to the date of transition. The Commonwealth Ombudsman's jurisdiction in respect of administrative actions undertaken by Commonwealth officials in the Northern Territory will be maintained as it currently is in relation to the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
May I first remind honourable members of the important place the defence service homes scheme holds in the array of Commonwealth programs of assistance to various sections of the community. It is one of the longest standing programs; it originated from legislation passed in 1918, 60 years ago. Since its inception, approximately 340,000 people have been assisted to own their own home. The loans granted include more than 180,000 that are still being repaid. The gross outlays on assistance since the inception of the scheme exceed $2,000m. 
The principal purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Defence Service Homes Act 1918 to implement decisions taken by the Government in the context of its deliberations on the 1977-78 Budget and as a result of a more recent review of certain aspects of the scheme. One of the decisions announced at the time of the 1977-78 Budget was the extension of the qualifying period to be served by members of the Regular Defence Force in order to be eligible for a defence service homes loan. Persons who commence full-time service in the Defence Force on or after 17 August 1977 will become eligible for a loan on the completion of six years' continuous full-time service, subject to a commitment to render further full-time service. 
Clause 4 of the Bill provides for amendment of the definition of 'regular serviceman' so that the new eligibility conditions may be applied to those whose service begins on or after 1 7 August 1977 without affecting the eligibility conditions that apply to those who were serving before 1 7 August 1977. 1 emphasise that persons who commenced their full-time service before 17 August 1977 will continue to qualify for a defence service homes loan on the completion of three years' continuous full-time service. 
The proposed amendment will extend the qualifying service to a period more commensurate with the benefits offered through defence service homes loans, and it will be consistent with, and will strengthen, the prevailing conditions of service for the Defence Forces that are designed to encourage longer service. By the proposed insertion of a new section 27B in the principal Act, the Bill will permit the Defence Service Homes Corporation to give a measure of preference in the allocation of loans to those whose eligibility is based on war service. 
As a result of the review of the scheme during the deliberations on the Budget, the Government decided that there would be no change in the existing highly-concessional interest rates on loans or in the maximum repayment period. I remind the House,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the interest rates on loans are 3.75 per cent on the first $12,000 and 7.25 per cent on the amount above $ 12,000. The maximum repayment period is 32 years. However, the practice of other lending institutions in charging a fee on loan applications will be introduced. Authority for this action and, where considered appropriate, refund of the whole or part of the fee, is incorporated in clause 6 of the Bill which provides for the insertion of a new section 27A in the principal Act. 
In addition to the changes which have already been announced the Bill makes two other major amendments to the existing defence service homes arrangements. Since the commencement of the scheme in 1919, insurance cover has been provided under the Act in respect of dwellings in which the Corporation has an interest. Over the years, amendments have been made to the insurance cover and conditions from time to time to conditions cover for beneficiaries in accordance with that generally available from other insurers of dwellings. The terms and conditions of the cover are all contained in the Defence Service Homes Act and Regulations, with the result that amending legislation is required before even a minor change may be made. The Government believes that this necessity to amend the legislation has handicapped the proper functioning of the insurance scheme in the past. 
In order to provide operational flexibility to maintain insurance cover and conditions that are no less attractive than those available elsewhere, the Bill amends the Act to authorise the Corporation to provide insurance cover under terms set out in a Statement of Conditions. This will enable the terms and conditions to be amended by administrative, rather than legislative, process, thus allowing adequate flexibility to adjust quickly to industry changes. The Statement of Conditions is subject to the approval of the Minister and must be tabled in the Parliament when introduced and whenever varied. Clauses 1 1 and 15 of the Bill contain the proposed amendments affecting the defence service homes insurance scheme and are to come into operation on a date to be proclaimed. 
The second of the further amendments to which I referred is the recognition, for the purposes of the Defence Service Homes Act, of de facto relationships. This will bring the Act into line with other Commonwealth legislation and the practice of lending institutions. Consistent with the requirements of other Commonwealth legislation, to ensure that there is a substantial degree of permanency in the relationship before benefits are granted, the Bill requires the de facto association to have been in existence for a continuous period of not less than three years before it will be recognised. 
The amendment will place a de facto spouse or widow of an eligible person in the same position as a de jure spouse or widow. It will enable a de facto spouse to be joined with the eligible person in the security, make a de facto widow eligible for a loan in her own right, and enable certain de facto widows to be granted relief in respect of commitments on their property under the same conditions as those applicable to de jure widows. Proposed amendments relating to the recognition of de facto relationships are contained in clauses 3, 8 and 10 of the Bill. 
The amendment proposed in clause 9 is intended to overcome a problem whereby the Corporation, in the absence of a court order, is unable to distribute the balance of proceeds arising from the sale of a property as mortgagee in possession in joint tenancy cases where the joint tenancy has not been severed and one or more of the joint tenants cannot be located. The amendment is concerned only with joint tenancy cases and authorises payment, after the Minister has determined in accordance with section 36 (2) the persons appearing to him to be entitled to receive the balance, or such part of the balance as he considers proper to the available joint tenant or tenants. The restrictions imposed by the current legislation have caused hardship in some cases by delaying the payment of a share of the proceeds to persons in necessitous circumstances. 
The remaining provisions of the Bill are of a financial nature and are required either to overcome procedural problems and technical omissions or, consequential upon the Defence Service Homes Amendment Act 1977, to facilitate the operation of the financial arrangements applicable to the Corporation as from 1 July 1977. The latter amendments include authority for the transfer from the defence service homes trust account to Consolidated Revenue of fees and other moneys of a non-capital nature. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Benefits made available under the Papua New Guinea (Members of the Forces Benefits) Act and Regulations to 
Papua New Guinea ex-servicemen who served with Australian Forces in World War II are pensions (including pensions payable to widows and other dependants) in respect  or  incapacity, or death, resulting from service, and Decoration Allowance payable in respect of decoration awards during service. 
In 1976,  Sir Albert  Maori Kiki, then  Deputy  Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea, wrote to the then Minister for Veterans' Affairs seeking a special pension similar to the Australian service pension to be paid to bona fide Papua New Guinea ex-servicemen from the age of SS years until death. The request was later supported by the then Governor-General and Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea. The Government decided not to accede to the request as it was considered that the payment of a special reward for service ' pension would not be in keeping with the principle of payment of pensions for disabilities arising from war service or the effects of war. A request has recently been made by the  Hon.  Louis Mona, the Minister for Defence in Papua New Guinea, for the grant of a lump sum of $3m tobe paid to the Papua New Guinea Government to be administered by a Trust. This money could then be disbursed to eligible Papua and New Guinea ex-servicemen who served with the Australian Forces during World War II and their dependants either by instalments or lump sum. The grant sought was to have been in addition to Disability Pensions already paid to entitled Papua New Guinea ex-servicemen. 
Department of Social Security: Stalling: Delays in Providing Benefits (Question No. 696) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Out of a staff of 1 1,746 in Central and Branch Offices and 20 medical institutions in all States and Territories there were 103 officers of the Department who had their home telephone rentals or charges fully or partially paid by the Depanment as at 30 June 1977. 
2 ) The cost for 1 976-77 was $ 1 5 ,4 1 2.34. 
Commonwealth Regional Consultative Group on Energy (Question No. 1165) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Decisions broadly in line with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Toose include- 
the retention of a separate Repatriation system; 
the renaming of the Department of Repatriation as the Department of Veterans ' Affairs; 
the non-transfer to the Department of the functions of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme and the Australian War Memorial; 
the retention of the Repatriation Hospital system; 
the transfer of the Repatriation appeals function to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal; 
the restructuring of the Repatriation Boards; 
the rationalisation of the onus of proof/benefit of the doubt provisions (section 47) of the Repatriation Act; 
the development by a high level medical committee of impairment guides for use in the medical reporting and pension determining systems; and 
following introduction of the Medibank levy, beneficiaries under the Repatriation system entitled to full medical treatment for all disabilities are exempted from the levy. 
Decisions by the Government which are not in accord with the Report 's recommendations include decisions: 
to transfer to the Department the functions of the Defence Service Homes Scheme and the Office of the Australian War Graves; 
not to replace the Repatriation Boards by delegates of the Commission; 
not to have medical practitioners on panels of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal handling Repatriation appeals; 
to retain the present provision for majority decisions in the determining and appeals system; 
not to follow appeals to the Federal Court of Australia against majority decisions unless a point of law is involved; 
not to provide for proportionate exemption from the Medibank levy for members in receipt of disability pensions of less than the 100 per cent General Rate; and 
to replace the Sustenance Allowance with a broadened Loss of Earnings provision. 
Consideration of the remaining areas covered in the Report is continuing and the Government will make further announcements as decisions are taken. 
Use of Animals in Toxicity Tests  (Question No. 209) 
I have heard of some speeches and examined the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on these matters. I must say that I have come to the conclusion that they do not really understand the extent of the problems because they speak as though one can make a valid and equal comparison between the nontariff barriers that the European Economic Community puts up against Australia's agricultural products on the one side, and Australia's tariff barriers on the other side. The position is that Australia at the present time is running an overall deficit in trade of nearly $2 billion. That has come about in recent years because of the virtual exclusion from the Community's market of Australia's efficiently produced agricultural products. In fact Australia has lost over 80 per cent of the export of its agricultural products in recent years. Australia is an efficient producer of many agricultural products in terms of price, quality and steady supply. As the House will know, my predecessor, the present Treasurer, made representations to the Commission and left a document containing some 25 matters. I shall be returning next week to Europe to receive the official response to those matters. 
Australia's case contains, in summary, two aspects. The first is that Australia should have equal access opportunity in trade for the products that it produces efficiently with the access that others have to our market for the products which they produce efficiently. That is, after all, the basis of international trade as accepted by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Second- and this is the point which is ignored by those who criticise the Government's approachthe EEC brings into existence very inefficient agricultural produce, within the definition I have just given, by highly subsidising that production and then, when that leads to huge surpluses of a number of products, dumps those highly subsidised surpluses on the third markets where Australia would otherwise compete, if commercial considerations were those that were pertaining. 
I should have thought that this would have been understandable even to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. I notice that every time he speaks about these matters he changes his mind. He had some comments to make in a speech in the House not long ago which were contradictory and indicated that the Government would never get any steel into the European Economic Community. In fact there is an arrangement by which a substantial amount- if the honourable member looks - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Special Trade Representative does not operate any staff canteens. 
Use of Animals in Research  (Question No. 626) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)One. 
The Department of the Special Trade Representative (formerly the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator) was established on 17 July 1977. No costs were incurred during 1976-77. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, by aircraft and yacht. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no statutory authorities, corporations or undertakings, for which the Minister for Special Trade Representations is responsible. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Question No. 1370) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a private member I travelled to Europe by aircraft in December 1976 and returned to Australia in February 1977. 
As a private member I travelled by yacht to Indonesia for a week's leave in August 1977 and returned by aircraft. 
As Minister for Special Trade Representations and Minister Assisting the Minister for Trade and Resources, I made three visits overseas in 1978. The first commenced in February, the second in April and the third in June. Full details of these visits were announced at those times. 
Prime Minister's overseas visit- accompanying party on 27 and 28 June 1977 (Question No. 1479) 
I want to remind those who have taken an interest in the debate of the purpose of the Bill and to respond to one or two of the questions that have been put and the comments that have been made. This is an important Bill. The whole purpose of the proposed Australian Overseas Projects Corporation is to assist Australian private enterprise organisations to seek and obtain large scale contracts for projects overseas. This would open a new area of opportunity for Australian industry as many projects are beyond the capacity of individual firms. The task of the Corporation will be to bring together the skills that are readily available in Australia to present viable and competitive Australian bids for particular projects. 
The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  in his second reading speech, referred to the objectives of the Corporation and to the way in which the Government envisages that it will carry out its functions. It will assist in the formation of consortiums to bid for particular projects. If requested, and with the approval of the Minister, it could take the role of prime contractor. The concept of the Corporation is to assist Australian private enterprise, not to compete with it. Deliberately included in the Bill are safeguards that will protect the position of Australian private enterprise groups in the event that they find themselves in competition with the Corporation. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, which has been referred to several times, has established an international reputation as an engineering consultancy corporation with a high degree of in-house expertise in a number of specific engineering fields. The incorporation of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation's functions into those of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation could result in a loss of opportunities for private enterprise consultants. Also the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is empowered to contract in its own right in the engineering field. The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation will not have the power or the resources to contract on its own behalf. 
The Opposition seems to envisage that there will be some serious overlapping in the functions of these two corporations. In fact, the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation will be able to contract only as a member of a consortium or as a prime contractor on behalf of Australian firms, whereas the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation could be a member of a consortium which requests the proposed Corporation to act. As can be clearly seen and as has been spelt out clearly, the Bill specifically prohibits the proposed Corporation acting as a principal or agent in trading transactions and it will not be empowered to displace Australian traders and statutory authorities in their normal activities. The supply of goods required for a particular project would be the responsibility of the firms associated with it. 
The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation will be required to act in accordance with sound commercial principles and will seek to obtain sufficient revenue to cover the costs of its operations and to pay a reasonable rate of return to the Government. Similar requirements are placed on the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. The major objective is to assist in securing the profitability and viability of Australian private enterprise through the creation of new market opportunities. As has been said, the 
Trade Commissioner Service will be briefed to provide information on projects to the Corporation so that it will be in a position to inform industry of opportunities at an early stage. The Trade Commissioner Service will continue to service requests from individual Australian firms for intelligence on specific projects. 
A number of the comments that were made in the course of the debate seemed to indicate that the terms of the second reading speech have not been fully understood. I cannot understand why that would be the case because they are clear. Many of the criticisms that have been levelled by the Opposition obviously run counter to what the Minister for Trade and Resources clearly set out. Early in his speech he talked about the need for the proposed Corporation, the examination that the Government did and the reasons for it. That part of the speech was faithfully represented at the beginning of the speech by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  He mentioned clearly- I hope I recapitulated this in my earlier remarks- what the Government sees as the objective. 
In leading for the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  seemed to believe that the Government was trying to indicate that the Corporation is to be set up for different purposes, but I really do not think that proposition can be sustained when one reads what has been said. In fact it is not the Government's belief that it should have the power to buy and sell and to trade. It is clear from the amendment that it proposes to move that that is the view of the Opposition, but that is not the Government's view. Of course, that proposed amendment cannot be accepted. In this House in years gone by we have had vigorous debates about how this type of corporation might be used. We do not agree with the Opposition 's views about that. The honourable member for Hughes suggested that it was wrong for the Government parties when they were in opposition to disagree; but, of course, they made the reasons for that disagreement very clear. The honourable member may not accept them, but we hold the view very firmly that the Government should not set up another- it would be another- competing trading corporation. When one reads the terms of the Bill in relation to this matter which was before the House a few years ago one will find that the powers of the corporation proposed in that Bill were so wide that it would have been permitted- and we were fearful that it would in fact- to engage in widespread trading practices. 
The honourable member said that I do not like the people's instrumentalities making profits. That is the core of the matter and I thank him for that interjection. The previously proposed corporation would not have been an instrumentality for making profits for the people. It would have been a government instrumentality that was influenced very directly by a government which had a socialist attitude and a socialist objective clearly in its platform. There is a deep difference between us. The objective that the honourable member and his party have had for many years is the fundamental difference between us. I am obliged to the honourable member for bringing it out so clearly. We have been over that argument many times and I believe that that attitude, which of course goes beyond simply establishing an overseas trading corporation, is a part of the different ways in which the public views our two sides of politics. Its point of view has been expressed at recent elections. So I will not go over that argument again in any detail. I think it has been made clear enough for those people who are interested. Let me come back to the Bill before us. At one stage I actually wrote down the words of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. He said: 'I think it is worthwhile, perhaps'. I put the word 'perhaps' in brackets. He goes along with the Bill to some degree, but he says that it does not have enough muscle. Presumably he proposes to put some muscle into it by way of the three amendments which he foreshadowed he would move and which have been circulated. I suppose that the major amendment concerns the matter which we have just been discussing. The amendment proposes to insert the following words: 
The Corporation may engage either as principal or agent in the buying and selling of goods overseas but not so as to compete with any Australian organisation. 
For my part I find it very difficult to envisage how that caveat would work in practice. Clearly, in talking about not competing, the honourable member is trying to retreat from the situation of the Bill which was introduced by the Labor Party in about 1974 and which would have provided for competition. In fact the two situations mentioned in the amendment are impossible to separate. For the reasons I have mentioned and those set out so clearly by the Minister in his second reading speech, we cannot accept that amendment. In fact it would go right against our intention in introducing this Bill. 
The honourable member referred to various clauses in the Bill. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who made a useful analysis of the Bill in his contribution to this debate, pointed out the misunderstanding which seemed to exist in the mind of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith in respect of clause 6. Clause 7 points out the prohibition of buying and selling, which we have been discussing and which of course is the basis of the setting up of this Corporation; not some other proposal. It is fundamental to what is suggested. We do not want the Corporation to be open ended; we do not want it to compete; we do not want it to trade; we want it to achieve the other objectives to which we have referred. The clear policy of the Government which has been stated publicly many times is not to see an expansion of the public sector, particularly in our present situation. The Opposition for its part ideologically, and I think in practice, takes every opportunity to recommend and to achieve public sector expansion. That matter represents a deep division between the two sides. If the Labor Party could have the first amendment inserted in the Bill, that would go some way towards achieving its objective. In speaking of the amendments, I must say that the Government cannot agree to them. I have dealt with the first amendment, which aims to give the Corporation more power. 
The second amendment proposes that there be inserted in the Bill a requirement that the Secretary to the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary to the Department of Trade and Resources, the Manager of the Commonwealth Development Bank and the Director of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation or their delegates be appointed to the board of directors. That would be obligatory. The honourable member for Hughes dealt with this matter in some detail and suggested that the way it was worded could and, I think he went on to imply, would result in directors coming from only the private sector. I think he really has exaggerated the situation considerably. Decisions in respect of appointments have not been made. After all, the Bill has not yet passed through the Parliament and is not yet an Act. However, some thought naturally has been given to this matter. Without in any way pre-empting what will be decided by Cabinet, I think it is fairly clear that what is intended here is to achieve a balance and not to provide for appointments wholly from the private sector. 
Equally, we would not accept this proposed amendment because it in turn would make fixed appointments where some greater balance may well be achieved by looking at a wider number of categories. I understand what honourable members opposite are putting forward when they suggest a variety of expertise and connections and I would hope that would be achieved, but I do not believe that the appointments should come from the suggested areas. I do not believe that it would be wise to insert in a Bill an amendment to make something so fixed because, with the pressure of legislation, it is not easy to reintroduce a Bill in order to make an amendment. I am not quite sure that I followed the argument of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. I think he talked about some judicial decision making. With respect I must say that, coming from a lawyer, that rather puzzled me. 
Balance. I accept that and I think I have already indicated my sympathy with that view. I do not think that one should also jump to the conclusion, as did the honourable member for Hughes, that there is any exclusion of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation or the Department of Construction. Those are areas that need to be considered. I hope that I have drawn some distinction between the operations of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and the proposed Australian Overseas Projects Corporation. If we were to accept the Opposition's suggestion, in fact we would have a real overlap, which we do not want. The corporations have different objectives and I think they can pursue them very well. I would not agree with the honourable member that the Government has introduced this Bill belatedly. He knows very well the pressure of introducing legislation into this House. Every year more legislation is required. This Bill was included in a three-year program at the end of last year and has been introduced into this House in August of this year, so I think the honourable member must have spoken tongue in cheek. 
He talked a great deal about trade opportunities. I do not propose to comment on every point he made. I must say that I found it all a bit difficult to follow. I would like him to elaborate some time on how the position of the balance of trade with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, if redressed, would create further job opportunities, presumably in Australia, because I found that point a bit obscure. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartiniOrder! From the tenor of the Minister's speech, he is really adverting to matters which probably would be better discussed in the Committee stage. I understand that the Bill will be discussed in the Committee stage. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No metal or glass waste is generated by my Department. See the answer provided by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services in answer to question No. 1437 in respect of waste paper. 
See(l). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No metal or glass waste is generated by my Department. See the answer provided by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services in answer to question No. 1437 in respect of waste paper. (2)See(l). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) Nil. 
As the house will recall, my predecessor, the present Treasurer, left with the EEC a note of some 25 representations which were the result of Australia's having lost exports to the Community of over 80 per cent of its agricultural products. That loss was brought about by the method of the common agricultural policy and the use of a variable price levy, which effectively denies most access to the Community and, in addition, results in highly subsidised exports which are dumped on third markets around the world that otherwise would be ours, if only commercial considerations applied. The EEC has responded that it wants those matters discussed in the context of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations that are going on, principally in Geneva. Of course, while this is happening our balance of payments position with the Community is worsening. Australia already is in deficit by some $2.5 billion largely as a result of the unequal trading opportunities. The Community is subsidising exports to the tune of $4 billion in this current year. We have been seeing the effect of this recently, particularly in respect of sugar. 
There are some small indications- they are only small- of some movement. For instance, the Community has held out the prospect of some marginal benefits by an agreement on prefixation of levies for frozen beef and the amelioration of some of the difficulties in respect of veterinary matters. There is also a steel arrangement, although the delay in finalising this arrangement has certainly weakened its value to Australia in 1978. There is also some indication of a restoration of previous tariff treatment for buffalo meat. But agreement on the main issues- in respect of export subsidies, in which of course the United States of America is also particularly interested, binding access commitments for beef, dairy products and fruit and the Community's participation in the International Sugar Agreement- is outstanding and the Community's response to our industrial tariff offer has been so far insignificant. Some 4 million tonnes of sugar are being dumped by the Community on world markets and most of this is being subsidised at the rate of two to three times the world price. This was rightly described yesterday by the Deputy Prime Minister as outrageous behaviour. Indeed, it is far worse than anything indicated to Australia by the EEC Commission. This matter is one of the 25 representations I mentioned. The Government will seek a special Council meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to deal with these trading practices. We would expect that from that meeting a panel would be set up which would have the effect of testing the effectiveness, and indeed the genuineness, of Article 16 of GATT. We will see from those proceedings whether the Agreement really works. Another example of an area - 
The honourable member has been careful not to make any statement about the source of the allegations and I think that that in itself is significant. I have no knowledge of the allegations he has made and I will certainly look into the matter. Referring to those areas in the Maralinga region which I mentioned in an answer to a question yesterday, might I say that the British Government spent a very large sum of money making areas as safe as possible by pouring great quantities of concrete to fill in areas that had been dug deep, and in restoring the surface area as much as possible. All of this took place nearly 20 years ago. The radioactive material present in those areas has in the main a half life of some 1 5 or 20 years, I think, from memory and so its effect, deep and buried and covered as it is, has been very much diminished in that time. However, I will make inquiries in relation to the particular charge which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has made. 
Statement by Minister for Supply 
BURIAL OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE 
(Statement by the Minister for Supply, the  Hon.  R. V. Garland, M.P.) 
The Minister for Supply,  Mr R.  V. Garland, during the Adjournment Debate in the House of Representatives on 14 September, said: 
Today I was asked a question by the  Hon.  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition which implied that radioactive wastes from Britain had been flown to Australia and buried at Maralinga. 
Because of the nature of the allegation implicit in  Mr Barnard's  question, I had urgent inquiries made of the Department of Supply. As a result I have been informed as follows: "There is no known foundation for the allegation. "All radioactive waste buried at three places in Australia, Monte Bello, Emu and Maralinga, resulted from experiments conducted at those places. "Relatively small areas at those places were used exclusively for the disposal of waste from experiments in Australia. The places were never intended for the burial of radioactive waste from Britain. "No request by the British to bury, in Australia, waste from their nuclear establishments has been made and certainly no such permission has ever been given. "We have monitored the areas, we know what is there and we have discovered nothing unexpected in our monitoring either in nature or quantity. "Of course we have never produced nuclear weapons or bombs in Australia. So it is clear that the original radioactive material required for the range of experiments had to be brought from Britain. It is possible that in some cases it arrived by air in lead-lined boxes. "But what is buried at Maralinga and the other places is purely the radioactive waste from the experiments conducted with this original material. "As I indicated this morning, all the radioactive material buried in the Maralinga area is covered by thick layers of concrete and is well below the surface where the risk from casual entry is insignificant. Two of these sites remain in the new Woomera prohibited area and the third, close to the Maralinga airstrip, is adequately fenced so that it can be properly controlled should Maralinga itself ever be used as a centre of population or as a tourist attraction. "These sites are not considered dangerous for short-term visits".' 
Statement by Minister for Supply 

 Mr GARLAND (Curtin-Minister for Supply)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I thank you and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for finding that formula to enable me to speak now. During question time today the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked me a question which implied that radioactive wastes from the United Kingdom had been flown to Australia and buried at Maralinga in South Australia. Because of the nature of the allegation implicit in his question, I had urgent inquiries made by the Department of Supply. As a result, I have been informed as follows: There is no known foundation for the allegation. All radioactive waste buried at 3 places in Australia- Monte Bello Islands, Emu and Maralinga- resulted from experiments conducted at those places. Relatively small areas at those places were used exclusively for the disposal of waste from experiments in Australia. The places were never intended for the burial of radioactive waste from Britain. No request by the British to bury in Australia waste from their nuclear establishments has been made and certainly no such permission has ever been given. We have monitored the areas, we know what is there and we have discovered nothing unexpected in our monitoring either in nature or quantity. Of course we have never produced nuclear weapons or bombs in Australia. So it is clear that the original radioactive material required for the range of experiments had to be brought from Britain. It is possible that in some cases it arrived by air in lead lined boxes. But what is buried at Maralinga and the other places is purely the radioactive waste from the experiments conducted with this original material. 
As I indicated this morning, all the radioactive material buried in the Maralinga area is covered by thick layers of concrete and is well below the surface where the risk from casual entry is insignificant. Two of these sites remain in the new Woomera prohibited areas, as gazetted today, and the third, close to the Maralinga airstrip, is adequately fenced so that it can be properly controlled should Maralinga itself ever be used as a centre of population or as a tourist attraction. These sites are not considered dangerous for short term visits. 
I gave a copy of these remarks to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition after dinner. I take this opportunity to advise the House as the information I have just given was not available by the end of the question time today. It might be of interest to honourable members to know- this information was sought of me quite recently by another honourable member- that there were 2 explosions at Emu Field in 1953, and 7 at Maralinga in 1956 and 1957. 1 think I indicated at question time today, or implied, that it was earlier than that. One of those explosions occurred on 4th October 1956 and, according to the file, no fewer than 23 members of the Parliament were present, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and 7 members of his Party. I do not by these remarks wish to provoke the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, though I seem to have been able to do so on more than one occasion quite recently. However, he is at the table now and I would be most interested to hear the basis of the allegations and the circumstances which he sees. 
Answer by Minister for Defence 
1) What steps have been taken to verify the allegations by  Dr John  Coulter and  Mr Avon  Hudson on the radio program  AM  on 2 and 3 December 1976 that the British Government had flown radioactive waste including plutonium from nuclear power stations in Britain to Maralinga, where it was secretly buried at night. 
) Are the assurances given by the Minister for Supply in response to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on 14 September 1972  (Hansard,  pages 1384 and 1503) still valid. 
There has been thorough investigation of all the records and evidence has been taken from Australian officials who held responsible positions at the time. This investigation has turned up no evidence whatsoever supporting the allegations that radioactive waste was brought from nuclear power stations in Britain for burial at Maralinga. 
The assurance given by  Mr Garland  in 1972 remains valid regarding risk. In addition to debris from experiments carried out in the area, some small quantities of radioactive material from the following sources are also buried at Maralinga: 
washings from British service aircraft which participated in nuclear tests at Christmas Island in 1957-58 and which later flew to Edinburgh Airfield for cleaning and maintenance. 
nuclear medical waste from the University of Adelaide. 
I am not aware of any explosion that took place between 1958 and 1961. I am aware of certain trials which I distinguish from explosions, as presently advised, that took place. 
In a letter to me dated 3 February 1 977 he said: 
The details of these experiments were and remain classified. 
However, in a book entitled  Scientist at the White House,  which is the private diary of George Kistiakowsky, who was President Eisenhower's scientific adviser, we find an entry for Wednesday, 30 March 1960 on pages 289 and 290 where the following remarks appear: 
Penney reached independantly the same definition as I did regarding the one-point safety tests, namely, that so long as the total explosive force (of HE and nuclear charge) is due predominantly to the HE explosion and the nuclear reaction is just observable by instruments, this should be called an experiment and not a weapons test. 
Penney, of course, was head of the United Kingdom Atomic Weapons Research Establishment. This book was published before the Minister said that such details were classified. Was the Minister aware of these details? Did he know that they were on the public record? If not, why not? If he did not know, why did his Department not know? Clearly the statement which he made in the letter to me on 3 February 1977 was quite false in that regard. Clearly his statement to the Parliament in reply to my question on 9 December that no explosion took place between 1958 and 1961 was also false. The reply he gave to the Leader of the. Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  this morning was also false. The comments of George Kistiakowsky show that the Minister's sharp distinction between explosions and trials was more than misleading. It was a deception, if not by the Minister, then certainly by his departmental advisers. I have stressed that all along. If we look at what Lord Penney said on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  last Friday, the Minister's deception becomes clearer. He said that radioactive material was tested in little mock explosions at Maralinga. I stress the word 'explosions' and keep saying it because the Minister said that there were no explosions. Lord Penney referred to the explosions as small nuclear tests. The strong inference was that these tests were subsequent to the atomic tests of 1957. We have had no explanation by the Minister for Defence of his statement in the House on 9 December 1976 and his letter to me on 3 February 1977. We do not know whether the Minister for Defence has been fully informed by his Department- and it seems that he has not yet been properly informed- or whether his Department has been fully informed by the British authorities. We in this Parliament do not know the full story of what has taken place at Maralinga. 
There are further examples of the Government's confusion. On 9 August 1977 the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Newman,  in a statement announcing a scientific study of the Maralinga site, said: 
Radioactive substances remaining after the low yield atomic tests at Maralinga from 1955to 1963 . . . 
This contradicts the statement by the Minister for Defence on 9 December 1976. 1 seek permission to have that incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The speech made yesterday, when read as a whole, indicated to the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia some of the Government's activities in relation to the Multilateral Trade Negotiations and the industrial tariff offer that has been made. It indicated what we have been requesting and what we have been attempting to do, with some comment about changes taking place in the industrial manufacturing sector of Australia. I indicated to the meeting the way in which I thought there would be some development in the future. I spoke of planning and not of a plan. When I have been overseas, particularly in Association of South East Asian Nations capital cities, in which the honourable gentleman has shown some interest in recent times, I have explained to them some changes that are taking place here. From the way in which the honourable member put the question, I think he is really reading too much into one sentence. Indeed, I think some of the newspaper headlines reporting that speech are in the same category. I invite him to read it as a whole and to see it in that way. To the best of my recollection, I did not discuss anything to do with the timber industry. 
-So far as the policy announcement is concerned, draft guidelines have been prepared, as the Prime Minister said, together with a letter which would be addressed to all relevant mining companies. I table the letter and the draft guidelines. In the course of the preparation of these documents, of course, my colleague the Minister for Trade and Resources, who is overseas at the moment leading an important trade mission, was consulted, and he endorses the general thrust of the draft. As far as my visit to  Sir Charles  Court is concerned, I am looking forward to that discussion when I am at home in Perth at the weekend. 
Probably earlier than the honourable member. I think that a great deal can be achieved by a careful and rational consideration of the documents that have been tabled and I believe that the honourable member for Perth will find the answers to his other questions contained in them. 
-The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade does not prohibit the use of subsidies on agricultural exports but, consistent with the fundamental principle of GATT, the Agreement stipulates that subsidies should not be used to gain more than an equitable share of the world market. In respect of sugar the Government believes it is quite clear that the European Economic Community has committed a breach of its contractual obligations under GATT. Consistent with Article 16, Australia has asked the contracting parties to undertake an urgent examination of the matter and to make prompt recommendations. 
The facts are simply stated: The Community is expected to export some 3.6 million tonnes of sugar this year at a subsidised expenditure of approximately $US830m. The Community's share of the world free sugar market has gone up from about 7.8 per cent in 1975 to not less than 22.4 per cent this year. In other words, it has nearly trebled its share of exports to the world free market. At the GATT Council meeting which took place in Geneva about 10 days ago- I was present in Geneva at the time- the Australian request received overwhelming support. A number of other countries have fully associated themselves with the Australian complaint. I hope there will be speedy action in GATT to resolve our complaint. 

 - Mr Speaker - 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. 
-During Question Time on Tuesday, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  quoted a passage which he said that I made in a speech on Monday. I have checked and found that there is no such passage in my speech. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the Metric Conversion Act 1970 I present the report of the Metric Conversion Board for the year ended 30 June 1978 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science. 
Pursuant to section 1 9 of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 I present the report of the AngloAustralian Telescope Board for the year ended 30 June 1977. 

 - (Quorum formed) Honourable members will recall that on 19 October the Export Expansion Grants Bill 1978 was referred to a House of Representatives Legislation Committee for review and report. The Committee met on 25 October and the  Chairman  reported the Bill with amendments to the House on the same day. The Committee accepted a number of amendments to the Bill which were circulated by the Government on 19 October. Members of the Committee also raised a number of matters about the operation of the scheme. These matters related to the method of dealing with exclusions, the new exporter provisions, determination of export earning increments and the penal provisions of the Bill. The questions were answered in the Committee and, where appropriate, further elaborations were subsequently given to the members concerned. 
Further amendments were proposed by the Committee to two particular matters. Consideration has been given to these proposed amendments. As a result the Government has circulated proposed amendments to clause 3 sub-clause ( 1 ) paragraph (e) concerning the definition of'minerals' and clause 3 sub-clause (4). The amendment to the definition of 'minerals' is proposed in order to clarify the intentions of the Government. The amendment to clause 3 sub-clause (4) also is a clarifying amendment. That sub-clause defines  the person who is to be regarded as making the export sale and thus is to be credited with export earnings for the purpose of the scheme. As pointed out in the Committee's discussion, the sub-clause as it is at present drafted is not entirely clear on this point. The amendment is proposed in order to ensure that the Government's intention is achieved, that is, that the person who is to be credited with export earnings is the person who was the contracting party to the export transaction. I move: 
In clause 3 omit paragraph (e) of the definition of "minerals", substitute the following paragraph and words: "(e) precious and semi-precious stones, but does not include Portland cement in the form of clinker; ". 
As was pointed out by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I must immediately make good the point that the originator of this amendment was indeed the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  The purpose of the amendment was to try to clarify a concern which the honourable member had and about which he exchanged some correspondence with the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  for whom I am acting in this debate. I give all praise to the honourable member. I think he will go down in parliamentary history as the first honourable member to make an amendment that was supported by a government under the new system. 
I move: 
That amendment No. ( 1 ) made by the legislation committee be amended by omitting 'the goods are clearly sold for export and are exported ' and substituting 'the property in the goods passed from that person to a buyer resident outside Australia '. 
In effect, the Government moves this amendment to reinstate the amendment it proposed to the Committee which, in fact, changed it. I understand that after consultations with the parliamentary draftsmen those honourable members supporting the first amendment of the Legislation Committee are satisfied that the original amendment of the Government would achieve the objective they sought to achieve. Therefore, the Government moves this amendment to put the Bill back into its original position. The results of the Legislation Committee have shown the value of the new system. No doubt committees will refine their objectives as they go along. I think it will become obvious that there will have to be consultation with the parliamentary draftsmen. Therefore, we will be adopting similar procedures to this in a number of cases. To take up the point made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I am sure that governments and all honourable members will have to continue to rely heavily on the mysteries, knowledge and experience of parliamentary draftsmen. 
I was mildly surprised to hear the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  say that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  had not been consulted about this amendment, because my understanding was that he had been consulted. 
I do not state that firmly, but that was my understanding. Perhaps I was in error. However, I have advice to the effect that the Government's original amendment to the Bill, which really, by moving my motion, I have sought to have reinstated, will in fact achieve the objectives which were sought by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and, indeed, by other honourable members who participated in the debate on this matter in the Legislation Committee, as is set out in the  Hansard  record. The Government's amendment, if passed, will ensure that a manufacturer who enters into a contract of sale with an overseas buyer will be eligible for the grant and also, under the other provisions of the Bill, the grant will not be payable unless the goods are exported, which was the point raised during the debate on this matter. Having achieved the objectives which lay behind the amendment passed by the Legislation Committee, it would seem to be unnecessary to change the Government's amendment. 
Perhaps I ought to say in different words what I said a moment ago. I think that it is very important for the House to take great note of the recommendations and advice of parliamentary counsel. Drafting legislation is not an easy matter. Of course, that is not to say that honourable members cannot and should not question the way legislation is drafted. But a lot of technicalities are involved. Drafting legislation is a specialised occupation. I am sure that many of us have had the experience of listening to advice which has persuaded us that one form of wording achieves an objective better than another. 
-Yes, I did. I was not quite sure how the honourable member meant it from the way he said it, but I did notice that he used that word. Obviously in this procedure, which I take it we all agree is still being formed, there will have to be- rightly so- a good deal of reliance on parliamentary counsel. I think that in this case we have discovered that the principle which everybody wishes to achieve is the same. Based on the advice I have received, I believe that the amendment which I have moved provides the wording that the House should adopt. 
Amendment to amendment agreed to. 
Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill, as reported from the Legislation Committee and as further amended, agreed to. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes a number of amendments of an administrative nature to the Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1960 that have arisen from experience in its operation. Honourable members will be aware that the regulation of weights and measures is one of the oldest responsibilities of governments. The Australian Constitution provides the Commonwealth with powers to make laws with respect to weights and measures under Section 51 (xv). The Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1960 set out detailed arrangements for the regulation of weights and measures and superseded an earlier Act passed in 1948. It provided for the establishment of a National Standards Commission with the functions of advising on units for the measurement of physical quantities and approving the design or pattern of instruments that are to be used for the purposes of trade such as weighing machines, flowmeters and the like. 
The Commission has always been closely associated with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization and especially the National Measurement Laboratory. Indeed the latter is responsible under the Act for maintaining standards for units of measurement of physical quantities. Initially the Commission was assisted by NML staff. As a result of the 1960 Act however the Commission was given power to recruit its own staff. Today it is served by a staff of 35 who are now housed at a single location in modern premises in North Ryde. 
Honourable members will note that clauses 1 to 5 are machinery and formal clauses only. Clauses 6 to 8 provide a revised structure for the Commission, update its constitution and method of operation and specify procedural matters not presently covered in the Act. In essence, the clause retains the concept of a Commission comprising a  chairman  and 4 members, all part time, but it proposes that they be appointed by the Governor-General in Council rather than the Minister. The proposed new sub-sections 17 (3) and (4) recognise the need for at least some of the members to have scientific and technical skills related to the techniques and problems of weights and measures. They also recognise the close relationship between the Commission and CSIRO and the importance of advice from the latter in the selection of suitable members. I envisage that some of the three positions would continue to be filled by working members of CSIRO such as the Director of the National Measurement Laboratory or one of his senior officers. 
The proposed new Section 18af provides explicitly for the Commission to delegate certain of its powers to its senior permanent officers. This power had been assumed to be implicit in the present Act but, in the light of queries by the Auditor-General, it was desirable to make it explicit. Since the Commission meets only every few months it is necessary to delegate powers in regard to staff appointments, promotions, and resignations. Clause 9 brings the provisions in regard to finance and auditing into line with modern requirements for statutory authorities. Clause 10 has been included to remove beyond any doubt that the Commission is not liable to taxation. In the Act a maximum penalty of $200 is provided for a person who falsely represents that an instrument for use in trade, for example a weighing machine, has been given 'pattern approval', that is, has been certified by the Commission as suitable for that purpose. The maximum penalty has been increased to $2,000 in line with current values. Clause 12 provides that the Commission shall submit an annual report to the Parliament, which was not required under the Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (in motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  page 1972 of 17 October 1978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Repatriation Acts Amendment Act was passed by the Parliament on 19 October 1978 and given Royal Assent on 26 October 1978. The Government's position was fully stated in the debate on that Bill. 
I did see in this morning's newspapers reports of a speech yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition at the conference to promote Australian exports. One would have thought that this would be a bipartisan occasion, but the Leader of the Opposition did revert to his criticism of the Government's efforts in trade and in increasing exports. He said in the course of his remarks that I had made only one brief visit to an 
ASEAN country when the fact is that I visited four of the capitals for two or three days each. He must know that the Government has had, from the Prime Minister down, a number of ministers visiting countries in the region and in the Middle East. The Deputy Prime Minister was there recently. 
I am glad to have the honourable member's confirmation of that because from reading the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition one would never guess that that was the case. Those visits are on record. Future visits will be made as necessary. The Government has made a big effort to discuss bilateral trade matters and to expand trade. It has sent overseas senior trade officials. The Trade Commissioner Service has been active, as have many companies and firms. 
As to visits to Europe, it surely cannot have escaped the honourable gentleman's notice that the multilateral trade negotiations, which I hope are approaching a conclusion after having been going on since 1973, are being conducted very largely in Europe. Surely we have to attend those discussions; the Leader of the Opposition would hardly suggest that we stay away. 
Finally, it is clear from our negotiations with the European Economic Community that our twin objectives of, firstly, access for Australian products, to which we are entitled, and, secondly and importantly, pressure for a decrease in the EEC subsidised exports of commodities and products are most important to us. If we want to build up our trade in the region, which seems to have the Opposition's support, clearly the practice of the EEC in undercutting our commercial arrangements, whether they be present or future arrangements, is a very important aspect of building up trade in the region and elsewhere. So I must say that yesterday the Leader of the Opposition, in his anxiety to criticise everything we do in relation to trade, displayed a negative Labor policy and one which is certainly against Australia 's interest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) Not applicable. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Substantial progress has been made in recent weeks in the negotiations with the European Economic Community. As I have already announced, settlement is in prospect, importantly covering meat and dairy products, but settlement of a number of other issues is outstanding. The visit I made to Europe in March involved a number of discussions with Vice-President Gundelach who is also the Agricultural Commissioner of the Community, and a number of key Ministers of the nine member countries. During those discussions I stressed the need for long term access and significant relief from the restrictions which the Community has placed on our trade. In the result, the Commission obtained further authority from the meeting of the Council of Ministers in Luxembourg last month. Further, negotiations which I expect to be held with  Mr Gundelach  at the end of this month should give Australia better prospects for improved long term exports to the Community. 
However, there are a number of other urgent matters of a bilateral nature which need our constant attention. For instance, recently the Community limited the volume of imports of apples by imposing a so-called voluntary restraint during a period when exporters from the southern hemisphere normally would be able to export freely. In respect of coal there has been a longstanding proposal for the EEC to give a subsidy on intra-European trade but recently the United Kingdom announced that it would impose import controls on all coking coal. 
I agree with the honourable member. I think the House will be aware of the action that the Government has taken in relation to sugar and the action that the Government has taken under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Wine is another product about which barriers to our trade have developed. We have continued to press for easier access. There is a little evidence that we are meeting with some success. I indicate to the honourable member and to the House that there are a number of issues of importance which need a continuing effort and which the Government believes must be made in the interests of our economy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. 
(a) to (c) Not applicable. 
Aborigines Enrolled as Electors (Question No. 3815) 
The negotiations are entering their final stage. It is already clear that agreement will be reached between the developed and developing countries on a number of important issues, including commodities, shipping and arrangements in favour of the least developed land-locked countries and island developing countries. The future of other negotiations is not so clear; in particular, marked differences have appeared between developed and developing countries on trade issues relating to protectionism and structural adjustment. Last Saturday Australia tabled its draft resolution on inflation, protectionism and structural adjustment with a view to bridging the gap between the two groups. The Australian resolution was warmly welcomed by all developing countries. Their spokesman indicated that developing countries agreed with the thrust of the resolution and that it would be taken into account fully in the negotiations. China, Group D and other developing countries also supported the Australian resolution. As a result of this initiative Australia now holds an important position in the fifth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and is strongly contributing to its final resolutions. 
by leave- I am pleased to be able to inform honourable members that Australia has reached a settlement in its Multilateral Trade Negotiation Bilateral Negotiations with the European Economic Community. Before outlining the main features of the settlement, which is ad referendum and subject to confirmation by the EEC Council of Ministers and the Australian Government, it is appropriate to recall something of the background against which these bilaterals have been held. 
During his visit to Europe in mid- 1977, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made it clear to representatives at the highest levels of the EEC in Brussels and the governments of member states, that Australia found intolerable the increasing imbalance of opportunities in favour of the European Community in our bilateral trade, and the impact which EEC export policies were having on international markets for agricultural commodities of prime export interest to Australia. He reached agreement with the  President  of the Commission of the European communities,  Mr Roy  Jenkins, to begin highlevel discussions between Australia and the EEC on matters affecting our bilateral trade. 
For Australia's part, these negotiations were opened by my colleague  Mr Howard,  the then Minister for Special Trade Negotiations, and subsequently were continued by me as Minister for Special Trade Representations. In June 1978, we agreed with the Community to pursue these negotiations, not on a bilateral basis but in the context of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. In pursuance of this, I undertook a number of visits to Europe, to put Australia's case for improved access to Community markets. This required representations in key European Community capitals and involved negotiations with senior Commission officials. Among these, the most notable was Vice  President  Gundelach, who is also Commissioner for Agriculture. The background to these negotiations bears reporting. 
During the mid-1970s, Australia witnessed a severe and continuing reduction in agricultural export opportunities to the EEC following the adoption of increasingly restrictive import measures by the Community. Also in this period, when world agricultural markets were severely depressed, we saw our sales to third countries disrupted by the operation by the EEC of mechanisms aimed at disposing of its surplus agricultural production. The Australian sugar, butter, beef, cheese, wheat and canned fruit industries suffered as a result of either increased EEC protection and/or subsidised export competition. It was against this background that, in mid- 1977, the Government launched an intensive highlevel campaign aimed at securing a better balance of trading opportunities with the EEC. In particular, we sought improved and secure access to EEC markets for a number of our agricultural products and limitations by the Community on the use of massive and open-ended export subsidies. 
In agreeing to transfer our negotiations to the MTN however, we made it abundantly clear to the Community that in the event of our representations not being satisfactorily resolved, either bilaterally or in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, Australia would be forced to reappraise the totality of its trading and commerical relationships with the EEC. In the negotiations which have progressed over the past ten months Australia has continued to pressure the EEC Commission and individual member states of the EEC for improved market access for our agricultural products. 
I have taken this opportunity to recall the background of the Government's campaign with the EEC, mindful of the fact that at no stage has it had the support of the Opposition. Indeed, the Opposition has persistently knocked our efforts and described the Government's approach to the EEC in terms which suggested that they saw it as harmful, ill-directed and fruitless. 
For confirmation of this, one has to refer only to the address by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  at the launching of the National Export Campaign on 1 9 February this year. 
The Opposition 's view is clearly not supported by Australian producers or, indeed, by the nature of recent developments. We heard this evening, just before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, the Leader of the Opposition again criticising. I ask myself why the Opposition tries, as it does so repeatedly, to make these negotiations harder, including occasions when I am about to have negotiations in Europe. Does the Opposition not want to help Australian farmers? 
The honourable member for Adelaide may say that, but the fact is that many speeches have been made in this House on that subject when I have had no opportunity to reply. I am taking that opportunity now. The fact is that it is antagonism to the country producers gone mad. Whenever an opportunity comes along the Opposition criticises the Government, inviting it to give up the negotiations, it tries to pretend that these EEC markets in commodities can be replaced in the short term by other countries. The Government is negotiating permanent access, particularly in the beef and dairy industries, so that security will exist upon which farmers can plan for the first time. The Leader of the Opposition in his speech said in respect of cheese, that under the scheme Australia would not be able to compete. The deal provides that we can compete. The situation is that in the most recent and crucial stage of the negotiations the Community has produced an offer which the Government regards as providing an acceptable basis for a settlement between Australia and the EEC in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. 
Although full details must await the confirmation of the agreement by the Australian Cabinet and the Council of Ministers, I will list briefly the main elements covering the beef and dairy sectors. We have been offered a number of concessions which should be of benefit to our trade in beef. 
At present, there is a 50,000 tonnes annual General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) commitment for levy-free imports of beef for direct consumption. This quota is to be increased, and although it is allocated on a global basis, Australia should benefit from this increase in proportion to its current share of EEC imports under the quota. 
In addition, however, the Community has offered a new and much smaller quota for high quality beef which will be reserved exclusively for Australian exporters. 
Agreement has also been reached on an understanding relating to EEC imports of manufacturing grade beef. The Community has agreed to increase imports of beef in this category in proportion to future increases in Community consumption. 
In addition, the Community has offered to establish a sixty-day prefixation period for setting levies on imports of manufacturing beef. 
This should help to minimise certain of the disadvantages which Community levy practices have placed on distant suppliers such as Australia. 
Australian exports of buffalo meat will also benefit under the agreement. 
The Community is to implement arrangements which will permit a resumption of this trade in the near future on a levy-free basis at around the previous level of 2,000 tonnes per annum. 
Concerning cheese, in return for certain concessions on cheese imports into Australia the EEC has offered to guarantee access for worthwhile tonnage of cheese under favourable conditions. 
This is an important concession as it will provide Australian cheese exporters with access opportunities to the Community market which they have not enjoyed since 1972-73. Australian primary industries will also benefit from European Economic Community concessions on some other agricultural items, including offals, meat extracts, dried fruits and certain canned fruits. 
In return for the foregoing concessions, Australia had agreed to bind the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade duties on a range of products of interest to the Community. As with the bilateral settlements with the United States of America and Japan, the interests of Australian industry have been carefully considered and the Government is convinced that the concessions which have been offered will have no detrimental effect. The Prime Minister said earlier this evening that he regards the settlement which has emerged from the negotiations with the Community as a modest but important outcome. I endorse this view. The EEC has offered guarantees on enlarged market access for Australian agricultural exports which effectively complemented the guarantees which had earlier been obtained by Australia in agreements with the United States and Japan. In total, this can add to the renewed confidence for planning and investment in Australia's rural industries. 
The agreement just concluded does not sweep away all of the problems which affect trading relationships between Australia and the EEC. There is recognition on both sides that some important difficulties remain. One such difficulty relates to the massive and open-ended subsidy support given to agricultural exporters in the EEC. They are able to seriously undermine the activities of efficient Australian producers in placing their products in third markets. In particular I have expressed deep concern at the effect which the lack of export discipline by the EEC is currently having on the world free market for sugar. The EEC has not acceded to the international sugar agreement and its exports are playing a large part in preventing International Sugar Agreement members from realising their market stabilization objectives. 
During  Mr Gundelach  's visit the opportunity has been taken to have a wide ranging exchange of views with Australian Government Ministers on aspects of trade and agricultural policy. These discussions also covered a range of issues of importance to bilateral trade, including the mutual benefits which can accrue from the further development of Australia's capabilities as a source of vital raw materials for Europe. Other Ministers have also taken advantage of the visit by Vice  President  Gundelach to provide him with a firsthand impression of how representatives of a middle-ranking trading nation such as Australia view the outlook for international trade in the post-multilateral trade negotiations environment. It has been suggested to  Mr Gundelach  that, while the MTN has produced some gains in the further reduction of industrial tariffs, the establishment of new or strengthened non-tariff disciplines, further liberalisation of trade in some agricultural products, reform of the GATT rules and the greater recognition to developing countries within the trading framework, the extent of these achievements was seen as modest in relation to the broad objectives of the Tokyo Declaration in 1973. 
I emphasise that, whilst the MTN had helped to push back the creeping forces of protectionism, considerable effort would be required by the international community in the years ahead to ensure that these modest gains were held and enlarged upon. The visit by Vice President Gundelach, the most senior representative of the EEC to have visited Australia, has been a most important and beneficial one. It has not only led to the satisfactory conclusion of bilateral MTN negotiations but also it has provided the opportunity for a wide ranging exchange of views on key international economic issues which affected the position of both countries in the world at large. When the agreement I have reached with Vice President Gundelach has been confirmed by the Council of Ministers of the EEC and the Australian Government I shall make a statement in Parliament on the details of the bilateral settlement. In conclusion, I emphasise that close and co-operative trading ties with Europe are essential to Australia's well-being. This agreement and the current round of discussions represent a significant and welcome strengthening of those ties. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill 1979, the Live-stock Export Charge Amendment Bill 1979, the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Amendment Bill 1979 and the Meat Research Amendment Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the five Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Following a review of the fruit and vegetable industry by the Canadian Tariff Board, Canada has announced increased duties on canned fruit including pears. 
These changes have eliminated preferences accorded Australia under the Canada/Australia Trade Agreement and the Australian Government made strong representations stressing the importance of these preferences. As a result the Canadian Government has agreed that for canned pears and some other canned fruit the preferences will be phased out over a three year period. 
Because of the special difficulties likely to face the canned pear industry in the Canadian market further representations have been made in recent weeks to the Canadian Government for an extension of the phasing period for canned pears. 
The Canada/Australia Trade Agreement sets out the conditions under which either country can take action to compensate for loss of concessions. 
In 1973 during a review of the Trade Agreement both countries agreed on the need for flexibility in the administration of the Trade Agreement to allow necessary tariff adjustments to give effect to domestic economic policies and to assist participation in the GATT multilateral trade negotiations. 
Since 1973 numerous adjustments have been made by both the Canadian and Australian Governments to their respective customs tariffs which have resulted in duty increases or reduced preferences for the other country. Neither side has taken compensatory action and there is still valuable preferential trade in both directions under the Trade Agreement. 
Any action on tariffs against imports of Canadian canned cherries would need to be considered in this context. 
Following the recent talks in Canada referred to above Australian officials are having further discussions with the Australian industry on the scope for any additional action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. 
Not applicable. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of the Special Trade Representative for the year ended 30 June 1 979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 3172  (Hansard,  7 June 1979, page 3143). 
The Budget presented in this House three weeks ago is a statement of the Government's considered financial policy in the economic circumstances. It is a balancing of literally thousands of requests, needs and pressures. Many of the points raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  have already been answered conclusively by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  I am sure that the honourable member for Gellibrand knows that many of the points he made are not valid, at least in the way in which he presented them. 
I remind the honourable member and the House that the Government's strategy has been endorsed by many prestigous international bodies such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the International Monetary Fund and our own Reserve Bank of Australia, on whose board sits the illustrious  Mr Hawke.  So I do not propose to follow the honourable member for Gellibrand through that maze. I wish simply to make some general comments at this stage of the debate because I think that perhaps there is a need for those on this side of the House to try to draw a number of the threads together. 
I think that the curious aspect of the debate has been the shifting ground of the Labor Opposition's attack on the Budget. Of course everybody understands Labor's efforts to criticise everything the Government does, but what we have seen here is almost a daily change in the line of attack. At the beginning, the attack was on income tax receipts and this was presented as allimportant. Actually, that attack seemed to peter out until this afternoon when the honourable member for Gellibrand, reintroduced it, and I will deal with his remarks in a little while. I think it petered out because people came to see rather clearly that a decrease in the taxation rate from 1 December cannot mean an increase in tax. If there is an increase, it is because wages will rise, and that is clear to everyone. It has been the case ever since Australia has had a progressive rate of personal income tax which, of course, it has had since the inception of personal income tax. 
Labor presents itself as the alternative government so it is interesting to note how few are the specific things it has said it would do in government. In fact we can learn more from an examination of the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  at the Labor Party conference in Adelaide during July than we can from their speeches in this debate. They did not indicate an economic policy at all; they simply took certain election positions and hoped that certain emotional points they made might be remembered. We remember their speeches here, particularly that made by the Leader of the Opposition two weeks ago, a speech that I would characterise as a catalogue of empty slogans and personal abuse. Indeed, such methods have played a large pan in Labor's attacks in recent months but, frankly, I doubt that they have had much effect. Nevertheless, some people may regard it as having been great fun at the time. 
In order to get economic matters of substance together, perhaps we should consider what Labor is suggesting and then look at the Budget provisions presented by the Government. I know that I need not go into the disaster in economic affairs caused by Labor when it was in office. I remind the House that it was the Leader of the Opposition who went to such efforts at the Labor conference in Adelaide to distance himself from Whitlamism and that period of Labor government. Of course, he was a senior Minister and Treasurer in that Government's final phase. It was  Mr Daly,  also a Minister in that Government, who said: 'We spent money as though it was going out of fashion'. Of course the whole country knows what was the result. 
In summary, what the Labor leadership is presently suggesting is that the Government should have spent much more money in almost every area of government activity and, as a matter of fact, in a few other areas that it would like to create. The range and diversity of Labor's interests is remarkable. According to Labor, more money should be spent on education, regional development, health, welfare, the States, and a hundred relatively smaller items. As a criticism, nothing is easier to say about a Budget than that this area or that area or all of them should have more money spent on them. The Leader of the Opposition, when Treasurer in 1975, said in presenting his budget: 'You cannot get quarts out of pint pots'. And he was right; but now in 1979 he is going in the opposite direction, as is the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
What sensible people know, and what was proved in this country in the years from 1973-75, is that if one greatly increases spending, several things happen in consequence. One is that taxes have to go up enormously, and Labor's increases in taxes each year were staggeringly high. Indeed, while the Leader of the Opposition was Treasurer personal income tax increased by 89 per cent. Another thing is that inflation greatly increases, thereby depreciating people's savings, and confidence is undermined. We then very quickly get even higher unemployment and interest rates. But we cannot get away from that. There are no magic cures or solutions. There is a limit on how much can be spent above what is earned without having the country and, in particular, the weak suffer. It has to be understood that the campaign of the Labor leadership at present is to try to raise certain doubts about issues without coming up with very much of their own. We all remember that when last year's Budget was presented, the Leader of the Opposition brought down his alternative Budget. It was roundly condemned as inflationary and spendthrift. This year, he did not do the same for the obvious reason that everybody could have added up the cost of all the promises and would have easily seen that not only would his Budget be inflationary but also would require an immense increase in taxation. By increasing the deficit, which, by the way, Labor governments love to do because they treat it as money coming from nowhere, interest rates would be forced up. Of course that money has to be borrowed and it has to be repaid. Deficits are in effect deferred taxation. 
We should always remember that it was Labor which started this huge growth in unemployment, the inflation rate and interest rates from which we have been suffering ever since. The inflation rate that we saw during those years was not entirely Labor's fault but Labor certainly made matters far worse than it needed to have done. If Labor were shortly to be in a position of being able to implement the policies or suggestions which it is making today- I do not think for a moment that it would be in that position- it would of course make our inflation, our interest rates and our unemployment far worse. What, after all, is Labor's response to this Budget from an inflationary pressure point of view? It has not told us. But what we do know is that in June 1 975 under Labor the inflation rate rose to 1 7 per cent. When this Government took over in November 1975 it was 14 per cent. At that time Australia's inflation rate compared unfavourably with comparable economies; today it compares favourably. 
This Budget takes a responsible attitude to the state of the Australian economy today. This Government, is endeavouring to live within its means and to indicate that not all problems can be solved by governments spending more and more money. The Government has stimulated investment and growth. In other words, it is working towards setting a climate in which the creation of real, permanent jobs can be achieved. This is not always easy. Certainly, the Government has not hesitated in indicating where there was a need for restraint and that responsibility was an essential part of providing a more healthy economy and a sustained recovery. It would have been very easy to present a Budget which would gain short term popularity; but inevitably this would have been shown to be wrong a few months later and would have created unpleasant consequences. This Budget is the right one for Australia today. I think the Opposition ought to be reminded that the old proposition that votes can be bought by spending more money is, to say the least, outdated and shallow. 
Let me refer just very briefly to some of the elements of the Budget. There was pre-Budget talk of rises. I am sure honourable members remember all the speculation in this regard- that there would be rises in excises on wine, beer and spirits, in company tax and in postage charges. None of these rises occurred. On the contrary, assistance was given carefully and with restraint in a number of deserving areas- education for youth, education grants-in-aid and an easing of the means test on student assistance schemes. In the area of education $6,000m is being paid by nearly six million taxpayers. In the area of social welfare nearly $9,000m is being paid. One cannot say that these things are negligible. Employment schemes have received support, and the Labor Party knows that. Pensioners have received a number of advantages. The limit on the income that they can separately earn has been increased, and the fringe benefits have been increased. They have half-yearly indexation adjustments. There is an extension of the school dental scheme. Further funds have been allocated for aged persons accommodation. There are many repatriation concessions, meeting many of the demands of veterans around the country. The contribution to local government has gone up significantly. The concessions for small business amount to $30m. Those are some of the items which our opponents somehow manage to overlook. 
But behind all that is the improvement in the economy and the efforts which the Government and the people of Australia have made in improving the economic climate. A lot of work has gone into improving exports. Exports mean more production in Australia and the creation of real and permanent jobs. In the area of trade- which has been my particular interest- there have been negotiations which have created some security of exports which this country has never had before. Yesterday the House was given the statistics on the increase in the export of manufactured goods. That is a very important element because it provides greater productivity and the manufacture of goods provides more jobs. Direct outlays in this Budget relating to manufacturing have more than doubled those in previous years and that has been done in order to provide more jobs. Business investment has been growing strongly. Many recent company announcements are showing that investment projects are coming to fruition. There are encouraging signs of increased production activity and a substantial recovery in private dwelling activity is under way. We all know of the tremendous increase that has taken place in investment capital flowing into this country in the last 1 5 months. 
There is no use in trying to create phoney jobs. I might say that the Labor record shows that from the middle of 1974 to 1975 the number of jobs went down by 55,000. Actually in the private sector it went down by 155,000, but the Labor Government tried to absorb that reduction by creating 100,000 government jobs. In the last financial year the total number of jobs in this country has increased by 64,000. 
This is the way to try to create real employment in the country, and the honourable member who is interjecting knows very well that all the cosmetic schemes he would like us to build would disappear. 
I have referred briefly to the matter of taxation. I will refer to it again, although not at length. The basic rate of tax which most people in this country pay, allowing for non-taxable income of nearly $4,000, used to be 33  Vi  per cent. On 1 December this will go down to 32 per cent. One cannot get away from that, but the Labor Party has tried to fuzz the issue in the way that we have heard earlier. We know that throughout this year incomes will rise for a variety of reasons, including the growth that I have mentioned. The receipts from that will rise, but not the rate. On the other hand the Labor Party has made it clear that included in its taxation policy is a capital gains tax and a new resources tax on top of the existing company tax. Because of the many avenues in which the Labor Party desires to spend money, who can doubt that there would be rises right across the board as there have been in the past? Labor must always greatly increase tax because it has so many expensive schemes to finance. It announces new schemes every week and they always need big money. That deters investment and the creation of real jobs. It reduces exports and incentive. When honourable members opposite speak about soaking the rich and making the rich pay, let me remind them of this: As anybody with a nodding acquaintance with the statistics will know, there is not that much money in it; but, more important than that, when it is done the most able people in the community leave the country. That has happened all around and honourable members opposite have to face up to the fact that they will lose many of the able and educated people from all walks of life if the rate of tax is made so high that it is a large disincentive. 
Unemployment is a serious matter and is of concern to all thinking Australians. I want the House to consider that problem in relation to the Budget. Some people advocate an all-out drive to increase expenditure in order to provide employment. Let us set aside those who are professional critics and will not be persuaded by any analysis. The suggestions centre on make-work schemes. This has been tried in many countries and has had an insignificant effect on the level of unemployment. It was tried energetically in this country by the previous Government in 1974. Its excess became so notorious and the side effects so serious that even the Whitlam Government reined it in in 1975. The worst feature is that make-work schemes greatly add to inflationary pressures by the spending of more money, and at the same time they increase the deficit, which is another way of saying that the Government must borrow more money to cover the position. That leads to higher interest rates and it takes money away from investment which would create real jobs. Out of this situation one gets more expenditure, a higher deficit, more inflation and higher interest rates. 
I appeal to those who are listening to accept the simple truth and not to be misled by fallacies and exaggerations. There is no fixed number of jobs. There is no fixed amount of work. There is no fixed amount of trade which can be cut up into different portions. There can be more or less jobs, more or less exports or more or less production, depending entirely upon whether we as a nation handle our economy in the right way and whether we compete well and invest wisely.  (Quorum formed). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Before I call the honourable member for Grayndler, I remind the House that this will be the honourable member's maiden speech. I request honourable members to observe the normal courtesies and not to interject. 
-That United States action had been expected for some time. It is not expected that it will have any significant impact on the market. In fact, the prices of wheat and other rural commodities are reasonably firm at present. The firm wheat prices have probably been caused by the reduced Russian grain production this season. In fact, Australia has made significant sales already, including three million tonnes to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics which has to be supplied by the middle of next year. The Australian Wheat Board has been selling very strongly, particularly in the Middle East. It has sold over 1.5 million tonnes of grain to 
Egypt, about 0.5 million tonnes to Iran and over one million tonnes to Iraq so far this year. I spoke to Ministers in Baghdad last week, and they indicated that there is considerable potential for growth in the wheat trade with Iraq and also for trade in many other commodities. 
I think we can say, and the House should recognise this, that these firmer prices are very welcome indeed. They are needed by many rural communities. They help not only the Australian balance of trade but also many regions and rural industries which have not had things very easy for some years but which now have a chance to rejuvenate. With our wheat harvest estimated at 1 5 million tonnes for the coming season, I think it ought to be said that all Australians have a responsibility to see that the crop is harvested and exported, and that Australia continues its long standing reputation as a reliable supplier. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill embodies the Government's Budget proposals for improvements in Social Services pensions and benefits. It demonstrates the Government's determination to continue to provide for those in need, notwithstanding the necessity to restrain Government expenditure. The proposals will add to reforms which have already benefited low income families generally. Honourable members will recall that the current family allowance scheme brought increased assistance to some 300,000 families with 800,000 children who, simply because of their low incomes did not benefit fully, or at all, from the previous system of tax rebates. 
The main provisions of the Bill are: 
Provision of twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits. 
Extension of the income limits for pensioner fringe benefits. 
Extension of wife's pension to women who are in approved benevolent homes. 
Extension of wife's pension to women who have no child in their care, or who are under 50 years of age where their husbands are in benevolent homes. 
Extension of the standard rate of pension to wife pensioners where they or their pensioner husbands are likely to lose the economies of living together by reason of failing health. 
Provision for the payment of family allowances on a daily basis where the child moves from one person to another or enters or leaves an institution. 
Provision for the continuation of handicapped child's allowance to a person ordinarily caring for a child where the child is temporarily in an institution approved for the payment of family allowance. 
Other matters dealt with in the Bill, to which I will return later, include maintenance payments made on behalf of pensioners in benevolent homes, entitlement to double orphan's pension, entitlement to unemployment benefit in cases of industrial action, postponement of unemployment benefit, and the effects of compensation awarded for the same incapacity as that for which sickness benefit has been granted. 
Twice-yearly Indexation 
The Bill provides for twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits. Indexation increases will be made in May and November of each year. The next increase will come into effect on 1 November1979 and will be paid on pension pay day 8 November. I will refer to details of this increase a little later. The following automatic indexation increase in pensions and benefits will occur in May1980. The additional cost of providing twice-yearly indexation in respect of Social Security pensions and benefits is estimated to be $51m in 1979-80. 
Under the existing indexation provisions of the Social Services Act, the following payments are automatically indexed in November each year on the basis of the percentage increase in the consumer price index between the two preceding June quarters: Age, invalid and widow's pensions; wives' pensions; sheltered employment allowances; the supporting parents' benefit; the unemployment benefit for persons aged 18 or more with dependants; the unemployment benefit for married persons aged 16 or 17; the sickness benefit for all persons aged 18 or more; and the sickness benefit for married persons aged 16 or 17. All pensions and benefits now indexed once annually will continue to be indexed under the proposed twice-yearly indexation provisions. These adjustments, as appropriate, will apply also to special benefits. 
In November 1979 the basic single rate of age and invalid pensions, the sheltered employment allowance, the unemployment benefit for persons aged 1 8 or more with dependants, and the sickness benefit for all persons aged 1 8 or more, will be increased from $53.20 to $57.90 a week. The same increase will apply to the widow's pension and the supporting parent's benefit, to bring the basic rate for those payments to $57.90 a week also. The combined married rate of pension or benefit will be increased from $88.70 to $96.50 a week. These increases reflect the full 8.8 per cent increase in the CPI between the June quarter 1 978 and the June quarter 1 979. 
The Government will maintain the free of income test pension currently payable to those aged 70 years or more. The rates are $51.45 a week for single pensioners and $85.80 a week for married pensioner couples. People in receipt of these pensions may be eligible for a higher rate of payment depending on how much incomeexcluding pension- they receive. A single pensioner who, just before his 70th birthday, is receiving a reduced pension at, say, $30 a week because of the income test will, on attaining 70 years of age, immediately become eligible for an increase in his pension to $51.45 a week. Similarly, a married man aged 69 with a wife aged 66 receiving reduced pensions, say, at $30 a week each, because of the income test will, when the husband reaches 70 years of age, have his pension increased to $42.90 a week, but his wife will continue to receive a pension subject to the usual income test provisions until she reaches 70 years, whereupon her pension will also be increased to the basic free of income test pension rate. 
Action will be taken to identify all pensioners who may be eligible for a higher rate and to invite them to test their eligibility for an increase if their income is below the relevant limit. I will return to that matter in a moment. With the concurrence of honourable members I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the rates of pensions that will be payable to pensioners aged 70 years or more. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_73_0.jpg"></graphic>

The new rates of pension and supporting parent's benefit will come into effect on pay day 8 November 1979. The new rates of unemployment and sickness benefit will operate in respect of payments due on and after 1 November 1979. 
Fringe Benefit Income Limits 
As the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  indicated in his ministerial statement on 21 August, one area of great concern to pensioners has been the income test limits for pensioner fringe benefits. Commonwealth fringe benefits available to pensioners holding pensioner health benefit cards include access to bulk billing of medical fees, a range of free pharmaceuticals, access to free optometrical consultations and hearing aids, a one-third reduction in telephone rentals, and some reductions in fares on Commonwealth rail and shipping services. In addition, State governments and various private organisations provide assistance to these pensioners. 
At present a pensioner loses all of these fringe benefits if his private income reaches $33 a week for a single pensioner and $57.50 a week for a married pensioner couple. These amounts are higher in the case of recipients of sheltered employment allowance and where there are children. Whilst it is difficult to calculate the value of fringe benefits to the individual pensioner, it has been suggested that, on average, they could be worth up to about $ 10 a week. The income limits for fringe benefits have been fixed for some time. Some pensioners have lost entitlement to fringe benefits as a result of increases to their superannuation or war pension over which they have no control. Accordingly, the Government has decided to amend the Social Services Act to increase the fringe benefit income limits to $40 a week for single pensioners and $68 a week for married pensioner couples. Increases for recipients of sheltered employment allowance will be slightly higher in order to maintain the prevailing differential between the limits for this group and pensioners. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the current and proposed fringe benefit limits. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_74_13.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. It is estimated that some additional 25,000 pen sioners and recipients of sheltered employment allowance with 5,000 dependants will qualify for pensioner health benefits as a result of these increases. Action is being taken by the Department of Social Security to identify those cases where departmental records indicate that a pensioner over 70 years of age could be entitled to a consumer price index related increase. Where the position is not clear a letter will be sent to the pensioner or pensioner couple concerned indicating the relevant income limit below which a CPI related increase or fringe benefit entitlement will exist after 1 November 1979 and these pensioners will be invited to test their eligibility for a CPI related increase and/or fringe benefits if their incomes are below the appropriate limit. 
As the Minister for Health also indicated in his ministerial statement of 2 1 August, the Government has for some time been aware of differences in the treatment of sole parents receiving class 'A' widow's pension and supporting parent's benefit. When we came to office, there was no specific assistance available to sole fathers and supporting mothers were not eligible for the full range of pensioner fringe benefits. They were not eligible for pensioner health benefits. In November 1977 this Government introduced the supporting parent's benefit which replaced the supporting mothers' benefit and extended eligibility for assistance to sole fathers on essentially the same basis as for sole mothers. 
We have now decided to extend eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to supporting parents subject to the liberalised pensioner fringe benefit income test outlined above. The extension involves amendments to the National Health Act and the Health Insurance Act. As a result, Commonwealth fringe benefit assistance for supporting parents will be exactly the same as that for class 'A' widow pensioners. The rates of pension and benefit are already the same. 
It is estimated that some 56,000 supporting parent beneficiaries, including 2,500 men, with 96,000 dependants will qualify for pensioner health benefit cards. As a result their health costs will be reduced significantly. This will be of special assistance to those with young children, particularly children suffering from chronic illnesses. Eligibility for fringe benefits provided by State government and other organisations is usually restricted to holders of pensioner health benefit cards. The extension of these benefits to supporting parent beneficiaries and to pensioners with private income between the existing and proposed income limits of pensioner health benefits eligibility will be a matter for the States and other responsible bodies. 
Wife's Pension 
A wife's pension is payable to the wife of an age or invalid pensioner where the wife is not qualified for such pension in her own right. Payment is subject to the income test. As I have already indicated, wife's pension will be extended to women who are in benevolent homes and to women with no children or who are under 50 years of age where their age or invalid pensioner husbands are in benevolent homes. Benevolent homes are approved as such by the 
Director-General of Social Services under authority contained in the Social Services Act. Another change in relation to wife's pension is that the standard rate in lieu of the married rate will be paid where the living expenses of a married couple are likely to be greater than they would otherwise be by reason that they are unable, as a result of the illness or infirmity of either or both of them, to live together in a matrimonial home- for example, where either or both partners enter a benevolent home, a nursing home or hospital. The proposed changes for wife pensioners will place a married couple in the same position as a couple who are both age or invalid pensioners. 
Maintenance of Pensioners in Benevolent Homes 
Consistent with the proposal which the Commonwealth has put to the States and the Northern Territory that the hospital cost-sharing agreements be varied to provide for charges in respect of nursing home type patients in recognised hospitals, it has been decided to bring the contribution which pensioners in benevolent homes make for their maintenance in line with the contribution which the Government has adopted as a desirable objective for hospital patients generally. Under current arrangements pensioners in benevolent homes retain up to $18.75 a week from their pension including supplementary assistance for their own use. The balance of the person's pension is paid direct to the benevolent home for his maintenance. Under the new arrangements, which will come into effect on a date to be proclaimed, the contribution made to the home for persons entering benevolent homes will be increased to $54.95 a week to bring it in line with the contribution by patients in non-government nursing homes. This will leave a pensioner receiving supplementary assistance with $7.95 a week for his own use. 
A savings provision has been inserted in the Bill to ensure that when the new arrangements come into effect no existing benevolent home pensioner will be paid an amount lower than that which he is receiving. The savings provision will provide that any subsequent increases in pension will be applied towards the maintenance of the pensioner until such time as the amount of maintenance equals the contribution by nursing home patients. I should emphasise that the proposed deduction from pension will in no way reduce a person's total pension entitlement. It will merely mean that a greater amount than that which is currently deducted from pension will be paid to the home for maintenance purposes. 
Family Allowance, Double Orphan's Pension Handicapped Child's Allowance 
At present, family allowance is payable in periods which commence on the fifteenth day of one month and end on the fourteenth day of the next month. Payment is made, for the whole period, to the person or approved institution having the care of the child on the first day of the pay period. This can mean that a person or institution having the care of a child for the greater part of a period but not the commencement, receives nothing by way of family allowance in respect of that period. Broadly stated, the conditions for payment of family allowance apply also to double orphan's pension and handicapped child's allowance, but handicapped child's allowance is not payable to an institution. Consequently the absence of a child from the family home for a few days covering the commencement of a family allowance period can result in the non payment to the parent or guardian of amounts of $47.70 and $65 a month respectively. To correct this the Government proposes that, where a child moves from one person to another or enters or leaves an institution, entitlement will be decided on the basis of the number of days for which a child is in the care of the person or institution. 
In respect of a handicapped child 's allowance, the absence of a child from the private home for a short period can be disregarded and payment continued uninterrupted provided family allowance continues to be payable to the parent or guardian. However, under existing conditions if a child enters an institution to which family allowance is payable the parent or guardian loses handicapped child 's allowance. It is proposed to amend the law to enable handicapped child 's allowance to be paid to the parent or guardian where the child is in an endowed institution for a temporary period. However, as at present, the handicapped child's allowance will not be payable where handicapped children's benefit or nursing home benefit is paid to an institution. 
Double Orphan's Pension 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, in order to qualify for a double orphan's pension a person must be caring for a child, other than a child he has adopted, both of whose parents are no longer living, or one of whose parents is deceased and the other is not able, because of specified circumstances, to support the child. Honourable members will be aware that some people have travelled overseas to adopt children under the laws of other countries or to bring children to Australia with a view to adoption under Australian law. Overseas adoptions may not be recognised under Australian law. While there is no barrier to payment of a double orphan's pension where a child, Australian born or otherwise, is awaiting adoption in Australia, it has never been the intention to pay the double orphan's pension for any adopted child, including those adopted under the laws of another country. The proposed amendment in this Bill will ensure there is no doubt about this. 
Unemployment Benefit- Industrial Action 
It is a condition of eligibility for unemployment benefit under section 107 of the Social Services Act that the claimant must satisfy the Director-General that he is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike. In the interpretation of this provision successive governments have followed two basic principles: Firstly, the Government cannot permit unemployment benefit in effect to become strike pay; secondly, responsibility for sponsorship or support of a strike by a trade union must be accepted equally by all members of that union. 
Doubts have been expressed as to whether these principles are fully supported by the existing law. It is for this reason that the Act is being amended. The Bill provides that unemployment benefit will not be payable to a person whose unemployment was or is due to industrial action by him or by members of a union of which he is a member. The disqualification for unemployment benefit will continue while the industrial action is in force but will no longer apply after the industrial action has ceased. Industrial action will include not only a strike but also such action as bans, go-slow tactics or other unauthorised limitations on the performance of work. However, the definition expressly excludes bans, limitations or other restrictions on work which are authorised by the employer of the person concerned. 
The Bill provides that the rate of unemployment or sickness benefit for a married person shall be at the unmarried rate plus additional benefit for children, if the spouse is not or would not be qualified for unemployment benefit by reason of taking industrial action. The Bill also provides that special benefit will not be payable to a person in respect of a period for which he is not qualified for unemployment benefit as a result of industrial action. 
Unemployment Benefit- Postponement 
At present the Director-General has the authority to postpone for such period as he thinks fit, the date from which unemployment benefit shall be payable where: Firstly, a person's unemployment is due, either directly or indirectly to his voluntary act which, in the opinion of the Director-General, was without good and sufficient reason; secondly, a person's unemployment is due to his misconduct as a worker; or thirdly, a person has refused or failed, without good and sufficient reason, to accept an offer of employment which the Director-General considers suitable. Provision is made in the Bill for postponement of unemployment benefit for a minimum period of six weeks and a maximum period of 12 weeks in these circumstances. 
Sickness Benefit and Compensation 
When a person receives compensation in respect of the same incapacity and in respect of the same period for which he is qualified to receive sickness benefit the benefit otherwise payable is reduced by the extent of the compensation payment. There is no dual payment of benefit and compensation unless the rate of compensation is less than the rate of sickness benefit. In these cases the amount of benefit paid brings the person 's total income to the maximum rate of sickness benefit otherwise payable. In the usual case it is intended that sickness benefit should be paid only until such time as the person receives compensation. In the event of a lump sum award covering the same period for which benefit has been paid and being in respect of the same incapacity, the amount of benefit paid is recovered from the client or the person responsible for paying compensation or the insurer. Over recent years, however, practices have come to notice which limit the Commonwealth's ability to reduce or recover sickness benefit in these cases. 
Amendments proposed in the Bill will ensure that the Department of Social Security has power to effect recovery of sickness benefit payments once compensation has been received for the same incapacity in respect of which sickness benefits have been paid. In addition, greater responsibility will be placed upon the client, the person responsible to pay compensation and the insurer to notify the Department of events which impinge upon recovery of amounts paid out by the Department. 
Machinery Amendments 
There are a number of machinery amendments in the Bill. These will: Firstly, authorise the appointment of a second  Deputy  DirectorGeneral of Social Services; secondly, authorise the appointment of directors of social services in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory; thirdly, make amendments consequent upon the new self-governing status of the Northern Territory; and, fourthly, make several drafting amendments of a correcting or consequential nature. These amendments do not involve any additional expenditure. 
Costs 
Expenditure from the National Welfare Fund on pensions and benefits payable under the Social Services Act is estimated to be $7390m for 1979-80 which will be an increase of $650m over expenditure in 1978-79.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In introducing the Social Services Amendment Bill 1979 1 referred to the Government's decision to extend the eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to supporting parents. This will mean that supporting parents and their dependants other than those excluded by the income test provided in the Social Services Act, will be entitled to receive certain fringe benefits. Under the National Health Act the holders of pensioner health benefit cards are entitled to free pharmaceutical benefits and hearing aids. Clause 3 of this Bill amends the definition of 'pensioner' in the National Health Act to include supporting parent beneficiaries. Eligible supporting parents, along with recipients of age, invalid, widows and service pensions and of sheltered employment and tuberculosis allowances, will be entitled to be supplied with pharmaceutical benefits, without charge. This entitlement extends to the pensioners' dependants. This initiative is evidence of the Government's concern for pensioners on low incomes, and others, such as supporting parents, who are among the disadvantaged in our community.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have already introduced the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 which extends entitlement to free pharmaceutical benefits to supporting parents. This Bill contains a further measure to give effect to the Government's decision, as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget Speech, to extend eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to supporting parents. 
By virtue of section 10 of the Health Insurance Act 1973, eligible pensioners, as defined in the Act, are entitled to Commonwealth medical benefits at the rate of 85 per cent of the schedule fee, or the amount of the schedule fee less $5, whichever is the higher. Clause 3 of the Bill before the House amends the definition of 'eligible pensioner' in the Act to include recipients of the supporting parents benefit. As honourable members will realise, the effect of the amendment will be to entitle supporting parents who satisfy the pensioner health benefits income test to Commonwealth medical benefits at the level applicable to eligible pensioners generally. A further effect will be to enable supporting parents, as is the position with all eligible pensioners, to assign to the practitioner rendering the service the Commonwealth medical benefits involved. 
As I stated when introducing the National Health Bill (No. 3) 1979, the extension of these benefits is further evidence of the Government's continuing concern for pensioners on low incomes and other disadvantaged persons in the community. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
The present position is that, following agreement by the governments and the respective Prime Ministers of New Zealand and Australia, an examination has been conducted, principally by officials of the New Zealand Government, to see what options there are for a closer trading and economic relationship. TransTasman trade has increased a great deal in recent years to $1 billion, two-thirds of which is under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. But there is a general feeling that NAFTA has reached a plateau, though Australia and New Zealand are one another's major market for manufactured goods. Political union is not being considered, and I emphasise that. We are speaking of trade and economic development. It is clear that both countries have to deal with a very competitive trading environment, and we cannot afford to be inward looking. Any arrangement made would need to give advantages to both countries and certainly not act in any way against legitimate aspirations of developing countries, particularly those in the Pacific and in Asia. The position is that officials will be meeting in Wellington on 1 and 2 November to consider the options. I believe that that meeting will be followed by a meeting between the respective Prime Ministers, probably in February next year. 
I am sure that all Australians will be delighted by the success of Australian wines at the important Paris Olympiad. Indeed, in one of the main classes for red wine, Australian wines won all four of the first places. I congratulate the wine producers. I am sure all honourable members will join me in that. Australian wines have consistently won international awards. Our exports of wine are increasing, but there is still a big job to do. Perhaps it ought to be noted that only about 2 per cent of Australian production is exported. Last year those exports were increased by about 15 per cent which was the first increase for five or six years. Traditionally, the wine producers themselves have undertaken the exports. Some markets in Scandinavia are new. Other important marketsJapan, Germany and the United Kingdom- are increasing. 
The Australian Wine Board has taken generalised promotion abroad and has recently appointed an international marketing manager, which we think will assist. The Government has made a number of efforts in respect of export market expansion and development. It has taken a direct interest in assisting those exports. Nevertheless, exporters of Australian wines, whether they be good South Australian wines or good Hunter Valley wines, are encountering difficulties in some markets, notably in Europe, in respect of labelling and certification, but the Australian Government is vigorous in endeavouring to remove those obstacles and to assist this worthwhile and high quality trade. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Ministerial Statement of 13 September 1979 by the Minister for Trade and Resources on the Uranium Advisory Council First Report  (Hansard,  pages 1085-7). 
It is true that the European Economic Community is to be enlarged. Greece has signed a treaty of accession and will join the Community from January 1981. Spain and Portugal are expected to become members later. Given our previous experience, it is only prudent for Australia to assume that enlargement of the EEC will create difficulties for some of our exports. Greece is a large producer- in fact it is the world 's largest exporter- of currants and sultanas and also a large producer of peaches for canning. I and colleagues of mine have taken many opportunities in our visits to Brussels to have discussions with the Commission in an endeavour to ensure that our trade will not be adversely affected and to safeguard our trade in these products with the present Community member states, future ones and also third countries around the world. 
The Government will certainly continue to take every opportunity to ensure that we protect our legitimate trading interests. I might say that these changes to the EEC have some implications for the General Agreement on Tariffs and 
Trade. We shall be pursuing our rights energetically when such matters come before GATT. I and other Ministers are endeavouring to get a Greek Minister who is engaged in such matters to visit Australia soon. We will certainly make representations very strongly to him. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill, the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
I reply very briefly to the debate which has taken place this evening on the social services and health amendment Bills. Hard though it is to discern from the speeches of Australian Labor Party members tonight, the Social Services Amendment Bill has two broad parts. One is, by amendment, to create a number of benefits and increases in benefits to pensioners. Not much attention was given to that. The second part is to remove unemployment benefit from those members of unions which have gone on strike. Labour members tried very hard to find examples to suggest that this was unfair, but the Government cannot permit unemployment benefit in effect to be strike pay. The public is fed up with strikes, the effect they have on peoples lives and their incomes. These measures are to put the responsibility for the support of a strike by a trade union equally on all members of that union. The reasons for all the amendments provided in this large Bill are set out fully in the introductory speech. I am not going to go over them again now, but there will be an opportunity next week to debate further the clauses of the Bills in the Committee stages. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clause 1. 
Progress reported. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 as they are related measures? Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
The amendment is not acceptable to the Government because such increases would be distinctly pacesetting in comparison with every other compensation code in Australia. I think that the Opposition will be aware that one of the matters of great concern to those who employ people, those who provide jobs in Australia, is the cost of workers' compensation. The economic consequences, particularly for the private sector, would be significant if the Opposition 's amendment were to be accepted. 
Question put: 
That the schedule proposed to be omitted  (Mr Holding's amendment)  stand part of the Bill. 
I wish to make one or two comments in reply to the speeches that have been made which serve perhaps to emphasise the comments which have been made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in debate in the Senate and in the second reading speech in this House. I draw attention to the fact that long term compensation payments to Commonwealth employees have to be seen in perspective. In the first 26 weeks of any incapacity for work an employee receives compensation payments at his full sick pay rate. It is only after that period that the flat rate benefits apply. Various methods may then be used by incapacitated employees to supplement weekly compensation payments. Firstly, accrued sick leave may be used to bring weekly income up to pre-injury salary. Secondly, if an eligible employee is retired as a result of his injury, he also receives a superannuation pension. Thirdly, for the employee who is not eligible for superannuation, an invalid pension, adjusted by the income test, may be payable in addition to weekly compensation. A married employee with at least one dependent child would receive flat rate weekly benefits at a rate higher than the present adult minimum wage. 
The Government ensures that compensation rates are regularly reviewed having regard to increases in the general wage scale and in comparable benefits paid under State legislation, including those which are provided for automatic adjustment. The Government believes that the present methods of review are adequate. Commonwealth rates for weekly incapacity benefits can be compared with those available under Statelegislation. I mention two States- New South Wales and Victoria. In New South Wales a single employee receives $96.30 a week, a spouse $22 a week and each child $ 1 1 a week, which are about the same as the rates paid by the Commonwealth for a family man. In Victoria the rates presently paid are $73, $20 and $7 respectively. I understand that the new proposals provide for $105 a week for an employee, $30 a week for a spouse and $ 10 a week for a child, but these rates will be subject to a ceiling of $155 a family a week. So the weekly benefits of a Commonwealth employee with a spouse and three children will exceed those that would be available under the proposed Victorian rates. I mention those two examples in the two most populous States in general response to what has been said. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Holding's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The European Economic Community has a system of greatly subsidising the exports of a number of products which affects the markets of many countries. This practice is of most concern to Australia in respect of dairying and sugar. As honourable members know, the EEC declined to join the International Sugar Agreement although there is some evidence that the United States of America may shortly do so in spite of the failure of a Bill to pass through  Congress  the other day. The Australian Government decided to set in motion a challenge to the Community's practices in the selling of sugar and its subsidising of such sales, commencing with the request for the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva to set up a sugar panel. The report of that panel was received by the GATT Council last night Australian time without dissent. In fact, many countries participating in the debate spoke against the EEC's trading practices in respect of sugar and, for that matter, in respect of other commodities. 
The report made three points which I think are of interest. It first of all said that serious prejudice had been caused to Australia, that if the EEC's export subsidy system as it is presently operated continued it would ultimately result in its getting more than an equitable share of world trade and that it already constituted a source of uncertainty in world sugar markets and was a threat of prejudice in terms of GATT Article 16. The Government believes that this is a very serious matter for us and for world trade. It is a matter that needs constant exposure. 
There is a number of other avenues where the Government can press the EEC to adjust its sugar policies in order to remove prejudice to Australia and to other efficient exporting countries. 
I acknowledge the interest that the honourable member has shown in these matters. I am glad that he has asked the question because I have had a number of queries along those lines. As the House knows, earlier this month very senior officials did meet in Wellington with New Zealand officials to discuss and examine the scope for closer economic cooperation between the two countries. But studies are still at a relatively early stage and certainly no precipitate action will be taken. It is clear that if change is to occur it will have to be absorbed in a manner which will avoid any sudden dislocations in the economy. When options are examined in greater detail particular attention will be paid to the economic and social implications for all major industries, and this certainly would include the dairy industry. In fact, the Government would not consider questions of detail or contemplate any decisions in the area without giving the Australian dairy industry ample opportunity to make its views known. 
Last year the Government certainly sent a reference on cheese to the Industries Assistance Commission. I assure the honourable member that the views of the industry will be very carefully weighed when a decision is made on the report. 
In June 1979 consultations were initiated with New Zealand within the Joint Dairy Committee. During those consultations the New Zealand Dairy Board indicated that its objective in the Australian market was to develop a modest place for New Zealand cheese and a share in reasonable market growth. The Australian Government is continuing discussions with New Zealand to see how that objective might be achieved without materially prejudicing the interests of the Australian dairy industry. 
In the multilateral trade negotiations the Government sought and obtained international opportunities for trade in cheese. 
