I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has counsel for journalist Wilfred Burchett asked for a court of inquiry to hear charges against  Mr Burchett?  Will the Prime Minister meet this request, or does he prefer to establish guilt without trial? 
I would like to add just a few words to this debate, though I am doing it under difficult circumstances with a dose of the flu. Unlike the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  I do not feel that we need to apologise for taking the opportunity to air our views on this legislation. It is to amend the Social Services Act in relation to certain married persons suffering illness or infirmity and it provides for the payment of pensions at standard rates or single rates instead of married rates to aged couples who lose the economies of living together by reason of failing health. I suppose some of us married men could not concede that we enjoy the economies of living together, but nevertheless there is a fair case to be made out along the lines that when an aged couple separate for reasons of sickness there is likely to be an additional financial burden. As a result of these considerations the pension increase is to amount to $1.75 a week. I agree with the honourable member for Mitchell if he is implying that the amount of money involved does not justify too much speech making in this Parliament. When all is said and done it works out to 25c a day, so it Ls little enough for this under-privileged section of the community; and they are under-privileged. After all, we are told that 3 out of 4 have no income, that half of them do not own their own homes and that 1 in 5 - or roughly 28% - live in poverty. 
I think it is a fair case that the Opposition has made out on this legislation in view of the circumstances which I have just referred to and which other speakers have outlined. We say that the Government is niggardly and that the legislation is petty even though we concede that it has some value. I presume that this legislation will benefit couples whose separation by way of admission to a hospital or nursing home is of a permanent and long term nature, which is likely to be the general circumstance of the couples concerned. There has been no prediction as to the number of people who may benefit, but 1 think it is fairly safe to say that the vast predominance of pensioners are not likely to benefit from these provisions for reasons which I hope to be able to outline. In other words, this is not major legislation at all. But it could be the most significant legislation under the social welfare heading which the Parliament is to deal with in 1970. If that is the case - and 1 think it is - it is very difficult to see the intent of the Government in restricting the scope of this debate. 
I have taken the opportunity.  Mr Deputy "Speaker,  as no doubt you have yourself, to look over the Governor-General's Speech, which outlined the legislative intentions of the Government for the current year and I detected that nothing of a substantial nature in regard to social services was indicated in that Speech at all. The Speech was silent on very important matters affecting the welfare of aged people in our community and, indeed, invalids as well. There was no mention of any government plan to alleviate the means test. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did the Greek oil tanker 'Donarita' contravene provisions of the Beaches, Fishing Grounds and Sea Routes Protection Act 1932- 1966, the Pollution of the Sea by Oil Act 1960- 1965, or the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil 1954. by discharging oil into Botany Bay on 11th February 1970. 
If so, what action has been or will be instituted for the offence. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is the Customs House Building at Circular Quay, Sydney, to be preserved for posterity. 
Has consideration been given to dedicating this historical building as an Australian National Maritime Museum as a feature of the Captain Cook Bi-Centenary Year; if so, with what result. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Where and when have statistics on the ownership of secondary industries in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea been prepared and published since his predecessor's answer to me on 9th May 1962 (Hansard, page 2144). 
Is it still true to say, as his predecessor then told me, that nearly all secondary industries in the Territory are Australian-owned. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which hospital and medical benefit funds pay benefits in respect of abortions. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What proportion of cargo carried between Australia and Japan is transported by - 
the Australian National Line; and, 
other Australian shipping companies. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notie: 
Is he able to say whether President Nixon decided to cut back the number of United States conscripts to serve in Vietnam from 35,000 to 12,000 as from 1st January 1970. 
If so, will the Government reduce, by the same percentage,the number of Australian youths scheduled for conscription at future call-ups. 
If not, why not. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has the Commonwealth Public Service Board declined to grant to architects, engineers, surveyors and draftsmen in the Commonwealth Public Service the 6.6% salary increase paid  3i  months ago to 38 related classifications? Has this resulted in the banning of overtime, the restriction of a work to regulations campaign and a call for the resignation of the Public Service Board at a recent mass meeting of union members? Will the Prime Minister say whether be regards this matter as serious enough to justify his urgent attention? 
The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  could talk himself blue in the face with all his platitudes and cliches on this subject but the fact of the matter is that the success of the Government's housing scheme - of any government's housing schemes - is finally measured by the houses in which people live; whether they can pay for them, and have sufficient money left for the other essentials of life; whether they can get them at reasonable prices without being exploited; and whether sufficient homes are available in decent environments. I think the answer to that kind of criteria is an emphatic no. The fact of the matter is that this Government over the years, as is the case in 1970, has failed to show an appreciation of the fundamental factors associted with the housing problem. It has never looked, for example, at the question of effective land utilisation. One has only to read the daily Press to get some kind of a bead on this proposition. 
In the 'Australian' a couple of weeks ago an architect proposing a developmental plan for Canberra outlined a scheme which embodied private courtyards to contemporary styled housing in a garden-like setting, and he was able to show that without sacrificing anything at all one could double the land utilisation or the number of houses and the people one could accommodate on an acre of land. But there is nothing like this being contemplated at the present time. I suppose it is fair to say there are too many people being permitted to compete for too little land in a given area. In New South Wales there are enormous problems. Some people say that N.S.W. stands for Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong. The fact of the matter is that people are loading into that region and there is great competition for land. 
How long is it since we have heard this Government talk sensibly and persuasively about the need for decentralisation, regionalisation and the matter of deploying our industries through incentive schemes into other areas. When all is said and done all land is useless until it is provided with services which are made available from public revenue. We ought to ensure that we exploit the possibilities available to us to take industry into parts that will give new life to country areas. One might have thought that the honourable member for Cowper, who sits on the cross benches and who represents the Australian Country Party ostensibly, would have said something along these lines. There is a need to rejuvenate country towns and to give them houses and assistance in this way. But nothing has been said along these lines. Of course, the most important fundamental necessity that is continuously being disregarded by this Government is the need to provide adequate credit for the young people. Would anybody be prepared to say at this unhappy stage in the history of housing in Australia that our young people are able to get what ought to be their birthright - the amount of money that they need at reasonable rates of interest with which to acquire a home? 
We are told by the honourable member for Cowper and the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and others who have spoken earlier in this debate that there is an unnecessary and pedantic quibble going on about this matter as though there is no problem in the housing field. 1 went to the Parliamentary Library and I asked for figures on the number of outstanding housing applications in connection with established lending institutions in Australia. First of all, there is the War Service Homes Division. I was told that as at 30th June 1969 there were 4,350 outstanding applicants to the Division. There is no need for me to labour this point. Recently the Opposition brought forward for discussion a matter of definite public importance to draw attention to the fact not only that there is a large number of outstanding applications but that the Government has allowed the War Service Homes Division to run out of money, and months will pass before the young ex-servicemen from Vietnam will be able to receive this assistance. 
I was told that the Housing Commission of New South Wales as at 30th June 1968 - I think the figure is probably worse at 30th June 1969 - had 26,892 outstanding applications. That is the situation in one State, the State of New South Wales. The Housing Commission of Victoria as at the end of June 1969 had 14,295 outstanding applications. Figures were not available for Queensland or South Australia. The State Housing Commission of Western Australia as at 30th June 1968 had 17,300 outstanding applications. Good heavens, we are told that 175,000 migrants are going to arrive in Australia this year and approximately one-third of them are likely to leave the ship in the west and look for houses. The situation is bad enough now but how- bad will it be with the invasion of such a large number of house-hungry people. The Director for Housing in Tasmania, had 2,445 outstanding applications listed as at the end of June last year. So out of the 4 States that have been mentioned, some 61,032 applications for housing are outstanding with the State housing authorities.. There are other lending bodies which are not listed here, such as insurance companies, building societies and banks. How many people are waiting for housing through these organisations? How long have they been waiting? 
In 1968 the State housing authorities together built 10,371 homes, and during that year they had 52,315 applications. So they arc steadfastly dropping behind. One wonders if honourable members opposite have any earnest heartfelt conviction in relation to the need to assail the problems that are concerning the people. We wonder what the Government's proposals are concerning the need for slum clearance. I glanced at a report the other day. lt .said that in Melbourne there were between 1.000 and 5,000 acres of slums which required to be cleared urgently. The report said that the rate of clearance was 1 5 to 20 acres a year. Yet there is no proposal, or even apparent concern, to look at these matters. 
Some recriminations -have been passed in the chamber tonight about a contention by an Opposition member that housing authorities could be assisted to engage in the forward acquisition df sites. Does the Government want public money to spend on purchasing Housing Commission sites after the price has become inflated, or does it want value for money? The sensible business-like approach to this matter is to earmark the site and acquire it by option or the best means available as early as possible. Yet this proposal has been rubbished in the House. One wonders what motivates people and whether honourable members opposite speak for banks or some other organisation rather than the public interest? We were told by the honourable member for Cowper that these proposals should not be countenanced and that they cannot be implemented. My own shire  President,  Councillor Geitzelt, who is visiting Canberra at the present time, has told me that his local government authority made in excess of $lm out of its own land project. It is a matter of acquiring residue land, consolidating, planning, and making it available to couples at reasonable rates. Unfortunately there is a tendency sometimes for these schemes to be exploited. The Councillor also mentioned as an aside that someone bought a block of land the other day, sold it within an hour and made $2,000 profit. I admit that that kind of problem is very hard to resolve. 
I notice the honourable member for Cook shaking his head. He gives us the impression that there is nothing serious to talk about in regard to the housing needs of young Australian couples. I would like to refer the honourable member to the report by the Housing Industry Association, which is not an adjunct of the Australian Labor Party. It is a national organisation of the building industry, the banks, the building societies and estate agents. What did it have to say about the housing position generally? It said: 
More than 60,000 Australian families are living in sub-standard accommodation. 
This report was the result of a 12 months survey. The report continued: 
The majority are forced to occupy their homes because they have neither the resources nor the income to obtain better accommodation. 
We believe that people should be given the incentive to save, but we also believe some consideration ought to be extended to people who have not a saving capacity of any consequence. No doubt many of them would be included among the 60,000 people referred to in the Housing Industry Association's report. 
The report also said that the cost of land has more than trebled in 3 years. Should not this matter occupy the attention of this Parliament? One would feel that with all the loquaciousness of honourable members on the opposite side - the self-righteous and pious pronouncements on this matter - the problem of the cost of land might at least have been identified. What will the position be if the problem is left unattended for yet another 3 years? The report then went on to list a number of points of action. The report was delivered to this Government, in particular to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  and, if I am not mistaken, to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton). 
This impartial and expert authority drew attention to the need for lower interest rates. What has been done about that? It is ironical that recently interest rates went up to 71% in this country. Let us see what has happened on the same day in the United Kingdom - poor old Britain which is supposed to be battered and down on its knees taking its last breath under a Socialist Government, according to honourable members opposite. On the very day that the interest rate went up in this country for all sorts of purposes, including housing, it went down to the same extent in the United Kingdom. Yet Australia is supposed to be relatively prosperous. The Housing Industry Association called for larger loans to tie in the first and second mortgages. We remember this Government's alleged panacea for this problem. It established the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, which has not had a useful effect, in my view. After all, no-one ever lost money by lending it for housing. Can any honourable member tell me that in recent years, in contemporary times, lending money for housing has been a risky business. Of course it has not. The effect this has had has been to increase the price of housing and the young people who are forced to insure have had to carry the cost of the insurance. 
The reason people have not been prepared to invest in housing is not because of risk but because it has been relatively more profitable to invest in short term lending, such as hire purchase and matters of that nature, where people can turn over their money quickly. There is a limit to the capacity of people to repay long term loans, such as loans for housing purposes. The Government has failed to see even this elementary point. The Housing industry Association called for assistance with the provision of land at lower rates and it called for action to limit the rising land prices. Sydney land prices have risen by an average of 10% each year over the last 10 years. Honourable members opposite should express some kind of view on this subject if they seek to prevail in the face of the problem. 
For the 12 months ended August 1969 the average land prices rose by 14.9%. It is said that prices are rising much faster than people can save. The  ratio  of land prices to housing prices is moving very sharply. Once the ratio used to be 25% represented by the cost of land and 75% represented by the cost of housing. In the best of situations now we find that the ratio is 50-50. In my own area out in the Sutherland sbire, which is about 17 miles from Sydney, Parkes Development is pushing through virgin bush country with its sub-divisions. The price of a piece of land on an undulating site will be about $10,000 or $12,000. If it has a flickering view of the Woranora River the price will run to $15,000. To maintain the ratio of today's land and housing prices a purchaser would be spending a total of $30,000 on his house and land. A report which is available indicates that if one borrows $19,000 - and lots of people in my area have to do this - at the standard rates of interest that prevail generally at the present time one will have to pay back no less than $31,000 in interest alone. On top of that the principal will have to be paid. So a total of $50,000 can be expended for a $19,000 loan. Surely this kind of thing justifies the attention of honourable members opposite. 
We on this side of the House wonder whether any thought, has been given to the future provision of homes! We are told that by 1972 we will need 156,000 homes per annum. I understand that last year 130,000 homes were provided. The requirement was 142,000. We are lagging behind now and we are not gearing up to meet the situation with which we will be confronted in a few short years. Twenty-one years have gone by since the Liberal-Country Party came to office in this Parliament. To sum up its record in the field of housing one could say that it has used the housing situation as an economic weapon in difficult times. In 1960 and 1961, when the credit squeeze beset us, one of the first industries hit, together with the motor vehicle industry, was the housing industry. It is obvious that the Government has not found any way out of the problem. Young people are now being adversely affected. 
During this Government's period of office interest rates have risen by 42% in the case of loans made available by the Commonwealth Savings Bank; by an average of 87% in the case of the trading banks, and by 112% in the case of life assurance companies. That can be contrasted with the record of the Chifley Government. I do not want to harp on the past except to mention that compassion was a characteristic of everything done by the Chifley Government. Its 53-year loans were made available at interest rates of 3%. The Government met three-fifths of the rebates which were made available to low income families by the States. Rents under the 1956 housing agreement were  $6  per week, but now they are as high as $20. One-fifth of a person's income was expended on a home. Now the proportion has risen to an unprecedented level. The Opposition wonders why the Government is not concerning itself with matters mentioned by some of my colleagues. There is a need for building research. We are told that $3m per annum is being expended at the present time. The Master Builders Federation of Australia has asked for a compulsory levy amounting to 0.1% to be placed on builders. This would yield a considerable amount of money and could save over $100m a year. 
A country that is encouraging home construction to the extent that we are ought to be trying to get value for money. What are we doing about modern techniques? Dramatic experiments are being carried out overseas with fibreglass homes that look like space ships. They are round in shape and can be transported by helicopter and landed on the site. They have insulation, air conditioning and all the facilities that seem to characterise contemporary living. These homes are being moulded in sections, bolted together and landed with the least possible construction costs. That seems to me to be the kind of dramatic approach that we should be looking at here, together with other pre-fabrication techniques. There is a lack of imagination and a lack of serious interest in this subject. I have talked about some of the potentialities of housing which the Government ought to be tantilised into looking at. Now I want to go back sharply to the Bill for the short time that remains. It is not necessary for me to outline the purpose of the Bill because its net effect is little enough. The Opposition has proposed that we should lift the ceiling limit on the value of homes which attract a grant. It has advocated that credit unions should be accommodated. In general, from the inception of this legislation in 1964, it has proposed the elimination of all the bugs and bureaucratic features which have caused so much difficulty to so many young couples. Originally the Opposition proposed that widows and divorcees should be included in the scheme, that the age limit should be lifted and that the ceiling limit should be lifted. Slowly the Government is coming to recognise the merit in what the Opposition contended 6 long years ago. Six long years have passed and the people concerned have been disadvantaged. Six months have now transpired since the Government was elected with a mandate to initiate the proposals that are in the Bill. The long and unnecessary delay in giving legislative effect to these problems undoubtedly has caused hardship and inconvenience to many couples who have been unable to delay entering into a contract to build or buy a home after waiting for the day when the Government would assist them with their problems. 
The restrictive technicalities of the legislation have already resulted in 15,738 applications being rejected up. to 1969. Nearly 16,000 young couples, or double that number of people, with hopes and expectations of assistance in the financing of their homes, have been disillusioned. They are the people who have suffered. Some 16,000 others have tenaciously battled through the tangle of technicalities to secure a subsidy after having previously been rejected. They needed to be tenacious. To qualify for the maximum benefit a couple must save $1,500. Savings of up to $600 a year in any one year can count towards the grant. My Party's first objection is that many needy young home seekers do not have that kind of savings capacity. It is interesting to note the reasons why people have been rejected. Most of these reasons are not being confronted in the proposals before the House at the moment. It is interesting to establish from the fifth annual report of the Secretary of the Department of Housing that for the year 1968-69 1,062 applicants were rejected on the ground that their savings were not held in an acceptable form. That number represents 24.7% of the total rejections for the year. In addition to that, 742 applicant couples, or 17.3% of the total, were rejected on the ground that their acceptable savings were not held for the limited period of 3 years. Together these 2 groups of rejections represent 42% of the total rejections for the year. The report goes on to outline that publicity was given to the requirement to set up savings in an acceptable account, lt was pointed out that publicity given to this requirement by the Department had been supplemented by extensive advertising by the banks and many building societies and also by television, radio and the Press. One wonders what the total cost of all the advertising of these restrictive provisions and the cost of the pamphlets and booklets was. Just what was it all for, since the Government has now decided that all of these restrictions are not necessary anyway? What was the virtue that this so-called free enterprise Government saw in the regimentation that provided that the savings of young couples had to be in this prescribed kind of account? What is so sacrosanct about savings being in a Government decreed acceptable form? Would it have been less virtuous for a prudent couple to have withdrawn their capital and maybe spent it on land or turned it over in some other investment or to utilise it for the purpose of buying a car should the need arise and then convert it into cash at the time the money was needed for a home? Maybe a couple could utilise (heir savings for the purchase of a caravan and convert it when the money was needed. Is it undesirable for young couples to invest their money on the Stock Exchange or with group investments, government bonds or such safe investing authorities such as electricity authorities or water boards? What would be so undesirable if young couples invested in a lucrative dividend bearing company such as the Lend Lease Corporation Ltd, of which the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  was a director, or L. J. Hooker Ltd, of which a former Treasurer is still a director? What is so unscrupulous about young couples putting their savings in insurance, credit unions or superannuation? What sort of holy cow is there that brings all of this regimentation to bear in an unnecessary way? Would a young member of this Parliament be expected to save other than through his superannuation? In other words, 10,062 appplicants in 1968-69 need not have been rejected at all on the grounds that their savings were not held in an acceptable form. 
Now that the horse has bolted the Government is seeing the folly of its ways in some regards and the legislation is being amended. Will the rejected cases be reviewed favourably and retrospectively? How far back will they be reviewed? Of the cases rejected, 742 were excluded on the ground that acceptable savings were not held for 3 years. Other applications were rejected on the grounds that the value of the home Was in excess of the statutory limit. Last year the Government rejected 765 applications  -  17.8% of the total - because the value of the home exceeded the statutory limit of $15,000. In fact, the Government does not really care what a home costs. It has never shown any interest in this matter. Interest rates have run riot to such an extent that in the period of their loan people are paying more than double the capital which they borrow. This problem is becoming more serious as each year goes by. 
In 1967-68 only 442 applications were rejected on the grounds that the value of the home exceeded the limit but 765 appli cations were rejected last year. There is an unaccountable lack of discretion in dealing with applicants. The same house could cost greatly varying amounts according to the part of Australia in which it is built. Land and building costs are much higher in Sydney and Perth, for example, than they are in other capital cities. The Government in effect is saying that it wants to encourage young people to save, but not to save too much. The Government is saying: 'You cannot go in for a decent sized house. We want you to live in boxes - not big boxes but little boxes - that cannot cost more than $15,000 or when this Bill is passed cannot cost more than $17,500'. Who has the greatest commitment to saving: The couple with the low mortgage or the couple with the high mortgage? After all, the purpose of this Bill is to encourage people to save. Why is the Government so concerned about this unnecessary restriction? A couple aspiring to build a modest home would save so much money. The maximum limit at the moment is $15,000 and the proposed maximum limit will be $17,500. This figure includes the value of the land, the home and other improvements. Obviously, when these restrictions are laid out young couples with capacity can find a way over problems of this kind. 
I know people who have built their homes and left many of the improvements until the home was completed.. They succeeded in attracting a housing grant and, of course, after the grant was made available they set about providing fences, paths, garages and things of this kind. But the unsuspecting can get trapped by technicalities such as the one to which I have referred. If time permitted 1 would have been able to enunciate many other technicalities. If one set out deliberately to contrive a series of traps to discourage young people from what is supposed to be the genuine purpose of this legislation one could not do better than come up with this unholy schemozzle which in no effective way represents the answer to the housing problems being encountered by thousands of young couples and, indeed, the home hungry public throughout Australia. 

 - Mr Chairman, the matter which is at present before the Committee has been a subject of controversy for a considerable period. I feel that the Committee would be remiss if the Minister in charge of this legislation at the table now, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  did not take the opportunity to convey publicly the reason why the Government has resisted the overtures made on behalf of the credit union movement. 
This matter has been canvassed in another place on previous occasions. It was the subject of enormous controversy and of a major political crisis. I recall that occasion very well. At that time, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was in the other place and was at the helm of the Government parties which were in opposition to the credit union movement. 
Recently, the credit unions of this country, which have reached very large proportions now, held their national conference. Foremost among their considerations was their desire to have their movement included among the lending authorities whichbenefit under the provisions of the Homes Savings Grant Act. There are only 3 recognised financial institutions in which people may deposit their savings as distinct from investments. These are the savings 'banks, the building societies and the credit unions. As my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  has pointed out the credit union movement is the only one excluded from the operations of the homes savings grant scheme. I think that everyone has the right to know the reason for this exclusion. Is it a philosophical prejudice on the part of the Government and Government members who perhaps have some preference for major banking institutions? Do they in fact wish to discourage the expansion and growth of the credit union movement which already is starting to assume significant proportions in this country as it has done already in many other parts of the world? 
It is interesting to note that the conditions imposed by the Government in offering to admit the credit unions to this scheme are such that the credit unions almost certainly are unable to meet these conditions. I think that perhaps the most significant part of the second reading speech by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  was when he said referring to credit unions, and after outlining the various conditions to be imposed, said: 
It is appreciated that very few, if any, credit unions are as yet in a position to meet these conditions. 
Is it just accidental that the credit unions will be excluded or did the Government look at all the difficulties and say: 'We will create sufficient difficulties to ensure that they just do not get into this scheme at all'. Fancy the Minister saying that the purpose of the legislation, amongst other things, is to include credit unions and then saying that it is appreciated that very few, if any, credit unions are in a position to meet these conditions. Obviously the matter needs some explanation. I know the size of the movement and I would remind the Minister of the significance of the Government's rejection by imposing these insuperable difficulties. According to the publication Credit Unions and the Economy' by B. B. Dickinson, B.Com., A.A.U.Q., A.B.I.A., an economist with the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd, the credit union movement in this country is very large indeed. He says: 
There are  now  approximately 600 credit unions  in  Australia representing nearly 220,000 persons with total assets of about $100m. Credit unions are strongest in NSW where there are 330 unions with 160,000 members and assets totalling nearly $50m, while Victoria has 163 credit unions with assets of around $8m. 
He then goes on to outline the phenomenal growth of the credit union movement. 
The conditions imposed seem to be purposely designed to exclude the credit unions. They must direct 20% of their total lending to assist members to acquire homes. I think it has been carefully ascertained that the diverse demands of credit unions are such that very few, if any, actually meet that condition. So the 20% figure seems to have been arrived at for the express purpose of providing an effective barrier. A minimum of $50,000 must be lent in a year for housing at $7i% per annum on a reducing balance basis. This is a very hard matter to resolve when one starts talking about interest rates. It depends on the kind of interest system that operates. A great deal has been said about this and I am sure that most honourable members have had the detailed submission - it numbers some 5 pages - of all the credit unions in this country which was formally conveyed direct to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin). 
During the course of the second reading debate no explanation at all was given as why these insurmountable conditions have been imposed. I take this opportunity to prevail upon the Minister to come clean. Does he intend to impose conditions that will discourage people from belonging to the credit union movement? Is the Government intending to make people - especially young people - realise that there is just no prospect of them receiving assistance for the financing of their homes if they continue to belong to credit unions. In Canada where legislation similar to the homes savings grant legislation operates there was an entirely different approach. The credit union was among the first to be accommodated. There was a deliberate policy to accommodate credit unions. I believe the Government should adopt a positive attitude. It should recognise that these are small groups of people who have an affinity for each other. It is most unreasonable to impose financial limitations on the capital they hold because that would be against the basic principles of credit unions. One of the important basic purposes of credit unions is to provide democratic processes and practices by which people can have a say in the regulation and deployment of their collective savings. In small establishments, such as banks, electricity authorities or retail organisations, these processes and obligations are undertaken with the utmost seriousness and a democratic practice operates. 
To require the credit unions to have a large amount of capital in excess of $50,000 obviously has the effect of defeating the basic democratic purpose of the movement. I hope that the Government, and especially the Minister, will not hide behind any ritual of the Committee but will be frank and give the genuine reasons why the Government has so persistently stood against the admittance of the credit union movement to the home savings grant scheme. 
 Mr Chairman,  I just want to say a few words- 
I cannot hear the interjection, if it is worth hearing. 
Well, I think the Minister for Customs and Excise is being highly presumptuous. I have not said a word to indicate which clause of the Bill I will speak about. Does he consider everything that concerns the housing of the people of this country repetitious? I take it that the Minister is making it perfectly clear to the Committee that he does not regard the legislation as having any value. Is he criticising his own Government? 
I wish to raise a matter which I thought would concern the Minister for Customs and Excise. It is in connection with clause 8 which refers to the residential requirement that a person to be eligible for a grant must bc an Australian citizen throughout the period of 3 years immediately preceding the prescribed date. This is dealt with in proposed new section 14c (c)(i). I think that even the Minister for Customs and Excise whose disinterest is very apparent probably would know that the prescribed date relates to the period when a person enters into a contract to purchase or to build a home. It is interesting to note that, under the heading 'Failure to Meet the 3 Year Residential Requirement' the last annual report on the operations on the Homes Savings Grant Act indicates that 399 people were rejected  last year.  That is  9.3%  of total rejections. In fact, 453 applicants were rejected in the previous year. I cannot help but wonder why we must have this provision at all. When all is said and done, the people who were rejected  On  this score would probably be predominantly new Australians arriving in this country for the first time. 
As the honourable member for Wide Bay says, a lot of British migrants as well. It is possibly fair to say that these are people who need homes. They arrive here and they are in need of a home. We arc told that, of some 185,000 migrants who will come to Australia in 1970, approximately one-third will settle in the West. In Fremantle and Perth, a very serious shortage of homes exist. Homes are very expensive there. I do not know where these people will live. They could be people who have saved diligently over the years and who have brought their savings with them. They could be people who are able to establish that they have met all the requirements regarding savings in the United Kingdom or in whatever country from which they happen to come. They may have bank books or certified statements which can be checked out in our overseas posts. In every possible respect, they could have complied with the conditions that people are required to comply with in Australia. 
They come from a foreign land to this land. 1 do not suppose anyone will quibble with the contention that these people would be among the most hungry section of people in Australia. Yet, the Bill provides that these people are not to be accommodated by its provisions for 3 years. That is to say, if these people fulfil their housing requirement by way of buying or building a home they will be excluded forever from the benefits of this legislation. Does anyone suggest seriously that a person arriving in a place like Perth or Fremantle can rent a home? If these people are unable to rent homes and they commit the offence of buying homes to fulfil their essential housing needs and to provide a roof over the heads of their families, they are excluded forever from the possibility of obtaining benefit under this legislation. In this regard, they are rendered second class citizens. 
This kind of discrimination does not apply in other countries. An Australian going to London has an entitlement under the council housing scheme as much as a person who was born in England has. In New Zealand the Government has a scheme which involves the capitalisation of child endowment for housing purposes. Without any residential qualification at all, an Australian going to New Zealand is entitled to derive that benefit once he registers in that country as a citizen of that country. So, it seems to me that here is another shibboleth, another holy cow or another one of the desecrations of the reasonable principle that this legislation is built upon to make it more difficult for the most needy people in this country. 
If honourable members analyse the figures which have been set out to indicate the reasons why members of our new Australian community return to the countries from which they came, they will find that employment and the difficulty in obtaining houses are rated very highly. Why do we exclude these people from eligibility under the scheme simply because they have come from another land when they have a very serious housing need and especially when they are able to show, as many of them could if they were required to show, that they have saved in the same manner as Australians have saved to qualify for the benefits of this legislation? The Minister claimed that this matter or any matter concerning the Bill should not be brought up. ls he able to reply to the points 1 have made? Is he able to refute them? Docs he not concede that new Australians have a serious housing problem? Does he not concede that many of them have saved in other countries and may have established eligibility? Does he not concede that Australian diplomatic posts could check this out? All the qualities of thrifty people which would enable them to qualify for the grant can be found in new Australians. 
I think this provision is completely unnecessary and should be eliminated from the Bill. I think it has been a most distressing night in total in that every point that has been made, with one small exception, has been completely disregarded by the Government. No attempt has been made to give any answer at all, particularly to the question of the credit unions. I would like to know from the Minister why it is necessary for divorced people to have a dependent child to become eligible for this benefit. It is not necessary for a widow or for other young couples to have a dependent child. Surely the fundamental criterion in this matter should be that the applicant has a housing need and that he has met the requirements in respect of savings. 
Is the Minister intending to give any intelligent answer to the question? 
I am not dogmatic in saying that the Minister should answer this. I ask' any honourable member opposite or Minister whether any explanation can be given about this unnecessary restriction which requires divorced people to have dependent children to enable them to qualify under this legislation whereas widows and other young couples do not need to have dependent children. I contend it is unnecessary, just as it is unnecessary to require migrants to meet a 3-year residential qualification. I would hope that the next time this legislation is being amended these unnecessary restrictions will be removed. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Why does his Department prevent STD calls to Robertson, New South Wales, being connected through the Bowral exchange. 
How is this procedure reconciled with the STD information contained on page 10 of the 1969 Sydney telephone directory that if you are calling a manual exchange marked (M) you should dial the area code and ask the operator for the wanted exchange and subscriber's number. 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice: 
What (a) salary, (b) electorate allowance and (c) travel facilities are extended to Members of the House of Assembly for the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Are all expatriate personnel in the administrative service of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea eligible for superannuation and retirement benefits; if not, which personnel categories are excluded. 
At what age are retirement benefits payable. 
What is the basis of retirement benefits paid in respect of voluntary retirement undertaken before the official retirement age is reached. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice - 
What consideration has been extended to the proposal that a reciprocal agreement should be negotiated between Australia and Malta which would have the effect of extending to migrants from Malta of British nationality the same social service benefits which accrue to migrants from Britain and New Zealand. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What Department of Civil Aviation Hegulations are designed to: 
minimise the risk of aircraft sabotage and 
prevent stowaways on internal and overseas aircraft services. 
Did the fatality involving a stowaway youth who fell from a Japan Air Lines DC8 at Sydney on 22nd February 1970 result from any departure from regular precautionary measures; if not, are these measures inadequate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Will soundproof sleeping quarters be provided for personnel at the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Learmonth in Western Australia as recommended by the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the number and classification of persons employed in his Department who receive a weekly wage (a) less than the basic wage and (b) with a margin over the basic wage of (i) less than $1, (ii) between $1 and $2, (m) between $2 and $3, (iv) between $3 and $4, (v) between $4 and $5, (vi) between $5 and $6, (vii) between $6 and $7, (viti) between $7 and $8, (ix) between $8 and $9, (x) between $9 and $10, (xi) between SIO and $15 and (xii) between $15 and $20. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has consideration been given to the request for a higher rate of pension for social service recipients in the Northern Territory in view of the disparity in purchasing power of pensions in the Territory as against that in other parts of the Commonwealth. 
If so, with what result 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. The honourable gentleman will know that restrictions on local government finances have led to a policy by local government of forcing developers to provide many community facilities and that these extra costs are simply passed on to home purchasers, forcing land prices upwards. Is it a fact that the recently announced increases in Commonwealth bond rates will accentuate the pressures on local government authorities thus leading to even further inflation in land prices? Does the Treasurer have any proposal to alleviate the difficulties being experienced by home builders as a result of the increase in bond rates? 
The honourable member for Newcastle suggests by way of interjection that the people who live near these bases will get nothing. I have had the opportunity of glancing quickly at the transcript of evidence in relation to this matter. I understand that this is not readily available to other honourable members. I have not had an opportunity to read the transcript carefully but my recollection of what was said during the inquiry, reinforced by a quick examination of the transcript, leads me to the view that the Department felt that there could be some way to remedy the situation by the installation of architectural aids if it were found, as a result of the investigations of the special committee that is applying itself to this matter, that such a problem did represent a hazard, an inconvenience and a detriment to the health of the personnel concerned. 
My attitude to the amendment that has been moved is that as a member of the Public Works Committee I would not be at all averse to the matter being referred again to the Committee for further examination. I do not think anything would be lost if such a course were pursued and it could well be that the expert committees which are looking at acoustical factors in respect of Commonwealth establishments will have a preliminary report upon which some action could be taken at this stage, if necessary, in respect of the Pearce development. My purpose in rising is principally to assure the honourable member for Newcastle and other honourable members that members of the Public Works Committee are justifiably concerned about this matter, since it received the priority attention of the Parliament and was treated so significantly by the Parliament. The Public Works Committee has regarded the matter significantly and in any future inquiry the consideration of all these aspects will receive high priority. It may not yet be too late to do something which could have beneficial and advantageous effects on the design and development of the Pearce establishment. 
All 1 want to say, following an informal inquiry from the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  in respect of the 5 houses being built at Los Negros Island is that the members of the Committee seemed to be quite unanimous in their view that there is not likely to be any hazard from aircraft noise at this naval base. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The discusisons about the national health scheme during the 1969 election campaign involved a fairly pedantic consideration of costs. I understand that at this point of time the essential framework of the scheme still1 remains unresolved. I have gathered from the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that there is a possibility of the debate on this legislation at the Committee stage being deferred to enable further discussions to take place with the medical profession. It seems to me that this scheme has been undertaken with undue haste. Whilst I believe that the medical profession is entitled to consideration in the formation of a new health scheme, it seems to me that it is one thing to afford consideration but that it is another thing to go overboard and to bc led by the nose to such an extent that the welfare of the community of this country has to take second place. 
This current crop of hastily prescribed antidotes to the nation's ailing health scheme first and foremost, in my view, is a reflection of the recklessness of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the fact that he went into the election campaign without having properly prepared the grounds for the submissions he made on behalf of his Party. He was confronted by a carefully contrived and comprehensive health scheme that had been put forward in a lucid and documented form by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam). His  reaction was almost to go into a state of blind panic. The Australian Labor Party had served notice that the gross injustices and the unaccountable inadequacies of the existing scheme were not longer to be tolerated, and there was much to show that the people supported the Labor Party in this view. The Opposition's proposals were designed to provide adequate coverage for a wider and more comprehensive range of health services than had ever before been contemplated in this country. Health services were to be financed on a fair and equitable basis by the utilisation of the taxation system. The effect of this, of course, would be that the people would contribute to the cost of the scheme according to their capacity to pay. 
The proposals made by the Leader of the Opposition were based on a unique and intense study by 2 distinguished economists, J. B. Deeble and R. V. Scotton, under the auspices of the Institute of Applied Economic Research of the University of Melbourne. This survey of health care under the voluntary health insurance scheme and the evidence put before the Senate Select Committee on Hospital and Medical Costs highlighted the wasteful and extravagant features of the health scheme that has developed under 20 years of Liberal administration and under some years of the administration of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  The Prime Minister's reactions to these revelations and the positive proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition was to give impetuous and illconceived undertakings. In other words, there was a hotch-potch of half conceived proposal's heaped one on top of the other as election expediency dictated. Left to placate the rising resentment of both the public and the medical profession is a harrassed and exasperated Minister for Health who does not seem to know where he is. He is bringing up the rear like a drover's dog in a dustbowl, making little additions to the scheme as each day goes by. 
According to the Prime Minister, his scheme was to cost $l6m, but the cost has now escalated to $32m. It is only a matter of doubling the cost because the Government has changed its mind between the time one statement was made to this House and the next statement was made. It seems that at this point of time the matter is still not going to be resolved. It represents some kind of deceit when at election time the Prime Minister went into a pedantic discussion about how much one party's scheme would cost against another and when we now find that after the debate on this Bill has started alterations to the proposals have been made that will double the cost of important facets of the scheme. 
This Bill incorporates all the major shortcomings represented by the multiplicity of hospital and medical benefit funds, the useless and expensive competition in which they engage, the duplicated facilities financed from contributors' funds and the hoarding of massive reserves. It perpetuates the gross deficiencies in the existing health scheme. Among the many services still excluded from the health scheme of this country but included in the health schemes of other countries are a full and adequate dental and optical service, home nursing, physiotherapy, chiropractic services, geriatric and rehabilitation services, a variety of domiciliary services, and support for an effective outpatient system in hospitals. There are deficiencies in the existing legislation which have been the subject of debate in this Parliament time after time and which will be perpetuated. 
We have been told by Government supporters that it is a very valuable scheme, but from the standpoint of the community the first undesirable feature about it is that there will be a substantial increase in contributions by those required to join hospital and medical funds. One wonders why oral surgery is covered by this new proposal but not the care of teeth generally. One wonders why hearing aids can be provided but not artificial limbs, and why eye surgery by ophthalmologists is now facilitated when no provision is made for the supply of spectacles and the general care of eyes and sight. One wonders why the pensioner medical service is to be left in its present static state. Only the services of general practitioners will be covered and those of the specialist will be excluded so that a pensioner who requires specialist services - and who knows who will require specialist services - will have to join funds at the same rate as other more wealthy citizens. 
Then of course we have paraplegics and quadriplegics whose problems and whose need for facilities are to be relegated in the future, as they have been in the past, to the endeavours of worthy charitable organisations rather than being catered for by the public services of this country. We also have a need for research into muscular dystrophy, which I understand at this point of time has come to a standstill for want of adequate research funds. We know that public hospitals in Australia are in debt. We know that almost every community needs psychiatric wards and geriatric facilities at its public hospitals. We know that psychiatric services generally are almost non-existent in regions that cover a great area, and they are not to be provided under any provision of this Bill. There is no provision for psychiatric services of a preventive or curative nature. We know there is a need for therapists of various types and social workers to work alongside doctors in the prescrition of drugs and the regulation of their effect. But none of these fundamental matters are receiving any consideration under this Bill. 
The quality of our public hospitals has not received any consideration in the formulation of this scheme. There is a need for a regionalised hospital system throughout Australia. This should be instituted in this country as it is being instituted in other countries, lt would ensure that in every region there is a decent hospital with modern lifesaving equipment and that there is adequate road transport and even helicopter transport, if necessary. Such transport is being provided in Canada and in other countries. The scheme also would ensure that there was effective staffing in hospitals through the employment of specialist medical expertise on either a salary or fees basis. Can anyone justify the retention of the discredited honorary system of servicing public hospitals? The Nimmo Committee inquired into this matter and recommended that something should be done about it, but to the present the recommendations have been disregarded. Is the Government aware that doctors treating patients in our hospitals are often inadequately remunerated and that in many cases they are not remunerated at all? Is The Government still oblivions of the fact that some doctors in our public hospitals perform services which are well and truly beyond their capacity and their competence, and that they use public hospital facilities without supervision and often undertake work for which they have no proper training? 
We are reminded of the television series  Dr Kildare',  One of the features that distinguishes the hospitals of our country from those in other countries is that we have plenty of  Dr Kildares.  We seem to be very short of  Dr Gillespie.  - those competent people who, because of their expert training, their experience and their proficiency in the profession, take on supervisory roles in our public hospitals. We need to look very seriously at this matter. The antithesis of this unsatisfactory situation is to attract doctors to the service of public hospitals by offering them decent salaries, sensible hours of work and good facilities, and providing them with periodical sabbatical leave. By these means patients seeking treatment would have the assurance and the certainty that every form of speciality necessary to treat sickness would be available in every eventuality. But none of these basic needs is to be fulfilled by the provisions of the Bill before the House. Instead we have but a facade of a health service, the principal purpose of which is to ensure the payment of doctors. Even this, from what 1 can gather, is to their disservice and apparently still is not satisfactory to them. So the Government does not seem to be handling things effectively at any level at all. 
Why was the Nimmo Committee denied the terms of reference necessary to enable it to undertake a comprehensive inquiry into all facets of Australia's health services? Why was it prevented from inquiring into alternative methods of financing health services instead of being limited to the consideration of voluntary insurance? In a recriminatory indictment the Committee heaped criticism on the voluntary insurance scheme and went as far as it could, in its 42 proposed reforms, short of recommending that the voluntary insurance scheme be abandoned altogether. I have noted pages and pages of references in the report of the Nimmo Committee to the inadequency of the voluntary insurance scheme. Yet the Government has persisted with this scheme. Wc know all the vital statistics about voluntary insurance. They have been talked about in the Parliament for long enough. We know that there are 106 hospital benefit organisations which cover 9.4 million people or 77% of the population. But the significant fact is that they are not covering 23% of the population, and among that percentage of course are the people who need health services most of all - the sick, the impoverished, those suffering from malnutrition, those who receive sickness benefits and the Aboriginal. We know that there are 78 medical benefit organisations. These cover 74% of the population, which leaves 26% who are not covered by medical services. 
We have read about the high cost of management. So far as medical funds are concerned, management costs go as high as 21.29%. These figures have been extracted from the annual report of the Department of Health. For hospital funds the range of management costs is from 11% to 13%. Jf one deliberately set out to contrive a scheme which culminated in a shemozzle and involved great burdens, great management complications, enormous overhead expenses and duplicated buildings, one just could not come up with anything more satisfactory than the scheme we have at the present time. The Nimmo Committee said that an unduly high proportion of the contributions received by some organisations is absorbed in operating expenses. Yet the Government persists with this scheme. It disregards the high reserves which have been accumulated at the expense of the sick people of this country. Over the last 8 years $100m in health insurance contributions has been diverted info activities which are not related to health services in any way at all. The Nimmo Committee made recommendations to control the investment of reserves and to ensure that the public interest is safeguarded. These recommendations have been denied by the Government in the preparation of this legislation. 
I ask honourable gentlemen opposite: Why has the  Government  made voluntary insurance the corner stone of this Bill? Is it pursuing the myth that there is some high principle in allowing people to be unprotected against the high cost of health services? Surely this is the possible sequel or product of a voluntary health insurance scheme. If it is voluntary it is possible that people will not acquiesce. Does the Government regard this as a matter of principle, that they should be given the opportunity to be unprotected? Of course, the very opposite is desirable. Any government which fails to ensure that all people are adequately covered to meet such eventualities is falling down on its responsibilities. I believe that is happening in this country today. Is there any economic justification for the continuation of a voluntary insurance scheme with its multiplicity of funds, its duplicated buildings and management, and its high reserves and so on? The Nimmo Committee, which was set up by the Government, has recommended rationalisation of the fierce competitive situation in which these funds are involved. I point to the following part of the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee. 
In our view only one open fund should be permitted to establish facilities for the enrolment of members and collection of contributions in any one region. 
What was the reason for the Government disregarding the report of this expert Committee which was appointed by the Government itself? If we accept this scheme it will perpetuate the shemozzle which has been costing the people of this country such a large amount of money over such a long period of time. In my view, if voluntary insurance is necessary, only one fund is needed, and a publicly owned voluntary insurance commission would be the best scheme to adopt. Perhaps a more equitable approach is to finance health services from taxation just as we finance education, social welfare and most other public services in this country. Why does the Government in relation to health matters and most social service matters take the view that everybody should pay the same amount regardless of their income. 
The Government, from the standpoint of the contributors, seems to have rendered a very grave disservice. The weekly contributions by families will be increased under the provisions of the Bill by 25% over the highest existing table. This will be applicable to every citizen in Australia. Everybody will be required to pay a lot more for voluntary insurance than ever before. A contributor in New South Wales who pays on the highest scale of 60c a week will now have to pay 75c a week. This is what the Government calls an improved health service. In other States the contribution rates will rise from 50c to an average of66c a week. That is nor all. In addition to the substantial increase in contribution the contributor will still pay 80c for each general practitioner consultation and $1.20 for each home visit. 
The A M A has been promised frequent revisions of fees. This is not provided for in the legislation. I do not think  the  Government has really settled this issue. 
The essential basis of the common fee arrangement is that an authority will be set up to undertake a periodical review of fees. I will be surprised if the AMA ever accepts the arrangement offered today. There is no question that costs throughout the country will rise, and doctors could be disadvantaged as time goes by. But who knows? Since there is nothing written into the legislation in this regard there could be frequent increases in fees, in which event increases in contributions will follow, time after time, to the disadvantage of the contributors. 
Another novel innovation is that one table of benefits is to operate in each State. Yet the funds will have the prerogative of charging the fees at varying rates. Different contribution rates will be charged for the same benefit. This will happen in a given State. lt seems to me that many small funds unable to draw on reserves could easily go out of business. That might not be terribly serious, but great inconvenience will be caused to the members of those funds. They will suddenly be rendered memberless, and possibly will be left unprotected in regard to medical and hospital services. The common fee concept, in my view, is essential for those who wish to work within the scheme. Doctors should be free to choose between participation and non-participation in the scheme. 
For the benefit of those who have ventured some kind of comment on the policy of the Labor Party but who it seems to me have never read Labor's policy on this matter, I would just like to read one aspect of that policy. I believe it is very significant and in sharp contrast to what is being offered from the other side of the political spectrum in this country. The Labor Party says that it stands for the provision of general practitioner medical services staffed by salaried medical practitioners willing to join, and available without charge and without means test to persons who choose to use such services. We put it on an entirely voluntary basis. I personally oppose the discriminatory fee concept. I do not consider myself to be an expert on these matters. In politics these days there is a cliche about equal pay for work of equal value, ft seems to me that where a service is rendered by a member of the medical profession it should attract the same fee whether that member is registered as a specialist or is regarded as a general practitioner. 
I have never upheld the feature that is incorporated in this legislation and known as the deterrent factor. I oppose financial deterrents in hospitalisation and surgery. I do not believe that these are necessary. We have a $5 deterrent in regard to surgery. I think that this is an unnecessary doctrinaire encumbrance to this or any other health scheme. We do not need a deterrent against a surgical operation, for example, a confinement, having a lung removed, a breast removed or a finger lanced. In the United States of America substantial voluntary insurance funds recognise this fact. The United States Blue Cross fund pays 100% of all standard hospital and surgery bills, and I am quite convinced that we should do the same. My great concern about the legislation is that it was hastily contrived and, it seems to me, ill-conceived. It is endeavouring to overcome some apparent problems, but the predominance of the problems which have been the scourge of this country for decades, from the time the free hospitalisation concept was denied and abandoned by this Government, will remain unattended. To the extent to which the Bill could alleviate sickness and suffering and contribute to the availability of quality hospital and medical care, it has my support. However, I hold few hopes for its success. 
I believe that the day is fast approaching when a Labor Government will be called on to introduce an Australian health service which will be complete, equitable and humane. I am sure that when that day comes the important principle that will operate for the benefit of the people of this country will bc the availability of high quality health services. Doctors will be certain to co-operate because they will recognise that if given the opportunity to work in good, well equipped hospitals they will be doing the best possible service for humanity. This is the emphasis of the Labor Party's policy. It is concerned not simply with financing a health scheme but with ensuring that there is quality in medical care and regard for the patient's welfare. To that extent the proposal of the alternative scheme, the health scheme put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at the last federal election, will represent  a  benefit and advantage to the entire Australian community. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  does not seem to be aware that throughout the length and breadth of Australia today there is a spontaneous concern about the situation in Vietnam and the escalation into Cambodia. He seems to be unaware that this phenomenon in Australia is typical of that which is developing right around the world. The moratorium is not about violence at all - in fact, the very antithesis prevails. Violence can result only if it is provoked by this Government, by its lackeys and by its provocateurs. Those of us who are here in this Parliament today, instead of being where we would like to be among the people who are seeking peace, are wondering what provocative actions are likely to take place. We saw for ourselves only the other day outside the front of this building the Nazi emblems being handed around, the crackers being let off and people doing their utmost to stir up trouble in what was a peaceful demonstration. The Moratorium and the policy of the Australian Labor Party are not about violence but about compassion, conciliation in international affairs and the brotherhood of man. I think it would interest the honourable member for Diamond Valley, who referred to various elements of the Labor Party's organisation, to know of the determination made by the highest forum of our Party in its recent meeting on 26th February about Vietnam and that troubled part of the world. The Federal Executive of the Party resolved, in part: 
This Executive pays tribute to those in the community whose efforts are directed in  a  peaceful manner towards an awakening conscience and stirring compassion in the minds and hearts of the Australian people in the tragic horror that is Vietnam. We believe the time has arrived, indeed is long overdue, when all people, irrespective of politics or ideological outlook, should demand of the Australian Government mat we get out of Vietnam now. 
That is where the Labor Party stands in a clear and unequivocal way. I believe that regardless of the technicalities of gallup polls the hearts and minds of Australian people are trending towards that end. 
The honourable member, despite all his pedanticism about atrocities here and atrocities there - and the Opposition never loses an opportunity to condemn them wherever they may be and regardless of who is responsible for committing them - should recall the terrible human suffering and human devastation which is the story of Vietnam. Pedanticism is not good enough and effective enough to sweep away these important considerations, for above all else is humanity. Disclosures recently made in this House reveal that no fewer than 750,000 enemy and allied troops have been killed in Vietnam since 1961 -  i  million human beings. When one starts to weigh up the extent of the suffering - the sequel to that kind of human devastation - in terms of families affected, one can start to measure the tragedy of this situation. Australia already has lost 400 dead in Vietnam since our involvement commenced. The United States of America has lost 40,000 dead servicemen. South Vietnamese servicemen killed number 103,500. Then, of course, there are the untold thousands who have been wounded. So far 2,500 Australian personnel have been injured in this conflict. We are told that no fewer than 269,000 Americans have been wounded in the course of battle in Vietnam. The cost of war is terrible and appalling and we want to see the war terminated. We want to see a cessation of the war as soon as possible. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley has spoken of the signatories to the Moratorium. I ask him to go through the list of signatories which has been publicised in various newspapers in recent days. Whilst he may be able to find I or 2 known Communists or card carrying Communists, as he claimed, there is no question that he will find a very effective cross section of the Australian community. He will find distinguished journalists, such as Margaret Jones and Geraldine Pascall. He will find prominent architects, such as Don Gazzard, Ian Mackay and Harry Seidler. He will find outstanding writers, such as Thomas Keneally, Cyril Pearl and Colin Simpson. He will find distinguished artists, such as Gordon Andrews, Charlie Blackman and Bruce Petty. So it goes on. There are many other people under various headings. 
It all adds up to an indication of public concern about the continuing drift to an international conflict which can assume proportions which we have never previously known. In the last published list of sponsors of the Moratorium, one finds 114 school teachers, 15 actors, 17 distinguished musicians, 28 leading Australian journalists, 47 student leaders, 81 prominent academics, 21 minister of religion - people of all faith - 26 architects, 25 writers and 52 artists. 
In addition to these, of course, hundreds of trade unionists and, 1 am very proud to say, a number of members of the Parliamentary Labor Party have added their signatures to those of people who are calling for a cessation of this war. 
I have risen in this debate, which is a debate on supply, to express my concern at the diversion of funds in this country from purposes which are essential to the welfare of the people to causes associated with the Vietnam war. In view of the extent to which our own people are suffering - though in a much lesser way than those who live in Vietnam - we can only be concerned at the indifference of the Government and its failure to be more positive, or positive at all, in the pursuit of peace. In the debates that have preceded the present debate we have applied ourselves to the consideration of questions concerning the nation's health and the housing and education of our people, and in every regard, no matter what test one applies, this Government is found wanting, that it has let the Australian people down. There is grave dissatisfaction throughout the countryside. People are marching and meeting in order to get a better deal from the arbitration system. Farmers are marching through Melbourne in their thousands. When we look at the cost of the Vietnam war, we can understand the reason for this. So it was with some gratification that last night we received an indication that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had had second thoughts about his enthusiastic embracing of the unhappy developments in Cambodia. Accordingly, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has caused the Parliament to apply itself to the consideration of the Prime Minister's important statement. The Prime Minister, in Tokyo yesterday, is reported to have said: 
It would be in the interests of peace there . . . 
He was referring to Cambodia:  if the North Vietnamese, the Vietcong, the South Vietnamese - all those in Cambodia - were to withdraw and allow a truly neutral Cambodia. 
The effect of the amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is to support the Prime Minister. We will be 
Interested to ascertain the extent to which the Prime Minister will be left out on his own by his henchmen in this place. 
The honourable member for Angas is interjecting. Is he doubting the authenticity of the report? lt appeared today in newspapers throughout Australia. One would have thought that it would have been regarded so significantly that the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  would have been on his feet giving further amplification of this apparent change of heart. We have moved the following amendment:   . . this House supports the Prime Minister's call for the withdrawal of Vietcong, North Vietnamese and South Vietnamese troops from Cambodia and for the neutrality of that country to be guaranteed through the revived International International Control Commission or through the United Nations. 
This is in keeping with what the Prime Minister has advocated in Tokyo. Anyone who cares to check my contention will find the report in today's Australian Press. In moving the amendment the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition voiced the official policy of the Labor Party, which involves not only the withdrawal of the South Vietnamese and North Vietnamese from Cambodia, but also the withdrawal of all foreign troops not only from Cambodia but from the lndoChina region, lt seems to me that the Prime Minister's change of heart must be evidence of the public opinion which is taking its toll of distinguished people and world leaders in many countries. 
The concern for world reaction to the United States escalation in Cambodia has manifested itself in many dramatic ways. For example, it. has manifested itself in the way 1 have indicated - by full page advertisements by distinguished people in this country appearing in the Press, by demonstrations in Australia and by the action of the heads of 200 universities and colleges in the United States who have asked to see the United States  President  in order to seek an explanation from him as to his unjustifiable action. There does not seem to be any likelihood that an Australisn Prime Minister would speak with 2 voices on this matter. The belligerence which he displayed for local consumption in his contribution on Tuesday night to the debate on Vietnam was in a changed situation. 
It seems to me that this is one of the most unhappy developments that has occurred in the Indo-China situation. Cambodian neutrality, held by Prince Sihanouk, has been the great hope of Indo-China. The neutral leadership of the Prince was worth upholding as the only hope of preventing escalation of the war. We have a right to speculate as  to  who had an insufficient appreciation of his worth and who organised the coup. For many of us there seems to be far too close a pattern concerning the deposing of the Prince in Cambodia and the manner in which discredited puppet leaders of South Vietnam have been deposed in previous times. The unfortunate thing about the Cambodian war and recent developments is that there had been an indication that the nations and factions concerned in this unhappy war were about to realise the benefits and value of coming back to the conference table. I was interested to read in the 'Age' of 20th April 1970 an article under the heading "Hanoi may be ready for wider peace talks'. The article stated. 
The Nixon Administration is watching closely what might be the first indication that Hanoi is ready to reopen negotiations for a settlement of the Vietnam war in a wider forum. 
It goes on to indicate that  Mr Jacob  Malik, the Soviet Union's chief delegate to the United Nations, had said that a Geneva conference could bring about a fresh solution and a relaxation of tension in the Indo-China peninsula. There seemed to be an indication of a conciliatory attitude on the part of the Soviet Union at that stage. The Minister for External Affairs, prior to the entry of the United States into Cambodia, seemed to give some indication of satisfaction with the developing situation. At Bangkok on 16th April he was asked this question: 
How would you see the future of South East Asia, once the Americans pull back forces from South Vietnam? 
The Minister replied: 
That, as you know, it is too speculative. 1 feel so far as South Vietnam is concerned the process of Vietnamisation is proceeding satisfactorily. I couldn't go any further and I would not. under any circumstances, try and speculate about the long term possibilities there. 
But the point is that he was indicating his satisfaction with the processes of Vietnamisation. I was interested to note that some hope was also being expressed by the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  who was reported to have said on 2nd May that he regretted  Mr Nixon's  decision to permit the joint United States-South Vietnamese advance into the Parrot's Beak zone of Cambodia. He went on to emphasise that the decision would jeopardise the Asian and Pacific conference to be held in Indonesia. So he was obviously disturbed at the development which took place as the result of the escalation of the war into that country. 
The great value and hope of the conference which was being proposed by the Indonesian Government, through its Foreign Minister, is expressed in the agenda. The most important item on the agenda is the independence and neutralisation of Cambodia. The initiative for this conference was taken by Indonesia. The second agenda item also has some significance. The second agenda item concerns non-intervention and re-activisation of the International Control Commission for Cambodia. That is what the Minister for External Affairs in this country indicated was to be the subject of discussion. Yet soon after this was embraced so willingly by the Minister for External Affairs on 27th April, the Prime Minister followed on 5th May. Of course, the statement by the Prime Minister virtually torpedoed all prospects for the success of the conference in Indonesia. We wonder why there is always a willingness to do the wrong thing in these critical situations. I was most interested to read the following question concerning Cambodia that was asked of the Minister for External Affairs on his arrival at the Sydney airport on 22nd April: 
Can you see a position where Australia, representing Cambodia and also serving to a large extent the interests of South Vietnam, could be in a position where these interests could conflict? 
The Minister said: 
But we don't represent Cambodia now. We represented the US Government. We are not the direct representative of the US now. I cannot think that we arc in a position where our interests can conflict. In fact the representative of the Pnom Penh Government in Saigon is the Japanese. 
Concerning this statement, he has sub.quently said: 
Later I corrected this to say that we did represent the Cambodian Government in SouthVietnam. It docs not involve a conflict of interest. 
So we do represent the Government of South Vietnam. Admittedly the Minister for External Affairs has not been long in his job. One would have thought that even if he had not known whether Australia represented Cambodia in South Vietnam before departing for his Asian tour he would have known by the time he got back. One wonders what the consequences of this incredible blunder might have been in terms of the development of the Cambodian situation and the escalation of the war. The Minister did not know that Cambodia was represented by Australia in South Vietnam. This is the most alarming ineptiness on the part of a Minister for External Affairs that could be imagined. It involved at a most critical time of that disastrous development a breakdown in communications, in fact a denial of responsibility, and certainly a loss of obligation on the part of the Australian Government to do its job effectively in representing the Cambodian situation. Perhaps if there had been proper representation at that critical time we might have been able to have avoided the development of the Cambodian crisis. 
This month marks the anniversary of Australia's dispatch of troops to Vietnam. But this war did not start when Australia went there; nor did it start in 1964 when the United States became involved; nor did the Japanese spark off the spirit that is Vietnam through its occupation in 1941. Even the long and sometimes torrid period of colonialisation by the French, starting in 1847, cannot be identified as the beginning of the struggle for independence in Indo-China. This war started even before Communism prevailed as a political philosophy in that region or in any other region in the world. Foreign invaders have always been repelled by the people of Vietnam regardless of the cost. In terms of human suffering and human lives the sacrifice of this people has no parallel. In the 10 years after the Japanese occupation, the French between 1945 and 1954 killed more than half a million Vietnamese. The United 
Slates, Australia and its allies have taken toll of I million Vietnamese lives since that dale. 
Sixteen years ago the Geneva Convention resolved to end the blood bath and to recognise that the people of Indo-China were determined to remain unaccommodated to any foreign power, even to China, the greatest, strongest and most numerically powerful country in that region. The ballot box was to be the new arsenal for independence, and its use was not conditional on any domino theory or subject to the consideration that one side or the other would win at the polls. Here was a nation of 30 million people claiming for itself what every Australian regards as his birthright - the right to vote and the right of self-government through the ballot box. At the instigation of this Government, we have gone 7,000 miles across the sea, far beyond our bona fine interests, not to uphold the flame of democracy but the extinguish it. Our professed role is to contain Communistm, which we never distinguish from the nationalistic aspirations of the United States in Indo-China The illiterate population of that unhappy region can hardly read the comic cuts, yet they have attributed to them the capacity to write and understand the works of Marx and Lenin. 
Worse still, this Government has added insult to injury by the immoral and inconsistent reasons it gives for Australian involvement. Our half-hearted participation is not designed to win the war in Vietnam but to slavishly acquiesce in subjective sycophancy with a great and powerful friend. Who can claim that the Australian war effort is what the enthusiasts for the war would expect to see? We still wax fat on the stock exchange. We flake out on the beaches. We stack up to expend our substance and affluence in the pubs and clubs from one end of the country to the other. We send a burnt offering. Our concession to the war in Vietnam is but a token burnt offering, a human sacrifice in the form of a few battalions of conscripts. I ask. Why should this Government be talking about withdrawing troops. Does it not still accept the basic justification of this war, which is still upheld and supported by  Sir Robert  Thompson, that the domino theory prevails and that after one country falls another follows? What justification is there for this Government to speak with 2 voices and to talk about withdrawing troops in the present situation? 
We have been warned on countless occasions about the yellow hordes pressing down unrelentingly to Australia to gather up our women and children. Does not this compromise still hold? One wonders why it has changed at this point of time. Are we not involved in Vietnam, according to the Government, to stop the Chinese who are pressing down through the Asian countries steadfastly to Australia? What has changed to justify the withdrawal of troops? Are we not committed to the policy of the Returned Services League, with its sabre rattling and cry of. 'Up guards and at them'? Have we nol always been synchronising Government policy with that point of view? Are we not still committed to all the way with LBJ' or 'all the way with the USA', or has the Government decided to deviate with this talk of withdrawing troops? The justification that we are there to prevent the rape of a sovereign nation cannot be upheld, with the withdrawal of troops. We are told that we are there to promote democracy, but apparently we are willing to get out and leave the country in a undemocratic state in terms of the Government's attitude. We are told that we are there to uphold our SEATO obligation and our ANZUS obligations. We now know that there was no SEATO obligation al all. Britain, France and Pakistan, principal signatories to the agreement that established SEATO, never contemplated participation in that war. We are there to win endearing support from the United States of America, although we enjoyed it by way of a treaty anyway. One starts to wonder how honourable members opposite can condone what they have done in the past and what they propose to do in the future. Our leaders are deviating in 1970 from the declared objectives which sent us into Indo-China. They are deviating from the old shibboleths and the old cliches. They are hearing the voice of the people. I believe that they really see their own position as in jeopardy, and it is for this reason that we are finding this attitude of compromise today. 
I conclude by emphasising that the proper way to bring some assistance or some worthwhile aid to the people of the region  of  Into-Ohina  is to  support in greater measure the concepts of economic aid which other countries have been contributing in greater measure. In the period 1965-68 $1,200 billion has been spent on aid in Asia. The Vietnamese share was $429 billion. That is to say, one-third of all the aid to Asia is provided to South Vietnam, a country with but one-fourteenth of the population. The United States share of the total of $429 billion was $420 billion. Australia contributed only SI. 9m. The cost of Australia's involvement this year in the Vietnam war has been no less than $42m. I think those figures on their own indicate the poor scale of values that prevails in the minds of members of the Government and which the Moratorium 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What crew was carried aboard the inaugural and second Indian-Pacific trains. 
Were crew members charged for meals; if so, what charges and allowances were made. 
At which stopping places where crew members require accommodation are railway barracks (a) available and (b) unavailable. 
What, allowances are provided for accommodation, and are they adequate in view of prevailing charges in the centres concerned. 
 I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 6a. Section 9 of the Principal Act is amended by adding al the end thereof the following subsection: -  "(3.)  The Minister shall not disseminate infor mation under the last preceding sub-section in  a  form that is designed to influence public opinion on a matter as to which the publicly declared policies of political parties represented in the Parliament differ unless those other political parties are given equal facilities at public expense to disseminate their views on that matter.".' 
The Committee has less than 2 hours, as I understand it, to debate 18 clauses of the Bill and I add my protest. This is why it is necessary for me to be brief in respect of this matter. Nevertheless, the amendment is a simple one and I believe that it ought to command the support of the Government. Section 9 (2.) of the Act states: 
The Minister may disseminate information relating to health or the prevention of disease. 
We of the Opposition have no equivocation in saying that provision is justifiable. There is some evidence that the provision has been utilised to good advantage in the past. What we are concerned about is the prospect of propagating at public expense information which is not of a neutral nature from a public standpoint. We uphold the need to disseminate information as it is regarded necessary for the purpose of understanding this very complex Bill. There is no question that it will be necessary to advise general practitioners and specialists, for example, about the discrim:natory fees that will operate. It is also essential that the patients be informed in respect of their benefits. But a very unhappy trend has been developing in recent years and we would not like to see it applied to the National Health Bill. 
I may say as an aside that some honourable members here will recall what was probably a precedent, the occasion when the Government circulated material at public expense through the schools of this country in regard to a matter which was even more controversial than the National Health Bill, namely, our intervention into the Vietnam war. It has already happened on one occasion and we do not want to see it happen again. That material went to schools, universities and sim'lar institutions throughout the country. Many hundreds of thousands of documents were distributed putting the Government's point of view - sheer political propaganda - at public expense. We took a dim view of that and we would similarly take a dim view of any extension of that princ'ple or denial of the important principle to which I have referred. After all, compounding this unfortunate trend were the incidents of last week. 
I am not going to talk at length about this and I appreciate what you say,  Mr Chairman,  but perhaps I may finish the sentence. Last week was an occasion when there was a tendency to suppress- 
The Minister in a statement on health benefits on 4th March, under the heading 'Dissemination of Information concerning Medical Fees and Benefits', said: 
In the immediate future, a booklet describing the new arrangements, together with a list of the common fees for the more frequently rendered medical services, will be widely distributed. 
If this is all that is proposed it is very apparent that we are not likely to have any objection to it. I cannot at this point of time anticipate what opposition the Government could have to the amendment that has been proposed. If the Minister's intention is only as he has stated there could be no reason why he would be not prepared to support the amendment. If on the other hand there is some sinister intent, if it is the intention of the Government to utilise the provision which operates in a very general form now, it is clear that the Government would want to oppose us on this matter. We are calling for an embargo on influencing public opinion on a matter as to which the publicly declared policies of the parties differ. 
There has been a great deal of speculation about the material which will be circulated by the Government. We have read in the Press that millions of copies are being printed somewhere in some secret printery. It is top secret. Nobody knows - even members of the Government are unaware - of the terms of this material. We are told ths/ the printers have been standing by ready to churn out this material. When we put this with the guillotining that is going on and the suggestions that are being made around the lobbies that this printed material of the Government in connection with the National Health Bill might be brought out in such a way as to be used to the Government's advantage at election time, there is good reason why the amendment that we have proposed should bo enthusiastically supported and carried. 
We would hate to think that the Government is to use this technique to disseminate and propagate information in regard to basic philosophical matters concerning national health. After all, there are very great differences of opinion about these matters. A short time ago as I left the Library I glanced at a publication giving the result of a public opinion poll as to whether it would bc better to have voluntary insurance or a health scheme based on taxation. There was a strong difference of opinion in the community on that matter. The results showed that those polled were substantially in favour of the proposals advanced by the Labor Party during the last election. 
It would be very undesirable if matter of that kind were to be the subject of printed material circulated at government expense. Similarly, I do not think the Government should use printed material to justify the exclusion of certain provisions from this legislation. The Country Party would not want to exclude reference to the regionalised hospital services of this country and the need to overhaul them. I would not want the Government to seek to justify its exclusion under the National Health Act of such services as dental and optical services. Whenever wc have had a referendum in this country the procedure has been that the Government has not been at an advantage in putting its view to the voters at public expense. The long established precedent is that every political party is entitled to put its view at public expense at the time of referendums. But here the Government has embarked on the process of putting its view exclusively at public expense. If the Government does not accept the amendment the only conclusion to be drawn is that it intends to use this provision in the legislation for miserable partisan political advantage. In my view it is bad enough to have a  Dr Forbes  running the national health scheme of this country without also having  a  Dr Goebbels.  Our amendment, which gives all political parties, including the Country Party, equal opportunities to advance their points of view, should be warmly embraced bv every honourable member who likes to think that he is a democrat. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
One of the reasons 1 have risen here is to give some of my colleagues a breathing space. They have been taken by surprise by this decision that they are unable to canvas the proposed amendments in a way that is traditional in Committee. In the short time available to me I would like to ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  whether he could explain to the Committee the reason why he has departed from his own proposals in the Bill so far as the composition of this Committee is concerned. 
I do not think the Minister has given any explanation as to why- 
I do not think the Minister has given any explanation as to why he has jettisoned his previous prejudices and commitments. I think it is important, in view of the fact that the Opposition has not had the opportunity to outline clearly the amendments they propose to put and discuss, for the Minister to say what he has rejected, if in fact he has rejected, the proposal that the State Ministers for Health participate in these committees. I take it the Minister's silence means acquiescence and that the State Ministers are not to be included in these committees. I hold the view that for the Commonwealth to act in isolation in this matter is the very height of folly. The States could easily go off on a tangent in the classification of people in the medical profession with respect to specialities and general practice. This could cause all kinds of problems in the State legislatures. 
I think the Minister would bc aware that the Opposition proposed to develop this point and in the confusion that has followed the guillotining and the manner of handling this legislature it has not been amplified in the way that might have been expected. I had not intended to speak on this point but 1 was impressed by the idea that State Ministers should be included. It is apparent to me that the whole thing is a complete shemozzle. It is very difficult for this Parliament to deal with this legislation when it is being amended by the Minister himself at this late hour. When honourable members have gone to work formulating amendments, for the Minister to come into the debate in this way makes a complete shemozzle of any approach to major legislation. We are entitled to some sort of comment on the amendments we have proposed, especially the one that deals with the involvement of State Ministers. I believe it is worthy of some explanation by the Minister for Health. 

 - Mr Chairman, I move: 
That the following new clause be instered in the Bill: " 19a. Section 32 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end of sub-section (1.) the words and the conditions of the agreement shall be reviewed at least once every two years.'.". 
Section 32 of the principal Act, with which the Committee is dealing now, as 1 understand it is headed 'Pensioner Medical Service'. lt makes reference to the fact that the Minister for Health on behalf of the Commonwealth may enter into an agreement with the Australian Medical Association for and in respect of the provision by medical practitioners of medical services for pensioners and their dependants. In relation to this general provision I have moved an amendment the effect of which is that this agreement be reviewed at least every 2 years. 
The Opposition feels that it is an open ended arrangement to leave this provision as it is at the present time. If the Bill is perused one will start to identify the importance of this matter. Among other things, the agreement defines the scope of medical services to be rendered by medical practitioners. It sets out the terms and conditions of the agreement that the DirectorGeneral may enter into with a medical practitioner for and in respect of his rendering of these services at such fees and allowances as are prescribed. So it is fair to say that this provision covers all the most important matters that pertain to the pensioner medical service. The Opposition would not be content to have the agreement go on ad infinitum without any opportunity presenting itself to bring the matter under review. 
One of the reasons why I refer to this matter is that at the present time the pensioner medical service in our view is totally inadequate in that it provides for services of a general practitioner nature but not those of a specialist nature. We would hope that, well within 2 years, but in certainly no longer than 2 years, we would be taking the opportunity to extend specialist services to pensioners. In fact, one gains the impression - the Minister may care to correct me if I am wrong - that pensioners are being relatively disadvantaged under this legislation. Specialist services are readily available under the new arrangement. But the pensioner medical service remains limited to services of a general practitioner nature and is not to be updated or upgraded in any way at all. 
Five weeks ago the Minister for Health in a letter to the Australian Medical Association dealt with this matter. He was referring to the updating of common fees. This is a relevant matter. In his letter to the Australian Medical Association the Minister said: 
The Government acknowledges that an equitable method of updating most common fees has to be worked out. The AMA has already proposed a method of updating and the Government is currently considering the proposals. I am confident that, in the near future, a form of updating can be agreed which will protect the interest of doctors, patients and the Government. 
Then, indeed, the matter was referred to in a letter from the Secretary-General of the Australian Medical Association dated 1st May 1970. The profession, through the AMA, has made it quite clear that it regards this matter importantly. 
From my own standpoint, I can say that every doctor to whom I have talked about this scheme feels that it is imperative that we make an agreement to review periodically the arrangement under which they participate in the scheme. These doctors are well aware of the fact that an enormous deterioration has occurred since the scheme was introduced. In the letter of 1st May to which I have referred we read: 
The AMA has asked for an assurance f-o-i the Government that an agreed mechanism t'.ir updating medical benefits in relation to justifiable periodic variations in medical fees will be introduced. 
It has also asked that anomalies in the new schedule of benefits should be dealt with expeditiously by a reconstituted Anomalies Committee, which will start work as soon as possible. 
I will not quote all of the remaining paragraphs of the letter, but it concludes: 
Without an updating mechanism and rapid correction of faults in the benefit schedule, contributor satisfaction will not be achieved. 
I am quite prepared to speak for the needs of the medical profession in this "Utter. I certainly speak for the require ments of contributors. 1 agree with the views of the Australian Medical Association: Contributor satisfaction will not be achieved until there is written into this Bill specific provision for periodic reviews. After all, the rate at which inflation is taking place in this country probably is unprecedented. We know what happened when the national health scheme of this Government was first introduced after the decent legislation that operated under the Chifley Government was disposed of by this Government.  Sir Earle  Page proposed that contributors would receive by way of refund up to 90% of the cost of all health services. The net effect of all that has happened in the interim is that the patient today must find, on the average, I think approximately onethird of the amount that he expends in respect of medical services. 
As the provision stands at present it is highly unsatisfactory. It is completely open ended. It will not be to the satisfaction of the contributor or of the medical profession unless a specific provision is written into this legislation which will guarantee that the Government periodically will look at the terms and conditions under which the medical practitioner works. I commend this amendment to the Committee. I regard this matter as one of the most important facets of this legislation. I am satisfied that those members opposite who have had any contact with the profession, either on an individual or group basis, will substantiate my claim that doctors feel that they are going to become the captive of a fairly neglectful government, as history has it - a government that has not given satisfaction to either contributors on the one hand or to doctors on the other. Doctors are reluctant and pessimistic about coming into this scheme unless the Government is prepared to show its good faith by writing into the scheme a specific proposal that the conditions under which doctors are going to work are to be reviewed from time to time. For that reason I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill- "23a. Section 69 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the word 'may* and inserting in its stead the word 'shall'; and 
by omitting from sub-section (2.) the word I 'may' and inserting in its stead the word shall'.". 
Section 69 (1.) of the Act states: 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the manner and form in which applications for registration are to be lodged and the documents and information which are to be furnished in support of, or in connection with, applications. 
The operative word is 'may'. Sub-section (2.) reads: 
The Director-General may refuse to entertain an application for registration unless the applicant organisation furnishes, in accordance with the regulations, particulars relating to the affairs, finances, rules and conduct of the organisation. 
Again the operative word is 'may'. The purpose of the amendment is to substitute in sub-clauses (1.) and (2.) the word 'shall' for the word 'may' in each case. The Opposition feels that this matter should not be optional, lt should be obligatory on the funds to meet these requirements and for the Government to impose them. All honourable members will be aware that the Nimmo Committee was loud in its condemnation of the loose manner in which the funds have been allowed to operate. An enormous disparity exists between the reserves of one fund and those of other funds. There is good reason to comment on the management expenses of some funds. In the case of medical benefits funds, they have gone as high as 28% of contributions. A similar situation exists in the case of the hospital benefits funds. In his second reading speech the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  indicated that there will be some tightening of supervision of hospital funds. We agree that there should be. In fact, we are obsessed with the idea that the Government has been enormously lax in not exercising the disciplinary powers with which it has been equipped under the Act. I cannot recall any occasion when action has been taken against a fund and there has certainly never been public disclosure of the very many misdemeanours in which the Nimmo Committee reports that they have engaged. 
In a statement to the House on 4th March last the Minister said: 
While it should be stressed that many funds operate at very low and entirely acceptable expense rates, the Government accepts the Committee's finding that there have been some practices of a wasteful character, particularly those arising out of the undesirable competitive activities between some major 'open' funds - that is, those in which membership is open to the general public. 
The Minister continued: 
As proposed by the Nimmo Committee in recommendation 3), registered funds will bs required to restrict their management expenses to specified limits. 
The only way to ensure that the Minister means what he says is to have his statement written into the Act. For the life of us we cannot see why the Government has chosen to leave section 69 optional. After all, in this matter the Government is the custodian of an enormous amount of public money contributed under compulsion, in effect, since members of the public cannot receive the Commonwealth benefit unless they contribute to a fund. If members of the public do not belong to a fund they cannot receive the benefits of the contributions paid by way of taxes to the Commonwealth's health scheme. It is incredible that compliance with section 69 should be optional and not obligatory. Again in his statement to the House the Minister said: 
The Government supports the Nimmo Committee's view that the adoption of standard forms of accounting by health insurance funds is desirable in order that the activities of the funds may be better compared and so that areas where economics are possible may be identified. 
Many other extracts could be taken from the Minister's speech and from the Nimmo Committee's report to demonstrate the unsatisfactory situation that has prevailed to date with the large number of funds in existence. There is plenty of room for criticism of the funds, of the wasteful expenditure of public money by the funds, of the size of reserves and of the manner in which funds have been invested. For all these reasons it seems to me that the Government should be most pedantic with regard to regulations covering the administration of the funds. The condemnatory remarks of the Nimmo Committee take up several pages. In paragraph 3.3 of its report the Committee states: 
For example some health insurance organisations by excessive self-promotion have paid insufficient attention to the object of the 'non-profit' feature of the scheme. . . . 
So for the reasons I have given and for others which I choose not to go into because it is late in the day, I strongly urge the Minister to accept our amendment and thereby give peace of mind to the Opposition and, I believe, also to Government supporters - certainly to contributors to the hospital and medical insurance organisations. If the Committee agrees to the amend- ment we will ensure that the Government accepts its responsibilities with regard to regulations which will be in the best interests of the community at large. 
 I join with my colleagues, in registering an emphatic protest about the guillotining of this legislation. After all the Bill covers 177 pages and is accompanied by a memorandum of 119 pages. This Committee is expected to deal with all this in less than 6 hours 20 minutes. At one stage of this debate, under the guillotine arrangements 13 clauses are to be dealt with in less than 1 hour. Honourable members have just observed the serious matters involved. My colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  outlined a matter which requires the diligent attention of the Committee. 
We are fortunate in having with us the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  an eminent doctor, who is obsessed with public interest and who is intent on having inserted in the legislation provisions which will safeguard the interests of contributors. What is it that the honourable member for Kingston has proposed and which apparently the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  is going to reject? It seems that it does not matter what virtue there is in amendments moved by honourable members from the Opposition side of the House. The Minister, like the Sphinx, is unmoved. He is not prepared to be accommodating in any way whatsoever even though the Opposition has taken the trouble to talk to representatives of the hospital and medical funds and to the medical profession. As a sequel to those long and protracted negotiations and hard application to the problem, the Opposition has presented carefully considered amendments. Apparently not one of them is to receive consideration. 
I ask the Committee and those people who may be listening to this debate to look carefully at the amendment which this Government is now rejecting. The honourable member for Kingston has proposed that when the Director-General brings down his annual report about the operations of hospital and medical benefit funds he should include in it information about the names of al] shareholders in funds, the equity held by each of them in the funds and the names of the directors. Why is it that the Minister for Health and the Government which he represents want to withhold that information? We want to know the details of investments made by the funds. Where does their money go to? After all. the money belongs to the contributors. 
The honourable member for Kingston also proposed that the Director-General require from the funds information which can be made available to the Parliament about the details of direct or indirect shareholding interests in other organisations which are held by directors, and also of organisations in which the funds' reserves have been invested. If the directors have shareholdings in organisations and the funds invest in them also then we want to know the details of those transactions. Why is it that the Minister wants to withhold this kind of information? 
I refer the Committee to the warnings given by the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance, the expert committee appointed by the Government and headed by  Mr Justice  Nimmo, which analysed the investments of a representative group of organisations. At page 51 of the Nimmo Committee's report it is stated that these organisations had reserves of $52m. That is the kind of money we are dealing with. The Nimmo Committee analysed the manner in which that money was dispersed by way of investment. Of that sum 3.6% or $1.9m was invested in shares. Do not the public and the contributors have a right to know what companies are receiving the benefit of these investments? The Nimmo Committee reported that 10.9% or S5.8m was invested in debentures: 8.2% or S4.3m was invested in mortgages: and 1.4% or $740,000 was invested in miscellaneous investments. The average yield from all this was only 5%. Anybody would concede that that is a relatively low return today. Obviously they were not investing in Poseidon or any of the rip roaring stocks that have recently engaged attention in the lucrative market. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What are the names and representative capacities of guests who were accommodated in the Inaugural and Second Indian-Pacific Passenger Train. 
Which of the guests represented (a) the Federal Government, (b) the Federal Opposition, (c) State Governments, (d) State Oppositions and (e) the trade union movement. 
What was the cost of these two journeys. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth established criteria to ascertain the capital cost of schools per enrolled student in Commonwealth Territories and the various States; if so what are the criteria . 
What is the capital cost per enrolled student in (a) primary schools established in Commonwealth Territories, (b) secondary schools in Commonwealth Territories, (c) primary schools established in various States and (d) secondary schools established in the various States. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, with the exception of Queensland, the only professional qualification available in Australia to the speech therapy profession is a diploma rather than a university degree. 
Is the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education currently proposing to incorporate training in speech therapy into colleges of advanced education. 
Do these circumstances seriously disadvantage Australian speech therapists by excluding them from overseas higher study opportunities which invariably require a first degree at a university. 
Has the present situation resulted in (a) Australian trained speech therapists being excluded from higher appointments in Australia which go to members of the profession from overseas holding university degrees, (b) general retardation of the profession in Australia including a lack of research due to a deficiency of persons with a basic degree conducting research studies for higher degrees, (c) inability to accommodate students from Asian countries seeking speech therapy qualifications with universal acceptability and (d) insufficient trained personnel to properly treat polyglot immigrants, bilingual children, multi-lingual children, persons with a brain injury, speech, voice and hearing defects of Aborigines, and other more orthodox forms of speech therapy. 
asked the Minister  for 
Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a circular letter addressed by  Sir Eric  Scott. O.B.E., Federal  President  of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, to Federal Members stating that the Minister had consistently declined the Guild's invitation to negotiate chemists' remuneration for dispensing national health prescriptions. 
Has he declined such an invitation; if so, on what grounds. 
Has the Government (a) taken no action since 1961 to adjust chemists' dispensing fees, (b) advised the Pharmacy Guild of Australia by letter dated 6 August 1969 of its decision not to increase the remuneration to retail chemists and (c) abrogated its 1961 agreement with the Guild. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Are the independence and autonomy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission impaired by the fact that all staff appointments are controlled by the Public Service Board, over which he exercises ministerial authority? Further, are the Commission's current affairs programmes affected through an insidious form of political direction through the determinations of the Overseas Visits Committee, over which he again exercises ministerial authority? 
The care of handicapped children, long neglected in this country, will to some extent be remedied by this Bill. The world's aspiration to do something for handicapped children is best expressed by the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of a 
Child 1959. An extract from the Declaration reads: 
The child who is physically, mentally or socially handicapped shall be given the special treatment, education and care required by his particular condition. 
I think it has been conceded by every honourable member who has participated in this debate that we in this country fall a long way short of that criterion. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  made that point,  lt  is significant that every honourable member who has spoken in the debate would concede that the dedicated public servants who work under the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  are concerned about the inadequacies in this field of endeavour. It is known that they have been applying themselves to this aspect for a long time. 
Earlier in the debate the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  indicated that he was in support of our amendment but was not prepared to vote for it. He believed that more information was necessary about this subject - that surveys were needed. We all know that the officers of the Department of Social Services, dedicated as they are, have been engaging in research for some considerable time. It would be of interest to the House to know the nature of those surveys. What is the product of the surveys that have been made? I am not prepared to accept that the Minister knows as little about them as he pretends. On 19th May last, in answer to a question on notice from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the Minister said that he did not know even the number of people involved in this area. He said in effect that he had no idea of the number of children who could come under the heading of handicapped. 
It is important for the Parliament, when considering a Bill of this nature, to know the extent to which the Department has applied itself to this work, perhaps at the request of the Minister. It is important to know the extent to which the Department's proposals and recommendations have been accepted or rejected. If the Minister is operating in the dark we can excuse him. We will accept his apology if he cares to make it, but if facts are available to him indicating that the Commonwealth has an obligation or a responsibility to assist the States which, after all. in this and so many other areas today are mere spending agencies for the Commonwealth, a great deal of explanation is needed. Like most honourable members, 1 am involved in my local area with departmental officers and 1 know that a lot of work is being done, but I do not think the Minister is being frank with us. I think he knows a lot more about the deficiencies in this area than he has been prepared to concede. If he has an opportunity to reply at some stage in the debate I would ask him to indicate whether his Department is investigating the grey areas about which on 19th May last he told the honourable member for Oxley he knows so little. Are his officers trying to elucidate the facts and fill in the blanks or does he require them to be oblivious to what is happening? If he feels that he can operate effectively and efficiently as a Minister with th~ information at his disposal, what is the extent of that information and to what extent has a consideration of that information been denied in the preparation of this Bill? 1 have mentioned the world's aspirations wilh regard to handicapped children. I have said, as have other honourable members, that Australia has fallen short of those standards. I suppose Australia, being an affluent country, has a greater responsibility in this area than have countries with lower levels of income or countries which suffer misfortunes of the kind we have read about in South America today. Our degree of affluence, places a bigger responsibility on us.. In many areas of social service Australia once led ' the world, but our record has slipped. It is difficult to  get  authoritative statistics on this subject, but I would not be surprised if Australia held a relatively lowly position, compared with other countries, in the care of mentally and physically handicapped children. 
I think there probably is a political connotation; but I do not think we need enter the political arena as far as this Bil! is concerned because it deals with benevolence. It deals with underprivileged people - underprivileged in the sense that they have been afflicted by a handicap. We have a long way to go to measure up to the standard set not only by the world but by the Public Instruction Act of New South Wales, which makes the State responsible for the provision of education services for all children on a free and compulsory basis. 
What is the incidence of afflicted people, in the community? 1 was interested to read a paper delivered by Professor J. A. Richardson in a forum known as the 'New Frontier and headed The Provision of an Adequate Education, for the Handicapped Child'. Professor Richardson is Professor of Education at Flinders University. Among other things he set out to establish the extent of the problem. He said: 
As you know, handicapped children form  t  by-no-nu-ans .small minority of the school-age population. Conservative estimates of incidence, pui lbc proportion - between 4% and 6% - that is of children who deviate sio markedly from normal growth and development in some significant respect - intellectually, physically, socially or emotionally - thai the regular school programmeis inadequate for their needs; who require therefore special educational provisions - a special school or class or supplementary instruction and services within the regular class. 
Professor Richardson went on to refer to the extent to which some countries have identified this problem and' have accommodated the people concerned. He said: 
In the  Netherlands  about 5% of the 7 to 15 agc group are accommodated in special schools/ most of I hem built since 1945, with facilities and' equipment which would make the majority of teachers in our special education services very" envious. Denmark equals the Netherlands  . . ' Een .Communist Czechoslovakia was. planning in 1965 to double the facilities it then had for 2% of  the  si bool age population. 
That would bring Czechoslovakia's involvement up to  4%  of the school population. The Professor continued: 
And the position in Australia? I can speak wilh any certainly only of New South Wales. In 1966. I estimated on the basis of the mast recently published figures that special classes and schools provided for considerably less than  1%  of the school age population between  7  and  15. 
So we can start to see, in terms of themeasurement of the eminent Professor Richardson of Hinders University, that Australia is well behind in this particular' matter - on the one hand 4% to 6% in the countries to which I have referred and in Australia down to 1%. Professor Richardson went on to say: 
Special educational provision in New South Wales is woefully inadequate. 1 suspect the same is true of our own State. 
Of course the State to which he was referring there was Victoria. One would probably not be rash in contending that in other States the position would not be much better. So in Australia we are catering for a much smaller percentage though the likelihood is that we would have the same incidence of casualties, if we can so term it. Surely this must underline for the Minister, and for every honourable member in this House, the apparent need to find out the facts of this situation. Tonight we have heard from honourable members in their enthusiasm and their devotion to these problems their willingness to eulogise the organisations which r.re devoting themselves to these efforts. Vet we are aware that in many areas, because of the lack of spontaneity, there are children who have never been accommodated effectively either by State or by spontaneous benevolently inspired facilities. So those children languish. Obviously this kind of ad hoc approach is inadequate and insufficient. It certainly is for the. families and people concerned. 
In many parts of Australia children scoring less than a 30 IQ are not eligible to participate in our free and compulsory education system. Instead they are relegated to the generous and benevolent efforts of charitable organisations. The parents, through necessity, have to seek placement of their children in independent charity schools if they happen to have them in their area. If they do not have them, they have to form them, to start a school from scratch and then spend much of their lives raising funds for buildings, equipment, staff wages and running costs. I suppose all of us have associated with people of this kind. They become completely subjugated to the obligations they have. I know of one establishment where, if the parents of children do not turn up to a. sufficient number of meetings in a year, they are threatened with their children's expulsion from that school. Such is the tenuous financial situation which prevails, and the fact is that parents have to work at the lucky numbers and all sorts of illegal contrivances to get the funds to sustain the establishments. If they have the misfortune to have a handicapped child by birth or as a result of some subsequent development their lives have to be devoted to the raising of funds. Any measure, therefore, to alleviate these burdens will be welcomed by the families concerned. 
My own emphasis - I think it is the emphasis of members on this side of the House, and I am pleased to acknowledge that it also is the emphasis of several speakers from the other side - is to transfer these personal obligations to the public at large through the exchequer of the Commonwealth, through public resources. There is only one fair and equitable way to finance matters of this kind. It is the same way that we finance the education of healthy, wholesome, robust Australian children, and that is by way of uniform taxation so that everybody contributes according to his capacity to pay. Why, therefore, do we deviate from this established . principle - the principle that finances social services, age and widows pensions, hospitals, defence and even the conduct of the police force? When it comes to the care of physically and mentally handicapped children how can we justify departing from that fundamental principle? 
I have sat here tonight and listened to the debate on this Bill. It has been a debate similar in many respects to the debate on the Bill related to sheltered workshops and to many other Bills. The Minister and the Government hide behind their eulogies of and their dependence upon the charitable area - their utilisation of the service clubs and people of good intent, good faith and good achievements. They depend on Rotary, Apex and the Lions Clubs and many other groups which are filling a vacuum because the Government has not faced up to its responsibility and is unfortunately relegating its obligations to charity. For my part, rather than this ad hoc fragmentary approach to this great problem I would rather see the preparation and tabling of a blueprint designed to illustrate and timetable the phasing out of dependence on charity. I am not prepared to stand here and say that the Minister has failed totally in his obligations and that he should bring down a Bill now to cover, in a blanket sort of way, all the deficiencies we have experienced over the years, but he should, out of his sense of responsibility, require his Department to work forthrightly and objectively towards identification of the problem and he should be prepared to say that over a period of years we are going to relieve these unfortunate families of this depressing and pressing obligation to which they have been subjected. 
If there were to be such a blueprint it should provide for a number of things. First, it should provide for the establishment of a handicapped children's education and health authority which has the responsibility landed on its table. In my view it should be a Commonwealth authority and it certainly should liaise effectively with the States, lt is not impossible to expect this kind of liaison.- lt exists in other federal systems. In the United States of America they contrive such arrangements and they integrate with the State organisations. Their intervention and involvement are enthusiastically received,  as would be the case in Australia. If we said to the States: 'We are going to help to alleviate the burdens with which you have -been confronted for a long time and which you have not been able to resolve satisfactorily',  Sir Henry  Bolte,  Mr Dunstan, Mr Askin  or any other State Premier would willingly accept Commonwealth involvement. 1 believe such an authority is necessary in the first instance. Then the authority should programme progressive acceptance of the total financial burden by the Commonwealth. Thirdly, it should plan provision of centres on a regional basis in each State. Instead we expect, in a miraculous sort of way, the spontaneity of charitable organisations to meet the needs of regions, and this is absurd. In fact, our expectation has been the subject of disappointment. lt has not been realised. In many regions where there is an incidence of mentally and physically handicapped children there are no such, centres and children have 10 travel long distances in attending places where there are residential facilities. lt is not enough to leave it to this ad hoc sort of expectation. We should plan it in a sensible way. Then, of course, such a blueprint should undertake the training of a specialised professional teaching force and other personnel. Indeed, it should facilitate the payment of adequate salaries to people engaged in this very useful profession. I am afraid that my pleasure with this Bill, though considerable, is tarnished by some of its glaring inadequacies, some of which I have referred to already. But there are other inadequacies. The Bill excludes buildings provided before 27th October 1969. Why should it exclude them? I know of people engaged in this field who have got together and acquired buildings before 27th October 1969, and these buildings are subjected to heavy mortgages. The people have been working hard to reduce those mortgages. Why should they not receive assistance under this legislation? 
The running costs are not reduced by the provisions of this Bill, but they are the great shackle around the organisations and prevent them from attracting subsidies. The Bill does nothing to meet the cost of staff wages or the capital, the running and the maintenance costs of vehicles. I think most honourable members are aware that where vehicles are used  they are deployed into areas covering many miles and this is done at great expense. As far as 1 can ascertain these Considerations are not covered by this legislation. Then the voluntary groups arc left with the enormous and crushing burden of raising the capital to attract a subsidy while the running costs are draining the day to day income away. How can they attract a subsidy with such crushing burdens? In addition, the Bill excludes people over 21 years of age if they were not receiving treatment before attaining the age of 21. They are some of the anomalies. There arc others which I may have a chance to refer to later on. 
I want to pay tribute to the voluntary groups which, in the face of Government indifference, have worked tirelessly to fill the vacuum by the provision of handicapped children's centres. .In my own electorate there is such a centre at Kirrawee called the Handicapped Children's Centre of New South Wales. I have had the privilege of enjoying a close association wilh- this centre since ils inception 23 years' ago. I helped to found it and have been a member of the board of management. This centre prides itself on being the first centre in New South Wales to cater for both intellectual1))' and physically handicapped children. Recently a new centre was built at North Sutherland. It is to be opened by the Governor on 20th June and was built at a cost of SI 40.000. Some S56.000 of the $140,000 was provided by the centre and this has absorbed the reserves accumulated by that organisation over the last  23  years. Over  100  children attend this day centre. It is like many others in Australia. Another  26  children have been accommodated at a country residential centre at Kurrajong which is now to be replaced. 
The cost 'of maintaining this centre at Sutherland and the day centre is  $100,000  in round figures every year. I want the Minister to grasp the several1 figures I am about to give. This is how the money has been derived: Government subsidies provided  $25,000.  and school and boarding fees  $40,000.  the. rest..  $35,000,  has had to be found through donations and public subscriptions. I have sat around a table many nights trying to plan how we can get this  $35,000  per annum, which is roughly about  $700  per week. How many honourable members have had this experience of sitting clown with a group of  6  or  8  people and planning how they are going to find  $700  a week to care for the region's physically and mentally handicapped children? We need 'lucky numbers',  '200  clubs', beauty parades and everything that is illegal. That is what they have to do. They have to find  $35,000  every year to keep this centre going in the St George-Sutherland region. It can be seen that that kind of burden is going to prevent the centre from gathering the . capital necessary to attract subsidies. It has aspired to greater things in the new building. It has had to curtail a number of things it needs, lt wanted a workshop; it cannot be there, lt wanted a domestic science block: it cannot be there. lt wanted a new residential centre at Sutherland. The estimated cost of this was  $200,000  and the Centre would have to. find a third of it, which is  $66,000  in the rough. How can it possibly raise that kind of money? 
Let me mention some of the burdens this organisation has because it is synonymous with all the others to which honourable members have referred. Five out of  13  teachers at th:s centre attract Government salary subsidies. The salary subsidies are only  $2,000  a year. That does not represent the salary that is payable, so there is a great deficiency. Why do only .  5  out of  13  attract subsidies? Because the State authorities have special requirements. The subsidy is based on a group of  10  children, but the children who are being serviced by the staff have special requirements. There is the need for toilet attention and things of this kind.  1  was there a short time ago and one group of  8  children had to have  2  teachers to care for them. One wonders why the State is so inflexible about this. I know in some of the very worthy institutions that look after the blind and deaf children the pupil-teacher ratio is  2  to  6.  Yet there is this requirement which seems to be unnecessarily stringent in the case of the handicapped children's centres. 
There is no subsidy for the school principal and the  3  assistants, no subsidy for the administrator and office staff. An office staff is needed to raise the  $35,000  a year, to get among the service clubs and so on. There is no subsidy for the  5  salaried bus drivers. Th:s centre has  8  specially equipped buses and  5  bus mothers. They are not subsidised in any way at all. There is no subsidy for the teachers and the supervisors responsible for children over 1  6  years of age. And there will not bc any under the provisions of this Bill. The same organisation has a country residential centre. There is no subsidy there for the matron from the State authority and there is none proposed under this Bill. There is no subsidy for the  5  assistant nurses, the  4  domestic staff or the  2  trained teachers. The cost of maintaining a handicapped ch id at the residential centre in the mountains in the electorate represented by my colleague, the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  is  $7  a week over the invalid pension. Here again there is no assistance from any Government resource, either Commonwealth or State. 
I did not. intend to speak for so long on this matter, lt is a matter which is common probably to every electorate but I feel we have a superficial approach to the whole problem. I suppose most of us would like the opportunity to have a crack at this in a ministerial capacity, to utilise and deploy our staff and to say: 'This is a problem about which there is no political quibble in the whole of Austrafia. Here is a matter about which we can make common cause. I am the Minister for Social Services. I have my staff and I am first of all going to say on behalf of the Parliament of this nation, because 1 know every honourable member in the Parliament would uphold me, go out and find the facts in the situation'. The honourable member for Boothby talked about what John Kennedy, the late  President  of the United States .of America, did when in 1961. he conducted such a national survey. I know he had a personal family affinity with this problem. First of all the authorities there analysed this. They were prepared to expose themselves in the sense of saying: 'This much we have done and this much "we have not yet done'. Everyone accepted that the admission of deficiencies was an indication that the problem would be assailed. But tonight we have this ad hoc, fragmentary, superficial approach which characterises so much of the legislation which the good-hearted and goodintending Minister for Social Services has brought down before this Parliament. It is not sufficiently' objective. It is not sufficiently targeted. It will not placate the people pf this country, lt is not good enough for the Minister to eulogise the voluntary organisations and to derive some sort of satisfaction from the&gt; fact that they are going to be pleased. One will always be pleased in a drought if one can get a drink of water but one should resolve the whole drought problem. 
I say to the Minister that we are grateful for what he has done but we are not satisfied that sufficient is done. I could continue and mention a number of matters but I am afraid time will not allow me to do it. I could offer a number of suggestions which would help to alleviate this problem still further. However; one thing is certain and that is that there should be tax relief for these families; there should be special equipment; there should be a more personalised approach. Where are the social workers? 1 happen to be the  President  of a regional Council of Social Services which is said to be one of the most advanced in Australia. In our region we have but one social worker to look after 150,000 people, including the physically and mentally handicapped people and their families. So in every sense we have to get down from this superficial approach into a more personalised area. We have to get domicilliary attention and aid with medical requirements. I say to the Minister: 'Well done; we congratulate you on breaking through'. The Government has been indifferent for a long time but it should not now get the feeling that the people of this country or the Parliament at large will be happy or will consider that what it has done is sufficient to resolve a problem that for a long time has reflected on the entire nation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it intended to give early but belated effect to the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs and the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, known as the Nimmo Committee, regarding the reduction of the massive reserves held by hospital and medical benefit funds? Will the Minister give an assurance that, if the reserves are to be reduced, the funds involved will be utilised for the expansion of benefits or the improvement of services? 
It is pleasing to see the relatively impartial manner in which the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  is approaching this legislation and the proposal made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that a joint committee of senators and members of the House of Representatives should be appointed to investigate and report on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. The honourable member for Mitchell has had a long and enduring interest in the welfare of ex-servicemen. He has referred tonight to  Colonel Stokes,  the former honourable member for Maribyrnong, who it is readily conceded also took an interest in these matters.  Colonel Stokes,  like the honourable member for Mitchell himself, frequently has drawn attention to the anomalies in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. I think it is fair to say that every honourable member who has spoken tonight has also taken the opportunity to do precisely that. 
Great concern has been expressed about the inadequacy of the responsible department to deal with the very complicated ramifications of this pension scheme. Concepts are changing and we realise that it is time the whole thing received a complete overhaul rather than yet another patch-up. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr 
Bryant) referred to the number of patchups that have been made. The Bill confers benefits on the more senior members - the officer members - of the defence forces who contribute to the Fund under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. Regrettably, the Government has failed to take advantage of this opportunity to update all benefits. After all, in the face of the inflationary state of the economy it is just as much the expectation and the right of the serving members of the forces, including the junior members of the forces, to receive increased benefits as it is of such people as airline pilots, university academics and others. 
The effect of this Bill is to provide increases in benefits to senior personnel. The benefits will increase from 50% of the salary of serving members to 60% of the salary. In other words, it is not a very significant benefit. A development of this kind is comparable to changes effected in the Commonwealth Superannuation Act which became operative on 4th January 1969. Likewise, the benefits of the Bill will have retrospectivity to the same date. We wonder why the Government has been so intent over the period I have mentioned on providing a comparable relationship between the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. They were running parallel in most of their provisions in the period from 1963 to 1969. Much of this legislation is designed to bring the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund back to parity with the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. When all is said and done, as pointed out by the honourable member for Wills, we are catering for entirely different types of people so far as careers are concerned. Servicemen and servicewomen often are required to retire when they have many years of working life ahead of them, many years in which they could go off to serve in some other capacity. How often do we see serving members forced out of the Army, maybe at the rank of captain or major, because they have not reached a certain rank by a certain age? The Army is getting younger. It is necessary for people to be fit in certain circumstances. It is necessary for them to be academically accomplished in other circumstances in order to occupy a senior rank in the Service. They are forced out if the required rank is not attained. 
This does not happen in the Public Service. Conversely, the situation is that people stay on until their retirement. One sees it often in departments like the Postmaster-General's Department. The Director-General attains the DirectorGeneralship for the 6 months or so left of his retirement age. He continues right up to retirement age. It is not an unreasonable thing to have comparable benefits for retirement in situations of this kind. We see the retirees of the Services - lieutenantcommanders, colonels or squadron leaders - in the suburbs taking up such occupations as real estate agents, public relations officers or fund raisers. This is further evidence of the fact that so many of them are forced to retire. But how often does one see a public servant forced to retire because he has failed to achieve a certain classification by a certain age? I understand, and I am indebted to my colleague, the honourable member for Wills, for this information, that 1 in 300 public servants reaches the Second Division, which is a high classification and a generously remunerated classification. One in 300 is the ratio in the Public Service. In the defence Services - the Navy, the Army, and the Air Force - only 1 in 1 100 reaches a comparable classification measured in terms of salary, which is up to a senior officer's classification. Surely this indicates that there is a need for differential treatment. Regrettably, the Government has as yet failed to see the need for discriminatory benefits. This glaringly anomalous position has been referred to by honourable members on both sides of the House year in, year out. lt is referred to constantly by members of the Services and their representatives. The fact that it has not been heeded is probably sufficient justification to support the amendment proposed by my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
The significance of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme is demonstrated by the fact that the number of contributors is in excess of 84,000. It includes all male and female personnel who serve on a full time and continuous basis for over 1 year. At 30th June 1969 there were 8,122 persons receiving a pension from the Fund. This number is increasing at the rate of approximately 1,000 a year. I mention these figures to show that we are dealing with a very significant number of people both in regard to the coverage of the scheme and the number of beneficiaries. For the last financial year, 1968-69, the benefits amounted to $10. 5m. As I have mentioned, that amount has been extended to 8,122 persons. It is interesting to note that, regardless of the number of benefits paid, the balance of the Fund at 30th June 1969 reached the figure of $1 10m. It is certainly not a fund which is heading for insolvency. This is the first time that the balance of the Fund had been in excess of SI 00m. It is able to render very valuable service through its investments by making funds available to the securities of the Commonwealth, by lending money to local government, by Joans prescribed under trustee legislation, by mortgages on land and by short term money market lending. It earns, for the Fund, an interest rate of just over 5.9%. 
If the Parliament decides to set up the committee proposed by the honourable member for Bass on behalf of the Opposition so that we can go into all the ramifications of this scheme, we will probably have the opportunity to look al some of the provisions that prevail in other parts of the world. In Australia our serving members of the forces, as I understand it, contribute 20% to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the Commonwealth meets the balance. In Britain, the United States of America, Malaysia and West Germany the ex-servicemen, or veterans as they are called in some countries, are covered for retirement benefits and gratuities without any contribution at all. 1 suppose it ought to be necessary and useful for us to take these overseas situations into account. In the United States the .veterans receive retirement benefits equalling, after 20 years, half the current pay being received by a member in the forces and, after 30 years, a much higher proportion Still. The details escape me but after 30 years a proportion considerably in excess of half the pay is received by American veterans without a requirement to contribute at all. Surely this should cause our Government to recognise the prima facie evidence that we are dragging the chain in our treatment of ex-servicemen. 
Perhaps a realistic approach to this matter could have the effect of obviating the need for conscription. Perhaps it could assist to make the forces so attractive that we would never be short of suitable volunteers. The United States automatically adjusts retirement pensions during the period of retirement and updates the pension rate as the salaries of serving members are increased. There is only one other matter to which I want to refer. It is another one of the present anomalies, but it is an anomaly so inhuman in my view and so unprecedented in pension schemes that it justifies some special mention. It concerns section 53a of the principal Act which states: 
If a person to whom a pension, being invalidity benefit, is being paid engages in employment at a remuneration the rate of which is not less than two-thirds of such rate as is determined by the Board to be the rate of pay that corresponds with the rate of pay, as determined in accordance wilh the regulations, that was payable to [he person immediately before his retirement and the pension is not cancelled by force of sub-section (3.) of section 69 of this Act, the Board may suspend the pension and, upon the Board so doing, the pension ceases lo be payable so long as he continues in employment at such a remuneration. . 
That sounds highly complicated and, in fact, it is, but it becomes a very realistic matter when it affects an ex-serviceman. I have a particular case in mind, though I have had several cases of this kind brought to my attention. A young man enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force in November 1 955  when he was aged 22 years. He served for 3i years when he lost his right leg above the knee in a road accident at Amberley base in Queensland. He received no compensation at all for the loss of his leg but he was paid an A class pension under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act at the rate of 13 a fortnight. In 1958 Che pension paid to him dropped to 6 4s 8d a fortnight. In 1963- he thinks it was then because he told me on the phone about an hour ago that he believes it was just before an election - the pension was increased to $28 a fortnight to 2nd May 1969. So he was receiving a pension at the rate of $700 per annum. But under the provisions of section 53a immediately his income reached $2,329 per annum his pension was cut out entirely. He is a young man with 3 children who has decided not to throw in the towel but to continue to make the best of his situation and the best of the circumstances that descended upon him. He went to work under difficult circumstances and he continues to do so, but because his salary has now reached the level of  $2,329  he is deprived of any benefit whatsoever under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. 
He pointed out to me the unfairness of the decision to take away his pension. He has to use a car, essentially for the reason that he is troubled by the loss of his leg and this costs him  $641  per annum. Last year the treatment of his stump cost him  $219.  The artificial leg and appliances cost him  $250  in that year and sundry costs, including special shoes and special treatment of his clothing, amounted to  $78.  So he is spending  $1,200  in order to go to his employment. He has lost his leg, but having made an effort to earn something for himself he has been affected in this way. It is amazing how these people are plagued. The letter to which I am about to refer does not relate to the gentleman I have mentioned; it refers to a gentleman in similar circumstances. He has not had his pension taken away but he is threatened with having it taken away. This letter reads: 
The report of your review medical examination on 7th January J 970 has now been considered and it has been determined that, for the present, you shall remain classified Class B with pension entitlement of $956 per annum. 
However, your attention is invited to section 53a of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act (please see copy attached) in which provision is made for the suspension of pension when the rate of remuneration exceeds two-thirds of the current equivalent of Service pay at retirement; that is, Service pay at retirement as increased by subsequent variations in the Services Pay Code. 
The letter goes on to indicate what will happen to him if he does not disclose changes in his salary and so on. I assume from this letter that all the people who are receiving the invalid pension under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act are similarly plagued and similarly threatened that if they succeed in overcoming the disadvantage to which they are put, their pension will be taken away. Many of these people, as I indicated by the earlier case I mentioned, spend a great deal of money in an endeavour to overcome their disabilities. 1 know that we have a lot of business to get through in the remainder of this session and that other honourable members want to speak, but there are many other anomalies in the Act that I could mention. The one to which I have referred represents, I think, a most inhuman set of circumstances, the like of which could not be found in any comparable legislation enacted under the laws of the Commonwealth or any State in Australia or, I should think, in any other country. Since there are such a large number  - 1,701  to be precise - of persons who, according to the report of the Department for the year ended  1969,  receive invalid pensions under the provision of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act, it is likely that that number of people are being threatened with the loss of their pension if they succeed in earning incomes. I hope that the Minister will have serious regard for what I have said and will take away from these people the worry which has plagued them for such a long time in respect of a pension which ought to be their entitlement considering the disabilities they have suffered in the service of this country. 
 J rise to express my disappointment at the failure of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  to reply to queries about the highly anomalous situation- 
I know the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is anxious to say a few words in regard to these requests from the Senate. I understand that the requests before the Committee at the moment are 1 to 7. 
Firstly i would like to say that i am grateful for the acquiescence of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in making available the copies of the statement about which there was discussion prior to dinner this evening. One of the matters which is before the Committee at the present time concerns the proposal to make available to all persons who are hospitalised the Commonwealth benefit of S2 per day. i know this matter would be to the gratification of honourable members who represent Queensland electorates. I think it is to the credit of those who have been responsible for these amendments that this anomaly which has been outstanding for such a long time has now, probably without the enthusiasm of the Government, been overcome. The fact of the matter is that for a long time in Queensland free hospitalisation has been available and as a result of this provision the Commonwealth has declined to make benefits available. As I understand it, if the request of the Senate is conceded - and I believe it is to be conceded though probably not in the precise form in which the request is made but in a general way - it is intended that all patients who undergo hospitalisation in that State will now receive this benefit. There is some speculation and I believe it is important for the Minister to clarify this point in connection with public hospitals in other States which under the provisions of a means test make free hospitalisation available to certain people. I know that honourable members from New South Wales will be aware of these provisions. 
It is a provision which places very onerous financial obligations on the States concerned and the effect of it is that the States, in recognition of the fact that people who are not members of hospital funds but require hospitalisation and are unable to pay for it just have to be provided with hospitalisation. These people are admitted to hospitals and to public wards provided they measure up to a certain criterion as far as a means test is concerned. The general effect of the means test in New South Wales is to take the income of the person concerned and then, having deducted from it an amount which represents the payments on the person's home and making allowances for each dependant, in circumstances where there is an amount less than the basic wage remaining that person is admitted to a public hospital. It seems to me it is now beyond doubt that the Queensland public hospital system will be included in the provisions to which I have referred; that is to say, S2 per day will be made available to persons hospitalised in Queensland in all circumstances. But what I would be very anxious to know from the Minister is whether this provision is to apply to other States and especially to the hospitals to which I have referred. 
This is an important breakthrough. One wonders what the total cost to the Queensland Government has been through the Commonwealth's failure to be more sympathetic about this matter over the years. It must amount to some millions of dollars. I understand that every person who goes into a public ward in Queensland will now benefit by way of a direct payment, to the hospital rather than to the patient, of $2 per day. Is the same provision to apply to other States where persons are admitted to public hospitals in consideration of their inadequate means? There are other provisions which are before the Committee at the present time. I confess I have not had the opportunity to go through them w:th care but I may possibly be able to speak again later. 
One matter concerns the proposal that benefits should be made available for persons who receive treatment from ophthalmologists, particularly refraction treatment. I am given to understand it is not the intention of the Government to accept this amendment which was moved in this House, was subsequently supported in another place and has come back here by way of a message from another place. The Minister has said that if persons who avail themselves of the services of ophthalmologists are assisted in every way it would be to the disadvantage of optometrists who engage in a sim:lar practice, the practice of providing refraction treatment. It seems to me to be an alarming situation when patients over the country and doctors in many circumstances are contending that refraction treatment should be the subject of benefit by way of the national health scheme, when the Opposition has favoured this proposal as have some Government supporters in this House and when, in addition, a favourable response has come from senators in another place about the matter, that the Minister finally says 'No, we are not going to give effect to this suggestion because we have not yet contrived the means by which we give equal treatment to the 2 professions which engage in the provision of refraction treatment'. 
I think one of the Minister's problems is that there is an inadequacy of legislative provisions in the various States. In fact, if my memory serves me correctly, he has made specific mention of those. In other words, because of the inadequacy of the Government in this matter and because it has failed to apply itself to the need to register people to demonstrate their capacity so that the public at large can be protected, and because there has been a lack of uniformity in training requirements and matters of this kind, the Government is now saying 'We are not prepared to include refraction treatment in the benefits system under the national health scheme'. There is little doubt that many people who go in the first place to general practitioners and who are then referred to ophthalmologists have a genuine and fundamental medical need and are involved in very considerable cost in undergoing this treatment. I believe it is to the discredit of the Government that it is not prepared to accept this proposal which has come from another place and which has the support of many honourable members here simply because it has been unable to contrive the means by which some kind of equitable treatment can be given to 2 sections of the profession. It is well known that the Opposition has for many years in this House supported proposals to give benefits to patients of ophthalmologists and optometrists. I believe it is now necessary for the Government to apply itself to this matter more earnestly than it has in the past in order to provide registration arrangements so that in the not too far distant future the message which has come from the Senate on this occasion can be given effect to and by this means the national health scheme can be made more effective in regard to optometrical and ophthalmological treatment. 

 Mr REYNOLDS (Barton) [8.10J- 1 would like to say a few words about the requests numbered 1 and 7 received from the Senate in respect to services rendered by optometrists and ophthalmologists. First of all, I do not go back at all on anything that I said in the debate on the second reading when 1 accused the Government of being guilty of a clear breach of faith in depriving patients of protection from high fees by a particular group of specialists. The specialists I refer to are the ophthalmologists. I understand that the cost in New South Wales - and it is much the same in other States - of a first and second consultation adds up to about $15. This means that the Government's promise that where a common fee is charged no medical service will cost a patient more than $5 is not going to be adhered to in this sphere. 1 was sorry to hear that the reason given for this breach of faith was because of the relationship with optometrists and the like service which they provide as far as refraction tests are concerned. The optometrist service has been described as an ancillary service and apparently the Government is not at this stage prepared to bring in a comprehensive coverage of such service within the national health scheme. 
In describing the optometrist service as an ancillary service I remind the Minister for Health and the Government that even in this Bill the services of an optometrist are given professional recognition. For the first time the optometrist will receive under this legislation the right of referral. That right carries with it the implication that the Government recognises that optometrists, apart from measuring eyesight, are professionally capable of detecting diseases of the eye. Optometrists have never made the claim that they are capable of treating diseases of the eye. They have always regarded it as their professional responsibility to refer such persons to ophthalmologists or, as some people may call them, eye specialists who. because of their medical training, are capable of carrying out proper treatment. Ophthalmologists have reminded us on several occasions that besides securing a medical degree which incurred 6 years of university training they have also had to undergo 4 years of post-graduate training to fit them for their task. I do not want anything that I say to be construed as a suggestion that patients attending ophthalmologists ought not to be getting the protection of the national health scheme. But I see no reason whatsoever why the Government should use this business of the relationhip of optometrists to ophthalmologists as the reason for depriving many thousands of patients of the benefits promised by this Government during the last election campaign. 
Besides the recognition of the right of referral given in this Bill to optometrists there are other indicators of the professional status of optometrists, and there is no reason why they should not have been included in this scheme. The health schemes in overseas countries do give widespread recognition to the services rendered by optometrists. This is so in the United Kingdom where up to 90% of persons receiving eye care ultimately receive that care from an optometrist. In the United States of America, Canada and in various parts of Europe, optometrists have professional service to render under the health care schemes operating in those countries. A further point I want to make is that in every State of Australia the services of optometrists are recognised in State Acts. In at least 3 States optometrists receive university training. This training is recognised by many universities. In New South Wales there is recognition in the Faculty of Optometry which involves a professional course of 4 years training. In Victoria the training covers a period of 5 years. 
A point which will interest every patient who seeks eye care is that 60% of the Australian public still go to optometrists to receive treatment for eyes. Therefore, by debarring patients who attend either the ophthalmologist or optometrist we are in fact depriving many thousands of people of Commonwealth benefits in respect to a very important service. I think that none of us needs to be reminded just how important eye care is. If any of us here contemplates what it would be like to lose the sense of sight he will have a very strong appreciation of the importance of eye care and eye protection. As I said before, this service is professionally offered by 2 groups of people - the ophthalmologists and the optometrists. I think it is a poor show on the part of the Government to use the difference of professional regard in respect to these 2 groups of people to debar Australians of the benefit of their services. 
The Minister in his speech did say - and I particularly draw his attention to this - that one of the reasons why the Government was not prepared to grant this benefit was that to accept the 2 relevant amendments as requested by the Senate would be to the financial disadvantage of the patients who attend optometrists. This may simply be because the amendments had to be constructed in somewhat of a hurry. In my view the whole circumstances in which this Bill was originally discussed in this chamber was a downright shame. Honourable members will recall that a guillotine was imposed and we had to try to discuss the amendments in a very limited time, so limited in fact that some amendments were not even moved. I think that this is a standing disgrace to the operation of the parliamentary procedures of this House. It had to be left to the Senate to deal in an extensive way with the various amendments which the Australian Labor Party wanted to move. 
Coming back to the pointI was making, I want to suggest to the Minister that he has not taken into account our intention in moving those amendments, and that was that we expected that the patients attending optometrists would attract the benefits in respect of 2 professional services, namely refraction tests and the prescription of spectacles. In that regard I suggest that optometrists charging about $8.50 for the 2 services would not, if they attracted benefits for both attendances, be disadvantaged. In fact it may be that patients of optometrists will in the overall picture be charged 20c less for the services that they receive. I will not argue that point to any length but I challenge the Minister on his estimate of the relative cost to the patient in the 2 different professional groups. 
Another important point which we should realise is that even though the Government has denied Commonwealth benefits to the patients of either ophthalmologists or optometrists there is still operating a discrimination against optometrists, particularly in New South Wales. This discrimination does not exist in every State but in New South Wales the major open funds, the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia and the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, do provide fund benefits to patients of ophthalmologists but not to patients of optometrists. I think it is unfair. After all, these funds operate within the province of the National health scheme. I do not think they have any right to make this discrimination. It particularly penalises patients in outback areas. They have no access to ophthalmologists even if they choose to attend such persons. Therefore the ophthalmologists are discriminated against too. It is not a case of discrimination against one profession or another; it is a case of discrimination against one patient who chooses freely to go to an ophthalmologist rather than to an optometrist. Time is running out on me. I might take time later, if it is afforded me, to speak on the other matter 1 am concerned about which is the $2 Commonwealth benefit in respect of hospitalisation. 
Like the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  I feel disappointed that the Government has been unprepared to meet the very considered viewpoint determined in another place about this matter. It is true, as the honourable member has pointed out, that an amendment was moved in this Committee on a previous occasion. That amendment required much closer scrutiny than what the Senate has now called for. The honourable member for Kingston has enunciated the requirements which were involved in that amendment. I should like to refresh the memory of the Committee with the recommendations of the Senate, the amendment that has come from another place to this place and to show in contrast the part that is proposed to be eliminated in accordance with the Minister's speech made a short time ago. The Senate has asked for details of how the reserve fund has been invested. I understand that that part of the amendment is acceptable to the Government. Then from the Senate has come a proposal that we should also seek, require and write into the legislation a provision making it necessary to provide details of direct or indirect interest in shareholdings held by directors in a fund in organisations in which the fund's reserves have been invested. I understand from what the Minister has said that the Government is not prepared to accept that provision. I rise to speak because I believe that this Committee, and no doubt the country at large, is entitled to a better explanation as to why the Government is so intent on eliminating that particular provision. After all, we live in an era when these things are under suspicion and, in my view, justifiably under suspicion. We have heard recently of involvements in Comalco, for instance. When we come to public funds, in my view the public has a right to know precisely who is involved and to what extent. There should not be any reason at all foi the Government to be intent on clouding over the provision and the availability of this kind of information. 1 think honourable members will recall that the Nimmo Committee has looked closely at this matter and has made recommendations about it. In its report, that Committee gave close and detailed attention to the reserves held by funds. I am not sure what amount these reserves represented; I think they are about $70m at present. 
They have gone well above that? This is a large sum of money, and how is it employed? The Nimmo Committee took a sample group of these organisations - a 'representative group' was the term the Committee used - and they showed reserves of $52.8m. They showed that 3.61% or $l.9m was invested in shares, 10.9% or S5.8m in debentures, 8.2% or $4.3m in mortgages, and 1.4% or $1.74m in other investments. 
Whether or not it is from OPSM, which is the organisation that make glasses. I do not know but I think we have a right to know. I am concerned to note that the yield from all these investments amounted to only 5%. The fact of the matter is that even the Commonwealth seeks a higher interest on its money these days and requires everyone else to get more for their money. I think the shareholders and the people represented by voluntary health insurance funds also have an expectation of receiving a higher yield, if that is the way the country is to be run. 
The Minister had something to say about the matter on 4th March this year when he referred to the investment of fund reserves. I bel:eve he has jettisoned and repudiated the stand he took earlier. He said that the friendly society funds were already required to confine their investments to trustee investments and that many open funds also substantially followed this practice. He also said that the Government had closely examined this proposal and had concluded that funds had generally displayed a proper sense of responsibility in the matter of investments. It has also been noted, he said, that the non-trustee investments, which some funds hold, have generally produced good returns. That varies with what I showed a moment ago in terms of statistics. The Minister also said that the Government had therefore decided not to adopt the recommendation but to permit some degree of flexibility in the matter of investments. 
I remind the Minister of the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee in this regard; they were most unambiguous and forthright. In fact, they gave rise to the amendment first moved by the member for Kingston, subsequently moved in another place and now moved on 2 occasions in a repetitive sense - in an insistent sense. Honourable senators in another place believe that this is a most important matter. They regard it as important for the same reason the member for Kingston regards it as important and that the recent Nimmo Committee regarded it as being important. That Commitee states: 
We  recommend  that a condition of registration applicable  to  all organisations bc that their investments bc confined to trustee securities under the laws of the Stale in which the organisations are located. 
There is no provision at all that requires  that.  The Committee continued as follows:  That the investments of organisations be limited to trustee investments under the laws of the Stale in which they are located. 
We wonder why one part of this amendment has been accepted while the important part - that is, the details of direct or indirect interests in shareholdings held by directors - is not being upheld by this Government. 
Yes indeed. We. are talking about pecuniary interest. In any held of government starting with the basic form of government - local government - pecuniary interest is something that must be manifested, something that must come to the surface. Any alderman or councillor in any shire in this country has to reveal his pecuniary interest. Yet we find on this occasion the Government upholding a situation that is at variance with and is the complete negative of this well-established Australian practice. People have a right to be inquisitive about these things and to ask: Is it possible for people who are directing voluntary insurance funds to be in a position where they manipulate these funds? If they manipulate them, what amount of extra benefit accrues to them? 
In another place we do not have a predominance of Labor Party people at all. This proposal has been dealt with twice in that chamber and, in the wisdom of honourable senators in that place it has been sent back to us twice. I submit that the reason why it has come back with such dedicated insistence is that the principle is so well established and that the Minister, if he intends to depart from it, is obligated to give to this Parliament reasons why we are heading off in some other direction. It is the job of this Government to protect the public: It is not its job to protect people with private interests, to protect shareholders, or to allow people to hide behind the cloak of obscurity. I strongly recommend with the utmost enthusiasm that the Minister, if necessary, defer consideration of the matter until he has a chance to have another look at the enormous ramifications. I think it will be a sad day indeed for Australia, as we head off again into another era of voluntary insurance with large sums of money to be accrued, if we make it possible for funds to bs invested in a way that could be against the best interest of the contributors and the Australian public at large. 
 I support the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  in his contention that the situation in regard to this matter should be expressed more clearly and be above board. I am pleased to note that half the battle has already been won. It is not very long ago that the Minister contended in the Committee of this House that it was unreasonable to expect the names of the doctors who sit on this committee to be known to the public. In a matter of a week or 2 he has completely reversed his attitude in this regard. The previous contention was that the doctors concerned would be inundated with representations from pharmaceutical companies and the like. Now, the amendment provides that these doctors' names are to be published in the Commonwealth 'Gazette'. 
The Opposition sensibly enough contended that anyone - particularly the big drug companies with all the resources at their disposal - would find out in any case who were the people who decide which drugs should come on to the free medicine list of this country. The Minister refused to accept the counsel and fairly sensible contention that was being made by the Opposition. But the matter has come from another place on several occasions, and the sheer weight of numbers and the sheer insistence by the other place has caused a further evaluation and a capitulation by the Minister and the Government. Apparently there has not yet been sufficient pressure in regard to this other matter. How many honourable members sitting in the Committee tonight have received representations from patients, and especially from doctors? The doctors are the more significant ones, particularly those who contend that a drug is essential to the wellbeing of a patient and that because of its price it ought to be included in the free list. 
Often we make representations to the Minister. We receive a reply to the effect that the Committee has determined that there is a substitute that is available in respect of a certain drug. But the doctor steadfastly says: 'I have conducted clinical trials in regard to this and other patients, and I refuse to accept this. In the interests of my patient I still want you to continue your efforts to get this particular drug included in the free medicine list.' We are talking in terms of very big money when we talk about these things, and not only the wellbeing of people, as significant as that is. In fact, there can be nothing more significant than this. We are now in an era of increasing accountability. Members of the public have an expectation about accountability. People cannot sit in remote places any more, pontificating and dropping decisions from great heights, without expecting others to say: 'Why have you done that?' I believe that this principle applies to the matter under consideration. 
The rights of the subservient and the rights of the citizen are expanding. The rights of the medical profession, of the pharmacists and of the people in these allied fields are expanding. Indeed, the rights of the manufacturers themselves ought to be expanding. They ought to have the opportunity to know why their drug has not been accepted if it measures up to therapeutic and other standards. There are some people in this country who are very well informed about these things and who contend that the brand name system which seems to be predominant in regard to drugs on the free medical list is doing a great disservice to the people of this country. They contend that we are paying for brand names. Lots of people say we would be much better off to have a generic system, that we should use generic names instead of brand names, and that if we did this we would save a great deal of money. 
I remember raising this matter in the House some years ago. I had good advice from people who were well informed on the matter, and it received a lot of attention from the then Minister for Health, who has since passed on. As a consequence of these representations we were able to save this country many millions of dollars. We established that the same drug under various trade names was being financed by the Commonwealth in relation to the pensioner medical scheme and the free medical scheme. It was found that there was an enormous variation of price being paid not only by the public but also by the Government itself. As I say, because of the rationalised approach many millions of dollars were saved. 
I want to draw attention to the enormous financial consequences that are involved in this matter. According to the annual report of the Department of Health the total cost of pharmaceutical benefits in 1968-69, including patients' contributions on prescription benefits available to the general public, amounted to $136m. This indicates the highly competitive state of the matter that we are talking about. If a drug is admitted to the free medical list by this committee it may be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. We know the highly competitive state that exists. The drug companies in this country are in the main sycophants of overseas companies. About 95% of the 120 major drug companies in this country are subsidiaries of overseas concerns. If one conducts a study into these matters one can ascertain that drugs produced are obtainable more inexpensively in other countries than they are made available in Australia by the same company. A bonanza is operating in Australia for drug companies. 
I believe it is necessary to contrive a means by which these things should be brought under close scrutiny. This House has made some inroads into this principle tonight in several ways. We have decided that the people who make the decisions are no longer to be obscured or hidden from public view. I believe it is necessary that their decisions should be exposed.  Mr Chairman,  I draw your attention to the fact that last year, according to the DirectorGeneral's report, 44 new items were added to the list and there were 71 new strengths and forms of existing benefits. Although that number is considerable it can be established that they represent an infinitesimal proportion of the number of submissions made to this Committee. I do not care what the Committee is nor how well informed it is. Like most citizens I am not prepared to concede any rights, any decision making, to anyone unless I have an opportunity of knowing the reasons why they arrive at those decisions. I believe it is even more important when the matter involves this country in such enormous amounts of money. Last year the overall benefit prescription volume increased by $5m or 9% to $60m. It amounts to many millions of dollars. 
I believe that pharmacists, doctors and others who are involved professionally in this industry take the view that the more exposure there is the better. The Minister has said that to do so would intensify public controversy. I think they are the very words he used. Would there be something wrong with a development of this kind? What is wrong with intensifying public controversy when life and death are involved? What is wrong with requiring people to account for themselves when somebody contends that certain drugs are necessary and a committee in an obscure back room is saying that it is not necessary to include such drugs on the list? One wonders why the Minister is so prone to see virtues in such a situation.I strongly recommend that the Committee should give the recommendations from another place the utmost support so that these matters can be ventilated and the whole matter of determining which drugs are made available to pensioners and people who benefit from the free medicne scheme can receive the ventilation and public examination which it deserves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Ordered: 
That  Mr Holten. Mr Kelly,  and  Dr Forbes  be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to amendments Nos 3 and 8 of the Senate. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has a licence been given to Australian Territory Liner Services, a joint company formed by the Karlander-Nabalco Group, to introduce 2 new Bulgarian built freighters the 'Safia' and Sariba', to trade in the North Queensland and Gulf of Carpentaria area. 
Has the licensing of these foreign built vessels to the Gulf service: 
disadvantaged the Australian shipping company, John Burke Pty Ltd, causing it to defer indefinitely construction in an Australian shipyard of its second roll-on rolloff freighter; 
caused over tonnaging in the Gulf service which may lead to rises in freight costs; 
set new freight rates for the Bulgarian built vessels with which Australian built vessels cannot compete; 
breached the spirit of the Navigation Act and the 1957 Coastal Shipping Agreement by not giving priority to established operators to supply the increased tonnage required; and, 
given Australian Territory Liner Services  extensive Taxation and depreciation benefits not available to operators registered on the Australian mainland. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
For how long have life insurance premiums been an allowable deduction for income tax purposes and what has been the maximum amount claimable from time to time. 
Are there any limitations or qualifications which apply to a life policy in order that the premiums thereon may be treated as allowable deductions. 
What is the approximate cost to revenue of these deductions. 
Is he aware of any abuse of the income tax provisions such as the offering by insurance companies of life policies for a short term of years. 
If so, has any consideration been given to amending the conditions under which life insurance premiums qualify as tax deductions. 
asked the Minister for  External  Territories, upon notice: 
Were Royal Australian Navy patrol boats stationed at H.M.A.S. Tarangau, the naval base at Los Negros Island, deployed to Rabaul on two occasions during the recent multi-racial council disturbances. 
At whose instigation was this deployment undertaken. 
Were patrol boat commanders authorised to intervene in the Rabaul disturbances; if so, in what circumstances. 
Were any other units of the armed services deployed to supplement police action at Rabaul; if so, which units were involved. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What precautions are taken in (a) each State and (b) Commonwealth Territories to protect the Australian consumer public from diseased poultry meat. 
Can he say if there are protective arrangements in operation in other countries; if so, what are these arrangements. 
Is it possible that diseases may be prevalent in poultry food which is readily available to the Australian consumer. 
Is any action contemplated to facilitate uniform legislation among the States about this matter. 
I ask a question of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. Is assistance to be given to the Gurindji Aboriginal people at Wattie Creek who for years have sought to establish a cattle mustering enterprise? Has the Government yet undertaken any cost analysis or feasibility study of this proposed Aboriginal enterprise? Is the Government finding difficulty in meeting the Gurindji tribe's request for finance for horses, harness and plant and the return of some of their land for the grazing of horses? 
asked the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What (a) Commonwealth and (b) State laws discriminate against Aborigines. 
I am pleased that this matter has come before the Parliament. I understand that an amendment has been moved to refer it back to the Public Works Committee. I think it would be a good thing if the amendment were defeated, since the Public Works Committee has applied itself assiduously to this matter. The Parliament should accept the responsibility of determining this controversial question. The Public Works Committee is an agent of the Parliament. It cannot be gainsaid that its task was undertaken in a most painstaking way and it is appropriate that its report should command the attention and time of the Parliament, since this is a matter which could affect a large number of people in one of the largest cities in Australia, lt is not a question of affecting them for a short time but of affecting them in perpetuity, if it does affect them at all. In addition we are dealing with a proposal that was referred to the Public Works Committee and which, together with other expenditure that has taken place at Tullamarine, aggregates some $85m of Commonwealth money. So it is not good enough for one to rubbish the idea, as did the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and try to disparage the criticism that has been levelled in this matter by categorising it as having come from gentlemen from New South Wales. The fact is that there are some gentlemen from New South Wales who are concerned about these things. I suppose that this could well result from the fact that in New South Wales there has been an experience with the unsatisfactory location of airports, and Mascot Airport is the principal case in point. 1 am no exception to that general rule since I live on the perimeter of Sydney near the southern part of Mascot. 
My sensitivity to this matter has been alerted by the fact that not long ago there was a proposal to extend the international airport facilities from Mascot into my electorate on the southern part of Botany Bay at Towra Point. When my own local government authority became sufficiently concerned about this proposal to let the people know precisely what the effects were the community of about 150,000 rose in their wrath and with such a voluminous roar that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  who also represents part of this area, was caused to change his attitude, which harboured the idea of an airport in that particular place. He reversed his attitude. As the local government conducted its campaign in opposition to the proposal with simulated aircraft, the relatively indifferent community, as it was initially, rose up and declared: 'We are not going to have this and the ballot box will be our redress unless we are listened to by our representatives'. What was the sequel? As the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was leaving to go overseas he announced, in company with a number of Liberal candidates from St George, Barton and Cook, that this proposal would be abandoned. 1 did not want this proposal for my electorate. I make no apologies for saying this, and I do not want such a proposal to be imposed in an unreasonable way in any other electorate. It is true that, as the honourable member for La Trobe has said, it is proper to consult people in the neighbouring communities. The Public Works Committee went to great trouble to hear the voice of the people from the city of Keilor, which is the closest neighbouring city. I understand that it is a city of some 70,000 people. The Public Works Committee listened intently. There did not seem to be any deviants from the substantial point of view that permeated out of that community through their spokesmen on the local government authority that the people of Keilor to a man did not want the curfew lifted and they certainly did not want this runway extended close to their community. 
Members of the Committee travelled round in a bus and saw signs that were put up for our benefit by the Keilor City Council indicating the noise level that would occur in given circumstances. Not everybody has had the opportunity to appreciate what these signs really mean. It is hard to assimilate the purport of these signs as one travels round in such a cursory and superficial way, but in the end it comes down to the fact that people will be affected in hospital, that children will be distracted from their efforts to gain an education, that families will be unable to watch television without interruption, that radio reception will be interfered with, that telephone conversations will be impaired, that shiftworkers will be unable to sleep and that other factors of this type will be involved. I regard it with the utmost seriousness. 
I believe that this is primarily what governments are for - to act on behalf of the people. It is not good enough to have executive action. It is not good enough to have a superficial rubber stamping of executive decisions and to have the community following in the wake of people who want to call the tune about these things. I know areas in Sydney which have the highest rate of suicide in New South Wales. Some social workers, psychiatrists and others attribute that to this kind of nuisance and complaint. So we, the gentlemen from New South Wales - that is the disparaging term Which was used about us - do not have to make any apology for the concern we are manifesting for the people of Keilor and neighbouring communities. I for one will not accept the terra that was used. 
Not too long ago the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in the face of a lot of opposition from local government decided to set up a new committee comprising representatives of local government who would have their ears to the ground in the matter of aircraft noise. But what happened? When the voice of local government, the arm of government closest to the people, speaks out in an emphatic way as it did in Keilor, we are inclined to minimise the importance of what is said. How can you contend, on the one hand, that a committee should be set up to give local government authorities the opportunity to be vocal about these matters and then, on the other hand, set it aside in such an out of hand way? 
I turn to the Prime Minister. Mention has been made by previous speakers of his strong convictions that the curfew should be lifted and that the matters to which 1 and other honourable members have referred are of little consequence. I take a very dim view of the fact that the Prime Minister has been so unequivocal, so unambiguous, in his emphatic attitude to this matter. Before the Committee charged with the job of considering this matter on behalf of the Parliament had concluded its recommendations and before the Parliament had had an opportunity to consider them, the Prime Minister moved in and made his announcement that there was to be no curfew. If there is such a term as sub judice' and if it has any bona fides, I would say that the matter should have been regarded as sub judice and the Prime Minister's action the height of indiscretion. It would be a good thing for this Parliament to operate in a democratic way through the Committee and for a diminution to take place in the personal rule which is starting to prevail in the Parliament. We have seen it in other countries. The Prime Minister would do well to think of the fate of Sukarno, for example, and others who were so heavy handed in this regard. 1 will not refer in any detail to the proposals which went before the Committee. Suffice to say that T am not seeking to exonerate my own point of view although I happen to be one man out on the Committee. Weighing up all aspects of the matter I took the view that the further it was practicable, to shift the north south runway from Keilor the better it would be. I hold the view that the amount of money involved is not of great consequence considering that $85m has already been expended. I understand that the cost differential is the amount between $5.2m, the cost of the proposal being recommended by the Committee, and $7. 3m which is the cost of the alternative scheme. The alternative scheme involves relocating the runway to such an extent that it would inconvenience the people of Keilor to a lesser degree. I know the importance of the runway as do all honourable members; I know the importance of getting value for money and I know that Boeing 747s will land there, that they have twice the payload capacity of Boeing 707s and that they will fly in single stages from Tullamarine to Hong Kong. Manila, Honolulu and other ports. But like several honourable members who preceded me in the debate, I feel that the lifting of the curfew represents obtuseness of a kind which could manifest itself in most undesirable ways in other capital and large provincial cities in Australia. 
It is not a matter of being cheesed off because Sydney will be second best or anything like that. I know the adverse effects which already have accrued, and if those aircraft are to leave Tullamarine and land in Sydney at an undesirable time the situation will be aggravated. I say authoritatively that the lifting of the curfew represents an obtuseness. I was very impressed to see the assiduous manner in which the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise undertook its work. Members of the Committee sought advice and information from authorities in many parts of the world. I happen to have with me a statement of one point of view. It is contained in a letter from the Manager Operations Services of Qantas Airways Ltd to the Secretary of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. The letter states: 
I am attaching a list of night operating restrictions which arc applied at certain international airports for  the  purpose of noise alleviation, as you requested on the telephone the other day. 
The information listed is the latest we have from IATA - 
That is the International Air Transport Association -  and does not cover every international airport in the world by any means. However, it is representative of the kind of restrictions which are applied in various parts of the world. 
Apparently we are happy enough to say to Tullamarine that we are prepared to lift the curfew in all respects, not merely as to planes operating for 24 hours a day. We do not seem to care what kind of noise they will make on the ground. . We do not seem to think that other kinds of curfews can be imposed. I do not know whether honourable members listening to me are interested to see this information in detail. If they are, I should like to see it incorporated in Hansard. In any event, it lists some 24 major international airports where there are a variety of limitations if not total curfews. We are prepared to say that there will be no curfew of any kind for Tullamarine but in these international airports to which I have referred, some of the largest in the world, there are curfews in respect of night flying, take-off at certain times of the day, ground running at certain times of the day, reverse thrust and so on. Looking at the list cursorily one can see that there are 60 or 70 different kinds of curfews relating to the noise menace and possibly to the pollution menace. It seems to me that the wide sweeping recommendations about lifting the curfew can stand some further examination. I am sure that our Committee is not likely to reverse its decision if the matter is referred back to it for consideration. I certainly am not here to disparage its work because I know that the members concerned were worried and sincerely considered the point put to them. I know, too, that the decision at which they arrived was arrived at on balance. The decision I took was not taken without very serious contemplation. If the Parliament requires or aspires to an alternative decision to that recommended by the Public Works Committee honourable members will have to accept a bit of responsibility and learn a bit more about aircraft noise, the views of the people of Keilor and matters of that kind. 
I believe that the debate has been worthwhile. I sincerely hope that we are not hoist with our own petard, that we are just not so anxious to get value for the $85m we have spent at Tullamarine that we will generate a concurrent or a subsequent number of problems in other parts of Australia. I have little doubt that the real reason for lifting the curfew at this time was out of consideration for one substantial private operator in Australia, and if the generation of the problem results in many thousands of householders in various parts of Australia being adversely affected for decades and generations to come, it will be a reflection not only on the Government but indeed on every member of this Parliament. 
1 am glad that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has expressed his concern about these several matters affecting the Adelaide mail exchange. I believe that the Commonwealth Government is deficient in being unwilling to make adequate parking arrangements available. There was no formal dissension by any member of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Works, including myself, about the inadequacy of parking arrangements. Nevertheless I was one who took the opportunity to express my concern at the Committee meeting. I rose in this debate to indicate that 1 am not likely to be inclined in the future to be as amenable about parking arrangements for future projects which come before the Committee. 
It is a matter of grave concern to me that the wishes of the local government authority - in this case the Council of the City of Adelaide - have been disregarded. This is a $5.5m project. When a private developer takes such an application before a local government authority it is normal for a parking requirement to be imposed. If it is considered that it is a bad thing to channel traffic in a city then often a contribution is required towards the provision of parking facilities in another area. 
The Committee had before it some evidence suggesting that until the undeveloped property is completed there will be 72 or more spaces available for parking. These are to be shared by the staff of not only the exchange building - the subject of this report - but other post offices and establishments of the Postmaster-General's Department in the area. The parking spaces available  for  employees in this building will  be  reduced by the number used by staff in other establishments; yet this building is to accommodate 1,400 people. Clearly the parking provisions are quite inadequate. It is significant that a submission was made by the City of Adelaide to the effect that a 3-storey parking facility was considered necessary for this Commonwealth development. That is a very substantial requirement. A very strong call is made by the local government authority in this case. Instead of getting a 3-storey facility to accommodate the cars for the 1,400 employees we are going to utilise some land, the bulk of which in the long run will be developed for other Postal Department purposes. 1 do not think this is good enough at all. I believe that the Public Works Committee did the right thing in expressing concern in its report. 
The Committee particularly noted the fact that an interdepartmental committee was concerning itself with parking so far as projects of this kind are concerned. The Committee also took the opportunity to invite representatives of the Public Works Department who are specialists on parking to appear before it. The report that these officers gave - I have a copy of it before me at the moment - clearly indicates that there is an unwillingness in terms of current Government policy to meet the parking requirements considered necessary by local government authorities. 1 do not intend to lake the time of the House in going through this report. I think honourable members might prefer to take my word for what I am saying rather than have me read from this fairly tedious document. The effect of the report is that the Public Works Department has a certain criterion for parking in respect of Commonwealth establishments. To me it is as plain as a pikestaff that the criterion is insufficient and certainly does not comply with local government requirements. In my view we are getting at local government from many directions. We do not pay rates; we often make ex-gratia payments. We arc not making the same kind of contributions to things like parking and beautification, as the honourable member for Adelaide mentioned, as would comparable developers. 
For my part, I am not prepared to sit on a Public Works Committee, which is the agent of this Parliament on matters concerning public works, and be silent about matters upon which I have a very sincere conviction. I am serving notice now on whoever might care to take note of it - particularly those people who put projects before the Public Works Committee - that I am not prepared to be silent on any of these matters in the future if they do not in my view measure up to a requirement which will contribute to the beautification and livability of cities in terms of the policy which I, my Leader and my party consistently espouse. 
I think the House should be informed of the reason why the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  is being replaced. The honourable member took office as  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Publications only recently.  His  chairmanship has been very forthright and strong. I hope no action is being taken against him because of the independent leadership he has shown. Whilst I must pay a tribute to him for the service he has given to the Committee, I should say that, as a member of the Committee, I am not adverse to the proposal that he be replaced. I understand that the honourable member's successor will be a person who has served in a similar capacity on a previous occasion. Since the replacement of the honourable member for North Sydney is clouded with mystery, I feel that an explanation to the House of what has been embarked on up to this point of time would be most advantageous. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the introduction of legislation for price and profit control would protect consumers from exploitation through unwarranted inflation of prices. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will take immediate steps to introduce price and profit control legislation to protect the citizens of this nation. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The fringe benefits are available only to a very small proportion of the pensioner community. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  would be aware of this if he cared to study the figures. In 1949-50 the married pension rate was 21.9 per cent of the average male earnings. When it reached $13.25 per week, which was the rate before this Budget was brought down, it represented only 17.1 per cent of average male earnings. This was a fall of 4.8 per cent. Similar deteriorations have occurred in repatriation pensions, unemployment and sickness benefits and in many other social services. 
The discredited system of ad hoc handouts in the period preceding elections has created social service anomalies which baffle understanding. When this Budget was introduced a married pensioner couple received $26.50 per week. I want honourable members to consider the case of 3 different units of 2 people. A married pensioner couple receives $26.50 a week; an invalid pensioner and his dependant wife receives $22 a week; and a person on unemployment or sickness benefit with a dependant receives $17 per week. In those 3 different cases, each involving units of 2 people, we see a differential. The maximum difference is $9.50 per week. Let us take units of 3 people: A class A widow with 2 children under 16 years of age receives $27 per week; an invalid pensioner with a wife and a child receives $24.50 per week; and a person receiving sickness benefit who has a wife and child receives $19,50 per week. The maximum difference in those 3 rates is $7.50 per week. Can the Minister for Social Services, who is sitting at the table and who is to speak later in the debate, explain the reasons for these anomalies? Can he explain why, under the Social Services Act, couples receive differentials up to $9.50 per week where there are  2  people and differentials up to $7.50 per week where there are 3 people? Units of people may be living next door to one another with precisely the same commitments. They may shop at the same butcher and baker and pay the same rent. But under our Social Services Act we have allowed this kind of schemozzle to develop, lt is time that these unaccountable injustices were swept away and that people in identical circumstances were given uniformly high rates which should be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the upward movements in average male earnings. 
If the Minister for Social Services speaks on social services he would make an impact if he indicated the Government's policy on child endowment. After all, the rate for the first child has remained unaltered for 18 years; the rate for the second child has remained unaltered for 20 years and the rate for the third child for 4 years In 1949 a couple with 3 children received endowment amounting to 11.5 per cent of average male earnings. They now receive not 11.5 per cent but only 5 per cent. If the value of child endowment had been maintained they would now be getting $12 per week in endowment but in fact they receive $6.75 per week. Would the Minister care to comment on this deteriorating situation? Through the Government's inaction many such families have joined the 1 million who, according to the Australian Institute of Political Science, are now said to be living in poverty. I believe a national inquiry into social services is needed. Social service provisions in this country are now relics of the horse and buggy days. To redress the situation a national inquiry - preferably a royal commission - should be undertaken without delay. Among other things, an examination of the need to abolish the means test and to provide a national superannuation scheme - a contributory scheme if this is considered desirable - should be undertaken. 1 am reminded of a question on notice answered by the Minister for Social Services - it must have been answered with some embarrassment - on 21st April this year. In his answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition the Minister named 123 countries which have a national superannuation scheme. The list commenced with Afghanistan and Albania; it included Bolivia, Brazil, China, Iceland, Peru, Spain and went right down to Yugoslavia and Zambia. As 1 have said, 123 countries have a national superannuation scheme. But where was Australia? It was not listed. This country which once proudly and honestly professed to lead the world in social services is not even amongst the 123 countries that at present have a national superannuation scheme. Would I be incorrect in recalling that in the days before he became Minister for Social Services the honourable member for Mackellar was loud and clear in his contention that a national superannuation scheme was necessary? May I take the Minister's silence as acquiescence? May I inquire whether he is still forcibly endeavouring to encourage the Government to introduce this provision which even the honourable member for Holt, who preceded me in this debate, contends is so necessary if people are to receive the justice they deserve? 
The Budget provisions relating to repatriation benefits are of a meagre nature and fall far short of the Returned Services League pension plan which is upheld by the Labor Opposition. In addition there is still a longstanding need to relieve repatriation appellants of the onus of proof provisions, which are found in section 47 of the Repatriation Act, in respect of claims for disability pensions and medical treatment. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is listening to me at the moment. I want to draw his attention to a situation equally as serious as that to which I referred under the heading of social services. The 1968-69 report of the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal shows the unhappy state of repatriation in Australia. The report shows that the Tribunal dealt with 2,432 appeals in the year of which it disallowed 2,061, which in anyone's language would appear to be an unusually high proportion. The Tribunal in its report trenchantly criticised the Repatriation Commission for shoddy and substandard documentation. I do not know whether the Minister is aware of this but I read from a printed report which has been circulated to all honourable members. The report reads: 
The Tribunal views with concern the continuing decline in accuracy of the typed summaries of evidence made available by the Commission in all States. 
Many errors are quite grotesque and often most misleading- if not detected and corrected they could actually prejudice the successful prosecution of an appeal. Quite apart from the additional time required before and during hearings, much confusion is caused by advocates and medical advisers being required to work from corrupt copies before the Tribunal can assist at a hearing to set the record straight. 
This is the annual report of the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal. Perhaps the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  might like to hand the report to the Minister. Strong words such as 'grotesque' errors, 'corrupt copies', and 'prejudice the prosecution of an appeal' were used in this report. If ever a Minister for Repatriation had a case to answer it is this frank and forthright assault from one of his official departmental entities which operates under the auspices of the Minister for Repatriation. If the Minister is not inclined to concern himself seriously about this matter I hope that in the interests of justice to Australian ex-servicemen, who are getting a pretty raw deal under the provisions of the Budget, the Prime Minister might have a discussion with the Minister for Repatriation. After that I believe all honourable members will be interested to hear what the 
Prime Minister says in answer to the questions which 1 for one intend to raise in this House about misleading information being made available in relation to claims of ex-servicemen for pensions and medical treatment. 
I intend to use the short time remaining for some comments on education. 1 know that some honourable members opposite may not be interested in what I have to say. After all, an official survey shows that only 10.5 per cent of Federal Liberal members of Parliament send their children to State secondary schools. The survey shows that none of the children of the 26 Federal Ministers has attended or is at a State secondary school. It also shows that 92 per cent are at private non-Catholic schools and 8 per cent at Catholic schools. This may explain the reason for the continued indifference of the Government about the inadequate educational opportunities for the children of this country. I believe that when the House studies the report of the Australian Education Council, which has been prepared for the State governments, we will have before this Parliament the strongest indictment of any matter that we have had for many years. We know that the States want the Commonwealth to share in meeting the $550m annual cost of running government schools. This cost is rising by $40m per annum. Recurrent expenditure on primary and secondary education is increasing at the rate of more than 50 per cent every 5 years. There is a rapid rise in enrolments. We are reaching an explosive situation so far as the provision of schools and properly trained staff is concerned. Children are staying at school longer. We are finding that more and more unqualified teachers are being pressed into the breach. Resignations from the teaching profession are running at the rate of 4,000 per annum. This represents 14 per cent of the teaching service in New South Wales. By 1975 we are told that  30,000  extra teachers will be needed but at this point of time we cannot see where they will come from. This Government remains inactive, inept and inert in this situation. Is it because 10.5 per cent of Federal Liberal members of Parliament send their children to State schools and no Ministers send their children to State schools? Have they marked them off as inadequate? Have they stopped caring? It seems to me in this regard that we can see for ourselves that there is an indifference which will create great havoc for the people of Australia. 
Let me mention some matters in relation to universities. I think honourable members know the present situation. Regardless of scholastic ability only 2 per cent of children of unskilled workers get a university education. We know the other inequalities in education. We know that 40,000 potential students are denied university education because they are females. This is a contention of the experts. We know the Government's attitude to the indigenes of Papua and New Guinea. Only one-third of those of school age are receiving an education. We know the situation with Australian Aboriginals and the inequitable opportunities they get. My point is that thousands of talented young Australians are being denied the opportunity to advance themselves through higher education because of economic barriers. Barriers that once were barely surmountable have now become impregnable. 
Recently, in answer to a question I asked, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  gave me a schedule showing the increase in university fees for 1970. In more than 200 university courses substantial increases in fees have taken place. I give some examples. At the University of Sydney the costs of courses this year were raised by the following amounts: Education, engineering, social studies and 6 other courses by $280; architecture and dentistry by $350; arts honours by $484; medicine by $466; and veterinary science by $450. The fees for 25 courses at the University have been increased in one fell swoop At the University of New South Wales the fees for 49 courses were increased. The hardest hit were those relating to social workers. The fees for the social work course were increased by $487 for a pass and $468 for an honours course. Even Commonwealth departments like the Department of Labour and National Service, the Department of Immigration, the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Social Services have but a nominal skeleton staff of trained social workers. While the drug clinics, psychiatric centres and hospitals are crying out for social workers this Government indifferently allows the course fee in one fell swoop to rise by $487. This, of course, is widening the economic gulf that separates many workers' children from educational opportunities. 1 will be interested to know whether the Minister for Social Services, who is sitting opposite me, has any views on this matter. 
We have seen crocodile tears for the rural community. In this year of crisis for Australian farmers it is interesting to see how this Government is prepared to stand idly by while agricultural science courses are sabotaged. The costs of agricultural economics and rural science courses at the University of New England have been increased by $278. The cost of a wool technology course at the University of New South Wales has risen by $274. At Queensland University, where fees have been increased for 24 courses, the cost of the course in agriculture is up by $288, for veterinary science by $210 and for surveying by $257. Every university in Australia is affected by the new and frightening philosophy of education only for the privileged. Let me conclude with this bonanza: At James Cook University the cost of courses in arts, commerce and economics were increased by no less than $627, while for geology, geophysics and science the cost rose by an alarming and unprecedented figure of $675. 1 indict the Commonwealth Government. lt must accept responsibility for this situation. The Gorton Government actually requires the States to slug student fees us it is only by these means that State governments can accumulate funds for universities which attract Commonwealth matching grants. The Commonwealth Government is therefore responsible for massive increases in fees for over 200 courses in 12 Australian universities. Australia is being deprived of technologists and capable people who will be needed in the future. Because of these matters and because of social service, repatriation and education deficiencies the Government stands indicted and. indeed, condemned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Hughes respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy al present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity. 
Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children. 
only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies. 
nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable Mouse make legal provision for: 
a joint Commonwealth State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities. 
the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aborigines, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children. 
the provision of pre school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of  the  Senate and the Honourable the  Speaker  and 
Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I was not going to speak in this debate, but 
I find myself intrigued by the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  For that matter, I find myself attracted very much to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  This is the first time that he has had any great fascination for me. One thing that has always had an appeal for me is the characteristic of regularity, which I think is very conducive to good health. In that regard, since there are 2 schedules of time involved, I would refer to those which were first mooted by the Minister for Social Services as the WC proposals. That would possibly simplify the case that I want to make. First of all, 1 see in the Committee's recommendations a great deal of thought and contemplation, and I pay tribute to the very assiduous work that it has done. I cannot help but feel that the product of its efforts results, from the standpoint of starting times at least, in what one could describe as a pakapu ticket. 
In 8 sitting days the proposed starting times run something like this: 2 p.m., 2 p.m., 10 a.m., 10 a.m., 2 p.m., 10. a.m., 2 p.m., 10 a.m. I know the undoubted calibre of honourable members in this place but I strongly doubt whether even they will know when the starting times will be. I have very grave doubts about the capacity of the public to know about the regular sitting hours of the Parliament. From the standpoint of regular habits I think - and this is my own point of view - that the first mistake was made when we jettisoned the regular day which, hitherto, we have been able to spend in our electorates. I have a strong eccentricity about this matter. The constituents ought to know when a member will be available on a regular basis, except for the exceptional eventuality when he is overseas or is serving on a standing committee or something of that kind. I know that many of my colleagues have said for years that they have been available in their electorates every Monday. The breaking of this regular habit will be a backward step. 
I am not at all convinced by the arguments of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  that the proposition that members should sit through the dinner break is disadvantageous or disastrous. When all is said and done, it is the practice of honourable members now to stagger the morning tea and supper periods. They go out without very much inconvenience to the House. A rationalised and unofficial approach is made to this kind of thing. From my brief experience of the House of Commons at Westminster I know that the same kind of thing happens there. It does not present any problem. The question of staff has been raised. Staff anywhere are entitled to consideration. Nevertheless, I believe that we should take the fundamental view that the staff and all the ramifications of Parliament must revolve around the best interests of the members of Parliament. I suppose there would be many people who would be anxious to join the staff of this establishment. I support a policy of full employment. I would not mind seeing additional clerks and Hansard reporters, and even waiters and cooks, if it resulted in the better functioning of Parliament. If it is going to give the people a better Parliament I do not think there will be much quibbling about it from the public. 
The honourable member for Grayndler advocated a situation which I strongly uphold and to which I have referred as the WC proposals. These represent the characteristic of regularity. They would mean that for every day in the 8 successive days we would sit at 2 p.m. except for the Friday when we would sit at 10.30 a.m. After all, we would be leaving at 4 p.m. on that day anyway. In my view the outstanding virtues of this proposal are that we would be able to spend time regularly in consideration of our constituents' problems, in receiving deputations and engaging in research. We all concede that it is time the Parliament went beyond the cliche level of debate and talked more authoritatively about the things which make this country tick. It is pretty simple to talk about the net product of all our endeavours but we need to talk about the causes which make things happen. We need time for research. We need time to receive deputations and constituents and attend to their needs. More importantly, we need time for our committee activities. 
I am a typical member of this Parliament and today was a typical day. I was involved in 2 meetings of the Public Works Committee, a meeting of the Publications Committee, a meeting of my Party's Aboriginal Affairs Committee and a short time ago a meeting of my Party's Welfare Committee was scheduled. If there is any factor which causes this House to be empty and which gives the public an unsatisfactory impression and this Parliament a bad image it is the committee system which is making heavy inroads on our sitting time. 1 think the honourable member for Bradfield may be conceding the point I am making. We see hordes of honourable members going up the stairs and down the stairs and sitting in large numbers in committee rooms. The public comes along, other honourable members' constituents and mine, and how many times have we heard someone say: 'J was appalled to see the House empty. Where were they?' They were looking after their constituents' work. They were doing their research work and they were involved in this committee work which is intensifying all the  time.  That is the factor which more than anything else is bringing this Parliament into disrepute. If we set aside a regular period every morning to engage in these activities I think it would be found that the public would see honourable members in their numbers in the House because they would not be diverted by these other responsibilities. 
I strongly commend the proposals which are to be moved in the form of an amendment by the honourable member for Grayndler and which I understand were initiated by the Minister for Social Services. I believe we will get regularity into our affairs here if we adopt them. 1 believe the public will be tremendously advantaged by seeing a sensible application to the affairs of the Parliament. More importantly, we will all have time to rationalise our work properly, including the committee work and the other matters with which we are concerned. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in 1968 his predecessor announced proposals for the unification of the Naval Reserves. 
Has there been undue delay in having the new regulations prepared by the AttorneyGeneral's Department? 
In view of anomalies in the existing regulations and the need to maintain the Naval Reserve as an efficient organisation, will he take steps to expedite the drafting of these new regulations. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Interior. Did the New South Wales State Planning Authority, in its 'Sydney Outline Plan', strongly recommend the release of the LiverpoolHolsworthy military manoeuvre area to facilitate the natural growth of Sydney? Is it a fact that the 78 square miles held by the Commonwealth would house a quarter of a million people, could provide 40,000 job opportunities and provide a site for a new university? Is the Government likely to co-operate by relocating the military manoeuvre facility so that Sydney can expand in - the manner that the planners consider desirable? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What international airports throughout the world are known to be subject to night operating restrictions. 
What is the nature of the restrictions in each case. 
I am pleased to join in this debate, and unlike the dilemma in which the Government finds itself - that is that it is having difficulty finding sufficient speakers to keep this debate going - the Opposition's problem is the very antithesis of the one to which I have referred. A large number of Opposition members are anxious to talk about this matter - not that the matter is profound in the precise terms of the legislation. When it is all said and done this Bill will increase age, invalid and widows' pensions by 50c a week and will provide a longer term sickness benefit. I do not suppose people would ordinarily expect there to be much quibble about that kind of situation. What we are concerned about, of course, is the inadequacy of the amounts which will be paid under the provisions of this legislation,, and in addition those matters which are not referred to in any shape or form in either the Social Services Act or the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1970 which is now before the House. 
In regard to the increase in age, invalid and widow pensions, which are the subject of this Bill, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has said that in real terms nothing has been added to the base rate and nothing has been lost. I suppose that is the best of the recommendations that we can get. It comes from the horse's mouth, from the proposer of this legislation. I suppose that is a product of the fact that this year is not a general election year. The history of this Government is to provide relatively beneficial benefits in the period preceding general elections and only very small ones in the period in between. In my view what is lost is any respect that the community may have had for this Government's regard for the underprivileged people in Australia. There are of course the lost opportunities, and we all might have been justified in wondering what was going to happen. We might have been justified in having great expectations about the new look Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  who waxed so eloquent about social service matters soon after he took office. What has happened to him and his commitments to the underprivileged people of this country and to the new deal for social service beneficiaries to which he referred from time to time after taking office? He told the pensioners at a meeting at Mornington on 14th October 1968 that he had abandoned the old philosophy that the 
Government should only contribute by way of pensions and that relatives and others should make up the difference. He said: 
I have abandoned it myself and have abandoned it on behalf of the Liberal Party. 
In a letter to the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation in ' October 1968 he said: 
Our objective is a social welfare structure which identifies the most needy in the community and ensures that those who have no other means are provided with enough to live on, in  a  modest self-respecting way, without requiring any other assistance outside the pension. 
Yet 70 per cent of pensioners are said to have no other income and are required to live on the meagre and paltry amounts which are provided under this legislation. 
The amount on which a single age or invalid pensioner is expected to live is $15 a week. The amount payable for each married pensioner is $13.75 per week. To my way of thinking this is just not good enough. What is worse still is the extensive poverty that prevails amongst the pensioner community throughout Australia. The survey into poverty conducted by the University of Melbourne, Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research had some startling revelations. That survey showed that 20 per cent of the pensioners live in poverty. That is to say, 1 aged person or aged married couple in every 5 in that city is impoverished. Of course, after extreme poverty there comes marginal poverty. It is very hard to measure this area of poverty - a condition which in my view affects tens of thousands of Australian pensioners today. The thrifty and self respecting pensioners can, with the present rate of pension, be improverished when a special expense arises or when some unforeseen commitment happens to come their way. 
The Labor Party supports a system of additional allowances for special needs. Unfortunately the additional allowance scheme at the present time is limited to those pensioners who pay rent or board, who are dependent on the pension, and who live alone. But there are many extenuating circumstances which we ought to accommodate. In my own experience I have from time to time pensioners coming to me and talking about the difficulties which confront them, including an additional burden of $300, $400 or $500 for sewerage installation. They feel that some further assistance should be provided under this heading. After all, this type of installation becomes a matter of obligation when the main reticulation line Ls brought into a community. Others have made representations to me about the need for assistance to repair their homes. There is nothing unique about this. We have read in the Press in recent weeks of a scheme introduced by the United Kingdom Government under which not only pensioners but other citizens receive assistance to rejuvenate old homes. I believe this is the kind of aid which pensioners in this country should receive. There are other matters such as exceptional dietary circumstances when extra money is needed to meet a diet requirement, or surgical aids. 
We have made special allowances for people who pay rent or board but we have not been prepared to extend this special assistance to those who have to pay off a home with all the attendant expenses, high interest repayments, local government rates, water rates and so on. When a married pensioner loses his or her partner and is left alone in a home the income is reduced to $15.50 per week and that pensioner alone then has to bear the burden of paying off the home as was previously done by the couple. We can readily see the need for special assistance. To me there seems to be a very serious lack of enterprise and imagination on the part of the Minister for Social Services and the Government that he represents. After all, man does not live by bread alone. This Government has for too long suffered from the dollar complex; now it has degenerated to the half-dollar complex outlook. 
We should study the range of services and versatility that operates these things in countries such as the much denigrated United States of America, which can leave us for dead in the sensitivity which it shows in regard to these matters. The Canadian assistance plan was briefly referred to by some of my colleagues. Studies of the Scandinavian legislation would throw light on the kind of things which we desperately need in this country. We continue to wallow slavishly in the status quo which is the legacy of 60 years involve ment in Australian social services,  i  believe that now we have to plan new concepts as we head into the 1970s, as we go on to a new era of problems, and as we come to recognise that there is enlightenment and new attitudes to these matters. 
There are many matters on which pensioners are dependent and which are the subject of divided responsibility. That is to say that they involve very often the services of the Commonwealth, State Services, local government welfare services, and those of private agencies. In 1947 we reached the constitutional dividing line - the parting of the waters - when we had a referendum to determine who would be responsible for certain aspects of social services. The result of that referendum is that the Commonwealth now provides cash benefits in general terms and the States are responsible for services. Nevertheless all kinds of ad hoc and unintegrated innovations have developed since that time. I believe that this is necessary because the States have the responsibility to provide the services and the Commonwealth has the cash or the capacity to get it and we should see a better integration and relationship developed between the Commonwealth and the States and indeed local government as well. The trend in comparable countries is to provide co-ordinated regional services. T have noticed that in New South Wales, for example. 24 regional offices of the Commonwealth Social Services Department are about to be established. But their functions are limited and they operate independently of State social welfare agencies and other groups. So a very unsatisfactory system is being perpetuated. 
We of the Australian Labor Party stand for the Australian assistance plan which was ununciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during the last general election campaign. Why has the Commonwealth Government failed to take the initiative lo provide an overall blueprint for a co-ordinated regional scheme, a scheme that would involve the resources of local government bodies, the States, the Commonwealth and the voluntary organisations? Administration of such a scheme would be assisted by the democratic participation of local regional advisory groups. Of course, these groups would comprise people wilh the appropriate expertise  and  representatives of the public and private services - the components of the co-ordinated services. 
A properly co-ordinated regional system of social services would incorporate a community aid centre. This kind of centre would be in every region. It would be staffed by trained personnel who would counsel, advise and guide people with problems. I do not think anybody is better equipped than are members of this Parliament to know about the complexities of problems and the maze of social service entanglements with which people have to grapple when they encounter difficulties. Then, of course, there ought to be in the regional council of social service structure provision for a contingency welfare fund which would be operated on a regional basis. We cannot legislate for every conceivable human eventuality. Human compassion ought to rise to meet situations as they emerge and governments should be prepared to play their part. But compassion cannot be dispensed from the bureaucratic ivory towers of Canberra. All of us here stand for basic rights and we like to see basic rights written into legislation. We do not want to be in the hands of the bureaucratic, the off-the-cuff decision maker, any more than it is absolutely essential. But after basic rights and other things have been written into legislation, there is a need for government flexibility and versatility which will ensure that hardship and suffering is minimised. 
With every regional council of social services, in which the organisations and the State and Commonwealth services are integrated, with the advisory or administrative group and the contingency welfare fund that could be invoked in times of emergency, there ought to be also a Commonwealth welfare services directory. It should in effect provide an indication of the potential. We should list in that directory all the services that we consider to be necessary and then ensure that they are provided in fact by operating services. We would be taking into account the need for psychiatric facilities, not only in relation to wards in hospitals where psychiatric cases could receive proper care, but also community day centres at which people could attend for discussion, for counselling and for matters of this kind. Proper provision for housekeeping emergency services should also be included in this directory. It should also include transport emergency services and, of course, it should involve the traditional organisations of which we are all aware - Meals on Wheels, domiciliary care, home visiting and things of this kind. 
Our social services are highly centralised in Australia. They are organised with a problem rather than  a  client orientation. Modern welfare theory is based on the belief that problems do not come singly but in clusters. It is not good enough for us to have the capacity to deal with one aspect of a problem while the basic cause is ignored. We often find that in certain situations whole families can be affected. An alcoholic might desert his wife. The children could start wagging it from school and get into trouble with probation officers, education department people and the like and eventually become dropouts. Perhaps they would become involved with the police. So there is a chain of events which takes place. Often in such circumstances  a  family is visited by people from all kinds of agencies. Often we find that as many as a dozen agencies can give assistance. Yet the basic cause of the trouble has not received the attention that it deserves. So I put it to the Minister that on the basis of three very learned papers presented at the Australian Council of Social Services Conference in Canberra in May of this year, at which both the Minister and I were present, there seems to be very considerable scope for a thorough examination of this new theory about social welfare. On this basis we could operate not on a remote, centralised and sometimes bureaucratic basis but on  a  basis of getting down to utilising the resources of the community integrated into community needs. We could provide  a  place for the voluntary agencies and generally uplift the social service techniques of this country to those which are operating successfully in other parts of the world. 
One of the matters discussed at the conference to which I have referred was the need for research into social services. It was contended by  a  number of eminent authorities that the Commonwealth could and should act as  a  clearing house for up to date scientifically based information. Professor R. Brown contended this at the 
Australian Council of Social Services Conference held in Canberra. He said: 
The most important single prerequisite is a centre in the National Government and to some extent in the State governments concerned with gathering, assimilating and preparing the information on which social policy decisions may be based. 
He went on to say: 
 Government welfare committees should bc serviced by high grade units skilled in social analysis. 
Yet, as I understand it, the Government at the present time is without the benefit of that kind of resource, that kind of expertise, which is required to engage in an analysis of social needs. How can we meet the social needs of a community unless our efforts are based on scientific evidence and the type of modern technology which is available through the product of universities and which indeed is in evidence in other parts of the world? Professor Brown also said: 
At present so far as I can see the Commonwealth is pursuing no clearly understandable policy in disbursing money for social purposes to other levels of government and to non-government organisations. 
He contended that we needed a government White Paper on development of local health and welfare services. In short, he is contending that what has been done in Canada under the Canadian Assistance Plan, what was done in legislative form in the United Kingdom as a result of the reports by Selbohm and Maud, should be done in Australia. When it is all said and done, this is a country which once showed initiative in leading the world in relation to social welfare. As has been said, perhaps at cliche level, we have slipped back to where we are one of the also-rans. I put it to the Government that instead of being obsessed by a 50c and $1 complex we ought to be having a look at these very basic and fundamental matters which involve the quality of social services. 
I believe that until the Minister for Social Services, whoever occupies this very important position in our country, comes to recognise that neither the Commonwealth nor the State, nor the local government arm of government, can go it alone on any of these things we will not get anywhere; we will lumber and wallow along with the status quo of the old SOc outlook on social services. Instead of that we ought to recognise that it is only the Commonwealth that has the capacity to show initiative and to establish, by way of conferences with the other two arms of government, the means by which we could cooperate and work together. It is all very well for us in this place to have our attitudes about these matters but if you spend some days attending the conference of the Australian Council of Social Services you will be told privately by people qualified in a professional sense to deal with this matter that they criticise the Government and disparage the old fashioned system that operates. They will steadfastly contend that there should be a Minister for Social Services who has some comprehension of the new techniques that are operating so effeclively in other parts of Australia. 
The complexities of government in Aus tralia and the fact that we are over-governed create a situation that results in a much more unhappy state of affairs in this country than exists in many other parts of the world. Has the Minister not yet come to believe the contentions that he must have heard so many times in the places where earnest volunteers apply themselves to these matters that an inter-relationship should be effected so thai in every region we have not an ad hoc or casually developing system of social services but a planned approach to the matter so that we can go arm in arm with a view to minimising the hardship and suffering that is so evident in many parts of Australia? I believe this is the kind of thing that should be the subject of a special examination. I think the Minister could well identify the areas of expertise which could advise him and which could provide this Parliament with a white paper for discussion. In the long run this might cause us to spend our debating time under the heading of social services on other than an increase in the pension of SOc or SI, depending on whether it is the first, second or third social services measure introduced after an election. These are the matters which condition our approach to social services. We should realise that man does not live by bread alone but needs many other services and the co-operation of all those people in the community and government instrumentalities, at both State and local government level, who are able to assist and co-operate. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  for the unprecedented restraint that he exercised so that I might speak for a few minutes in this debate. He is obviously worried about why he finds it difficult to vote with the Opposition. That is a matter for his own conscience. I think it should be made clear and brought into sharp relief that the issues on which the Parliament is about to be called to vote are very limited and very specific. They concern the minimum rate for the TPI pension. We have been discussing an official request from the Returned Services League that the TPI rate be made equal to the minimum wage which, as my colleague the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  pointed out, is $42 a week. The provisions before the House provide for a TPI rate of $38 a week. Surely this does not present any great problem from the standpoint of honourable members opposite? One wonders what the situation would be like if troops were being sent overseas and the Prime Minister was at the port or railway station, saying: 'Cheerio, Chaps. I just want to give you this final assurance on behalf of the people of Australia. If you get knocked over and you can never work again and can never be an ordinary citizen again you can come back here and we will guarantee to give you an amount which is $4 a week less man the minimum wage.' Not many volunteers would turn up to go overseas and serve the country in that situation. 1 understand the implementation of this scheme would cost $8.5m. Surely that amount would not break the exchequer or bring about the insolvency of the national Government of Australia? 
I would like to talk about a number of matters this afternoon but I know there are difficulties with time because honourable members have to catch aeroplanes. I would like to make some reference toa matter to which I referred during the Budget debate but to which I have as yet received no answer. I want to raise the matter again as I understand the Minister is going to speak. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  talked about the various appeals tribunals and the extent to which the appeals before them are disallowed. I am referring particularly to the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal. 
This Tribunal is not the most benevolent in the world. I understand that out of 2,432 appeals heard during the year it allowed 344. I have the various tribunal reports before me and that is about the average rate of successful appeals. 
I used to think they were quite sycophant. I feel one of the problems in presenting contentious repatriation matters these days is that some of the top brass of the Returned Services League have become subjective and sycophant. I have their annual report in front of me. If I had time I would read out the Commonwealth honours which have been awarded to the top echelon of the RSL which, these days, seems to spend more time in anti-Labor propaganda than in advocacy on behalf of the ex-servicemen of this country. I am not talking about the ex-servicemen at the grass roots level and the RSL sub-branches. To my way of thinking they still make a fair endeavour on behalf of the people they represent. But I am not at all satisfied that the top echelon does not sell out to the Government. If one went through their names, which time will not allow me to do, one would see that the vast predominance of them has been generously endowed with Commonwealth honours. I would hope these people would not be influenced as a result of that. Serving on the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal is the  Chairman, Mr K.  L. Harding, the  Deputy Chairman, Mr N.  C. McGregor and a member,  Mr W.  E. Lambert. I pay tribute to those gentlemen because they are not prepared to be a rubber stamp as the top brass of the RSL seems to be. In the report they stated: 
The Tribunal, therefore, has to spend much time in correcting errors of typing, exclusion or assemblysothattheseotherusersmayhavea reasonably reliable summary. Many errors are quite grotesque and often misleading - if not detected and corrected they could actually prejudice the successful prosecution of an appeal. Quite apart from the additional time required before and during hearings much confusion is caused by advocates and medical advisers being required to work from corrupt copies before the Tribunal can assist at a hearing to set the record straight 
This increasing burden on the Tribunal, if allowed to continue, can only result in a reduction of the number of appeals determined. 
These very strong comments have come from an official tribunal which has the imprimatur of the Repatriation Department and the Minister. In other words, they have dared to say the truth about the position of ex-servicemen who appeal. 
That is what the members of the Tribunal think. That is the important thing, lt is apparent that members of Parliament would not know except when they have experience with exservicemen who make applications for war pensions and who appeal in respect of the determinations made. We often see their dissatisfaction. I am one of those who feel that in many instances ex-servicemen do not get a fair go. My attitude has now been substantiated by this tribunal which is saying that the Repatriation Commission is not providing the information which is necessary and that there are grotesque and misleading mistakes being made in the evidence put before tribunals. If the tribunals have the wrong evidence before them how can they possibly come to a fair and just conclusion? This is the kind of matter which justifies the other aspect of the amendment which has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard). 
The amendment asks for 2 things. Firstly it seeks to lift the rate for totally and permanently incapacitated exservicemen to the minimum wage in the community. Apparently some honourable members opposite find it difficult to approve of this fundamental principle. The other leg of the amendment refers to the fact that the Bill does not provide for the appointment of a joint select committee to completely review the Repatriation Act, its operation and all its provisions, and make appropriate recommendations to the Government. The RSL is of that view and we are arguing it today because of the type of example I have given. If time would permit I could give many examples which would justify the need for a review or inquiry. Who would be afraid of a review or inquiry if there was nothing to hide? My colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  proposed that we should separate pensions from medical treatment. If one looks at the utilisation of repatriation hospitals it can be seen that there is plenty of scope for that. Indeed, it is a much smaller problem if one only has regard to the aspect of pharmaceutical services and medical treatment outside the hospital system. I have no further time in which to elaborate on that but I ask the Minister whether he will treat the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal's comments wilh the respect and consideration that they deserve? It is some weeks since I raised that matter in the Parliament and I ask the Minister whether there has been an inquiry and, if so, to what extent can the ex-servicemen be placated in respect of this tremendously important matter. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Was an application for a travel permit received from  Mr K.  Gardiner who sought to take 700 goats from Elliott, Northern Territory to the Gurindji Aboriginals' camp at Wave Hill. 
Was the application refused; if so, why. 
Is a suitable area of Crown or Common land available in reasonable proximity to Wattie Creek which would be suitable for the grazing of goats; if so, would approval be given for its use. 
Would favourable consideration be given to a request for reacquisition of a suitable area of land at present held by Vesteys Pastoral Company if it were established that a successful goat farm could be successfully conducted by the Gurindji people. 
I ask the Prima Minister: Are Commonwealth Police systematically planted at public rallies and meetings to take photographs and to consolidate secret dossiers on parliamentarians and others opposing the Government's Vietnam policy? Is a Labor senator being subjected to interrogation by Commonwealth Police following a recent address at the Australian National University? Does the Prime Minister regard this practice as politically intimidatory, oppressive and synonymous with the worst features of a police state? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Which universities and university colleges increased fees to take effect in 1970, and what was the increase in each case. 
Which universities and university colleges imposed student quotas and what are the details in each case on (a) total enrolment basis and (b) a faculty basis. 
How' many students have been excluded from each faculty in each university as a result of the application of the quota system. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth' - 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the estimated number of children of pre-school age 
in each State, 
in the Australian Capital Territory, 
in the Northern Territory and 
enrolled in (i) each State, (ii) the Australian Capital Territory and (iii) the Northern Territory. 
What is the per capita expenditure on preschool education in: 
each State, 
the Australian Capital Territory and 
the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Where and in what numbers does this Department employ qualified social workers. 
Is the number adequate; if not in which areas is there a deficiency. 
A short time ago the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  referred lo the asthma treatment with which  Dr James  of Wollongong is associated. I should like to add to his remarks and the indications of concern he expressed about the progress of this particular matter. For some time a large part of the community has been waiting patiently to hear the completed report of the National Health and Medical Research Council on the request from  Dr James  for a proved and successful form of asthma treatment. More than 2,000 sufferers are at present seeking treatment from this elderly doctor who is 88 years of age and whose physical capacities and resources prevent his extending his compassion and skill to those who need them. Australia is said to have some 750,000 asthma sufferers and the number is increasing rapidly. One in every 16 people in Australia is an asthma sufferer, lt is said that we have the second highest incidence per capita of asthma sufferers in the world and the number has doubled over 6 years. There has been a 40 per cent rise in the number of sufferers from 1964 to 1966 and a 40 per cent increase of asthma deaths occurred in 1964, 1965 and 1966. 
As honourable members know, millions of dollars are being expended on drugs - on cortisone, intal and sal butamol, the newest drug - but it is contended that treatment of asthmatics by palliative drugs is neither safe nor effective and it is wrong to perpetuate this treatment without questioning whether it fails to achieve the main purpose of the therapy which, after all, is to cure the condition. I do not think anybody is making claim to curing asthma effectively with the expensive and extensive drug treatment which is being used widely throughout Australia. Meanwhile sufferers who could be cured remain unattended. 
Sister Kenny had to leave Australia with her miracle cure. Tt is doubtful whether  Dr Alexander  James is going to emulate her because of his advanced age. There is a race against time as to whether or not he will be able to impart the very considerable skill that he has acquired before he becomes too old to carry on.  His  system of natural physical methods, involving breathing exercises and mechanical vibratory stimulation, is based on the discovery of asthma cause and in this sense it is unique. It has been interesting to note that the National Health and Medical Research Council has already, at the request of State Ministers for Health, given some consideration to this matter and, in fact, has acknowledged it as 'notably successful'. But that is not good enough.  Dr Alexander  James and the Asthma Action society which supports him are not just anxious to get recognition for the methods from the National. Health and Medical Research Council. They want practical support for the widespread introduction of these methods. 
I have mentioned that 2,000 people are queued up waiting for this assistance. 
Already the doctor's skill has been imparted to other members of the medical profession but now Asthma Action has called for Commonwealth support for an initial clinic to combine the training of medical personnel in the scientific principle and practice of the James system of asthma management. Then it wants to obtain support so that it can go on to the subsequent establishment of district clinics bringing the James treatment within the reach of all asthma sufferers. As one who lives in an area that is in close proximity to Wollongong where  Dr James  practices, I am able to give to the Parliament an account of the earnest support that many asthma sufferers give to this treatment. 1 recall that it was not long ago that the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  stood up in this House and, as a member from the far north of Queensland, took the earliest opportunity to commend the treatment which had brought very great relief to a member of his own family who had been an asthma sufferer for many years. 
I am always surprised that the Government is so inept in matters of this kind. Here again we have the attitude, which has been expressed in a letter from the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  about this particular matter, that there is some kind of constitutional barrier which prevents the Commonwealth from assisting in a matter of this kind. Yet we have seen much greater problems involving health matters assailed by the Commonwealth. We have seen constitutional problems swept aside. I suppose more notable than anything else in this regard was the action taken by the Commonwealth in the late 1940s to institute a campaign against tuberculosis. Although it is true that the States had initial responsibility for this matter, the Commonwealth virtually set out to underwrite the cost of any action taken by State governments in an effort to confront this particular problem. Asthma is not a question that simply concerns the State Minister for Health in New South Wales, or any Minister in any other State. I have mentioned the statistics, which are quite alarmingthat 1 in 16 persons in Australia suffers from asthma and that we are spending a colossal amount of money in  a fruitless and unsuccessful attempt to bring relief to the problems from which these people suffer. 
I am asking whether the Minister will again look at this question, not just from the point of view of giving an imprimatur or some kind of approval from the authority that he administers but rather to contrive the means by which the doctor can be assisted to disseminate an understanding of his techniques. After all, he is 88 years of age. He has not very long to go, regardless of the comparatively good health that he enjoys at present. Many people who have written to me have been very anxious to say that the Government would do a wonderful thing for people who suffer from this distressing condition if it set about providing the means by which  Dr James  could equip other medical personnel throughout Australia with a knowledge of his techniques. I understand that the honourable member for Capricornia, who is a member of the medical profession, has taken the trouble to go to Wollongong. I know that many other doctors who have talked personally to  Dr James  warmly applaud the success of his treatment which is acknowledged by the Government. As a result of this T believe that it is very important that consideration be given to providing the initial clinic and the subsequent clinics which are so necessary. 
There are a number of other matters to which I wish to refer, but I understand that there is some kind of time limitation on speeches. Therefore, I shall refer to only one. It concerns  Dr Kalokerinos  of Collarenebri who, as most honourable members are aware, has devoted himself for some time to the study of the high mortality rate among young Aboriginal children.  Dr Kalokerinos  has established that Aboriginal children suffer from a deficiency of vitamin C, which he treats by prescribing ascorbic acid. There is no necessity for me to go over the statistics which highlight the fact that young Aboriginal children in many parts of Australia have a mortality rate which is some 22 times in excess of that of European children who live in the same environment. So this problem represents a blot on the Australian landscape. 
Our infant mortality rate is not impressive by world standards. It is interesting to note that whereas Sweden has an infant mortality rate of 12.9 per 1,000 live births, Australia has a mortality rate of 18.3 per 1,000 live births. After Sweden come the 
Netherlands, Finland. Norway, Japan. Denmark, Switzerland and Australia. So there seems to be a relatively bad situation for all Australians, but it is many times worse for Aboriginal children, particularly those in the Northern Territory and Queensland. I believe that the research being undertaken by  Dr Kalokerinos  is of such a nature that, having regard to the fact that the problem extends over State borders, the Commonwealth's support is justified. 
I ask the Minister to accelerate the processes which I know are under way in some form or other. 1 think some investigation is being undertaken on the initiative of the Minister for Social Services and MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth).  This investigation is being undertaken in conjunction with the work which is being carried out by the Department of Health, which is well known to all honourable members. But insufficient research is being done. The problem is not being treated with sufficient urgency. In view of the very sorry record of Australia in the treatment of Aboriginal children and in the consideration of health matters affecting Aboriginal people generally, in particular the high mortality rate of young Aboriginal children, I ask that the work which has been carried om by  Dr Kalokerinos  - be has already obtained proven results - be extended so that other people in the medical profession may obtain the knowledge and the techniques which possibly can save the lives of many Aboriginal children. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
asked the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What mining leases have been approved on Aboriginal reserves. 
What provisions designed to advantage the Aboriginal people have been imposed as a condition of mining leases or mining operations. 
asked the following question of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has any request been received from or on behalf of  Dr Kalokerinos  of Collarenebri, New South Wales, for Commonwealth assistance for a research programme into factors contributing to the high infant mortality rate among young Aboriginal children. 
If so, what was the nature of the request. 
How was it determined. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services,  upon  notice: 
In which cities or towns are regional offices of his Department located. 
What is (a) the function of each office and (b) the number of staff employed at each office. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the company, Hovercraft Developments Pty Ltd, is planning to introduce commercial hovercraft services from Sydney Harbour to Pittwater, Mascot Airport via Botany Bay and Wollongong. 
If so. (a) when are the services to  be  introduced,  (b)  at what intervals will the services be conducted and (c) what will be the passenger capacity of the craft and the charges for the journeys. 
Will the company receive any Government concessions or assistance with the purchase of hovercraft, fuel or the provision of wharf facilities. 
Could a Wollongong-Sydney hovercraft service cause an aircraft service between these cities to become uneconomical. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the terms of the plan (known as the French Plan) which was drawn up by a subcommittee of the New South Wales Poultry Advisory Board to rationalise production of eggs so as to protect the equity of the independent egg producer. 
Did the Australian Agricultural Council reject the plan which had been drawn up by the Board and endorsed by egg producer organisations in Australia. 
If so, what was the stated reason for rejecting the plan. 
What efforts are being made by the Government to protect independent egg producers from attempts by large scale milling combines and companies involved in the poultry meat industry to take over the egg industry. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the number and what are the duties of qualified Social Workers employed by his Department? 
Is the number adequate: if not in what areas is there a deficiency? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the (a) name and (b) nationality of each person whose application for a visa to enter Australia has been refused over each of the last 20 years. 
In respect of each case, what was the stated reason for refusing the visa application. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What payment does the Government' intend lo make in lieu of local government rates on Commonwealth owned property. 
asked the Minister for  the Army, upon notice: 
What area of land is utilised by the Army in the Liverpool-Holsworthy manoeuvre area. 
Does the Army have any intention of recommending the relinquishment of the area and its replacement by a suitable area in some other locality. 
Has the attention been drawn to the recommendationscontained in the Sydney Region Outline Plan produced by the State Planning Authority to the effect that an early decision should be made about the future release of this 85 square mile defence area so as to permit development of 2,000 acres of industrial land and accommodation for 250,000 persons. 
If so, has his Department given consideration to these recommendations. 
asked the Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the (a) name, (b) area and (c) estimated Aboriginal population of each Aboriginal reserve in each State and Commonwealth territory. 
Over which reserves have mining or pastoral rights been granted, and to whom have they been granted. 
In respect of which reserves where mining or pastoral rights have been granted are royalties or other considerations to be paid for the benefit of the Aboriginal people, and what are the particulars of these considerations in each case. 
Is ownership of any reserve vested in Aboriginal people; if so, which reserves. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Has any Commonwealth investigation been made into the treatment of asthma being undertaken by  Dr Alexander  James of Wollongong, New South Wales; if so, with what result. 
Can he say whether the treatment used by  Dr James,  consisting of a natural physical system of methods such as breathing exercises and mechanical vibratory stimulation, has achieved a remarkably high incidence of partial relief and complete cure. 
Has his attention been drawn to the stated aims of the Asthma Action Society which seeks to support  Dr James  in the expansion of his work through (a) establishment of a central clinic to combine the training of medical personnel in the James system of asthma management with the treatment of asthmatics by these methods and (b) the subsequent foundation of district asthma clinics using the James system of asthma management in centres throughout Australia. 
If so, what Commonwealth Assistance can be given towards the fulfilment of these aims. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Does the Government have a consistent attitude regarding the extent to which the requirements of local government authorities are met in respect of the provision of car parking facilities for new Commonwealth buildings. 
Where it is not practical to provide the onsite car parking spaces required, does the Commonwealth make any contribution to enable local government authorities to provide off-site parkins facilities. 
I will endeavour to accommodate the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  in his aspiration to have matters of importance discussed on these estimates. I want to talk about the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the need to ensure that this great authority is not made subject to partisan control. I believe that the ABC should not be related to any Party. But to the extent that it is related to government, it should be related to the Parliament of the nation. I think it is very significant that at present it is not the Parliament that chooses the Commissioners; it is the Government. That is to say, at the very source, the notion that the people as a whole through the Parliament have responsibility for this matter is destroyed. The preservation of this notion and this principle is vital if the Australian Broadcasting Commission is to function pluralistically on behalf of the widespread interests and groups in the community. 
There are many ways that the Government and Ministers are able to manifest a political influence over this great instrumentality. Included among these insidious ways are such matters as the control which is exercised over overseas visits by people who are engaged in current affairs programmes. We can easily see that if one wishes to encourage the manifestation of an attitude on the part of Australian viewers the simple thing is to regulate what they are to view. If one does not wish them, for example, to understand the situation in Rhodesia, South Africa or, on the other hand, Communist China, one simple ensures- if, for instance, it is the Government's desire - that ' one does not send a team there so that the members of that team can be in a position to convey an effective understanding of these things. 
The Overseas Visits Committee - the Committee which determines the expenditure in relation to public servants going overseas - is, as I. understand it, in the hands of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  There have been occasions when it has been contended that this prerogative has been exercised in an undesirable way. If the Minister is to say anything further about these matters that are the subject of this estimates debate, I would like to see him give a clear cut and unequivocal statement that this committee is not used for the purpose of partisanship. Better still, I would like him to indicate that he is interested in contriving a means by which this subject can be brought into a more neutral area of control. 
Similarly, the Public Service has an Appointments Committee. This Committee can affect the calibre of person and indeed the type of person who, in terms of attitude, will prevail in this news and information disseminating authority, the ABC. The Appointments Committee of the Public Service is another means which can bc invoked and utilised to control the public expression of this great media. In a number of minor ways, the autonomy of the ABC in my view was expanded in the recent legislation before the House. But the Bill did not incorporate proposals to liberalise or to liberate the ABC from these political influences to which I have referred - this great insidious form of internal censorship which is the product of Government pressures. In view of these recent events and the widespread public disquiet which followed attempts to muzzle current affairs programmes, I believe that a declaration of independence for the ABC should be incorporated in the Broadcasting and Television Act as the main cornerstone of the controlling legislation. 
The recent disclosures that the Minister aspired to slash the Commission's proposed budget by half a million dollars with a specific reduction of $250,000 in current affairs programmes in my view can be regarded only as an attempt to deter the Commission from its public obligation to disseminate news on current affairs as it sees fit. In his statement on 27th May of this year, the Minister gave cause for grave concern, in my view, when he said: 
I have been of the opinion that the ABC's operations in the field of current affairs programmes .'have been characterised by a lack of sufficient care hi the expenditure of public moneys. 
I take the view that the Minister's responsibilities are such that more than innuendo is expected from him in regard to matters of this type. I believe that it is pernicious to vilify without verification. Where specifically is there 'lack of sufficient care' - that was the Minister's term - in the expenditure of public money in the ABC and particularly in regard to current affairs programmes? 
I think that this term 'lack of sufficient care' means disagreement by such members as the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  with the emphasis that comes over the current affairs programmes and which often does not suit on occasions either the political views of the honourable  member or even my own views. But we are not talking about the ABC upholding in a partisan way the views of every political party - whether it be the Government or the Opposition. We are talking about the responsibility of the ABC to disseminate a fair cross section of attitudes in regard to these matters. I ask the Minister: Who precisely has been indicted for dereliction of responsibility? Does he not believe that  it is necessary to justify the comments that  he made?  If  the Minister knows, surely he  will fulfil his own obligations and act  otherwise he should not cast aspersions  over this very important instrumentality. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commis- , sion Staff Association met on this matter on 27th May of this year. I think some 400 personnel were present. They said in a " resolution: 
The ABC staff are concerned that the Government;having apparently lost its battle on the . political front, should not win an undercover victory by gaining, under threat, assurances or compromises from the ABC management. 
It was resolved further: 
If the Government withdraws its directive, assurances be sought from the General Manager that management will defend its current affairs or other officers from unwarranted and inspired, attacks by political or other sources with vested - interests in the manipulation of the mass media. 
Another resolution was: 
Censorship can occur at many levels. Management should affirm its confidence in its staff, should affirm its determination to allow current affairs and other programmes to explore with integrity and objectivity a wide variety of issues free from internal as well as external pressures. 
The way to honour these aspirations is not for Ministers or anyone else in high places in the Government to aspersionise in a general way about 'lack of sufficient care'. If someone is guilty of that misdemeanour, appropriate action should be taken by way of an effective indictment. I believe that a great need exists to proceed towards the democratisation of the ABC. I am talking here about the need to inject elements of democratisation by electing, where possible, a viewers advisory committee of the type that we have in the ACT and other places. Then, I believe that we should have a new style ABC management with the staff given a greater say, involving participative management, so that the latent potential of the staff is tapped. . 
In the very short time that remains, I wish to mention a matter whichI believe will become a topic for very extensive consideration in this Parliament as time goes on. I am surprised that up to this point in time we have had no indication from the Government about the emerging technology in television. I refer to what is known overseas especially and what will be known here as the 'cassette revolution', in which great technological developments will take place. This has been the subject of overseas conferences. 
It is contended that television broadcasting as known today is on the way out. The present collection of small numbers of licensed television channels transmitting programmes to limited areas will become obsolete. Soon a person will be able to buy video cassette playback and record machines with television screens. These will replace television. A person will playback with sight and sound and colour by using his own video cassettes or cartridges. A person will buy or borrow cassettes or cartridges in the same way as he borrows books and records. A person will be able to plug in to probably 30 different inlets so that he can invoke a concert, a feature film, a lecture, a play, an educational programme or, if it is his choice, things of a pornographic nature. These are great developments which will involve the utilisation of our co-axial cable service. I think that it is time that we had some indication of these new technological developments. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have enjoyed the remarks of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  I think it is a tribute to him as a man who is probably in his mid-70s that he is able to speak with such eloquence, indeed with more eloquence than anybody else on the Government side and in such a visionary way. I think it is a tribute to his alertness. lt, is unfortunate that there are too many others dragging the chain about this matter and who lack those visionary qualities. I am pleased that the honourable member has kept up to date with things. I gained the impression today that he had been listening to speeches made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about acceptance of responsibility for urban affairs generally. He knows that whilst on one side of this House, the Government side, there is no preparedness to accept responsibility about these matters there has been on the other side of the House, the side led by the Leader of the Opposition, a clear-cut, unambiguous enunciation of the Australian Labor Party's intention to underwrite local government authorities and State governments in their determination to give people the type of service which the honourable member for Mitchell referred to. 
I am pleased that the honourable member made mention of the artificial shortage of land because this also indicates that he is keeping up with his reading. It was only a matter of weeks ago that my colleague the honourable member for Chiflley  (Mr Armitage)  initiated a debate about this matter. I see the honourable member smiling. I think he has been doing a bit of lifting here, or perhaps the two honourable members are working together as they represent neighbouring electorates. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Chiflley for initiating the consideration of that matter of the artificial shortage of land. The big developers - and I am referring to L. J. Hooker Ltd and Parkes Developments Pty Ltd and people of this kind - are taking up large areas on an option basis and holding them until the price moves. The young people, of course, are the victims. 
The honourable member for Mitchell has made some reference to the need for the State housing authorities to engage in the forward acquisition of land. I commend him for this too. It mst be an embarrassment to him that the Government of which he is a supporter has not shown any interest in this over the years that it has been in office. The honourable member would be as aware as I am of the Sydney Region Outline Plan which is a report by the State Planning Authority of New South Wales made in March 1968. This is a very farseeing report. The Authority has been operating for some time now under the Liberal Government of New South Wales and it has objectively set out to plan the development of Sydney for the future. The Report makes reference to the enormous growth that will take place in various regions of Sydney. 
I want to refer to a part of the Report which has a bearing on my own electorate. The State Planning Authority has, in this Sydney Region Outline Plan, made a very strong recommendation to the Government' that it should move towards the shifting of the defence area which is in the southern part of Sydney and which comprises about 85 square miles of land. The area in question is probably within 20 miles of Sydney. I think that all honourable members know that Sydney's population is expected to rise by close to 3 million in the next 30 years. That is, Sydney will have about 5 million people. I agree with the comments made by the honourable member for Mitchell that there ought to be attempts to decentralise and to provide new housing regions in other parts of Australia. But there is insufficient initiative being given in this. The State Planning Authority says that even if those endeavours were proceeded with the natural growth and expansion of Sydney would necessitate more land being made available. It has strongly advocated in this printed report that 85 square miles of land in close proximity to Sydney should be released for the establishment of a planned community, the kind of planning concept referred to by the honourable member for Mitchell. The Report contends that if this area were released, by the removal of the defence activities to another area, it would result in the housing of no fewer than one quarter of a million people. In addition the report indicates that a large suitable area could be made available for industrial development on a planned industrial garden basis providing job opportunities for 40.000 people. 
There have been recommendations from other quarters as a result of a special committee established by the New South Wales Parliament. It has been recommended that a university should be set up in the southern part of Sydney, and in this area of 85 square miles, if it were acquired for Housing Commission purposes and the other purposes to which I referred, a 200-acre site could be provided for a university and teacher's college facilities which already are necessary in that area and which are bound to become increasingly necessary as time goes by. This proposal has already had the support of local government authorities in that region. The Hurstville. Kogarah, Sutherland and Liverpool Councils and everybody who is close to the State Planning Authority and who knows something about its recommendations realise that here is a chance to break this artificial land shortage and to give the young people of Sydney and of New South Wales opportunities to get land at reasonable prices and opportunities to get Housing Commission homes at reasonable prices. The report was brought down by experts. Not long ago in the Parliament 1 asked the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  who is in charge of Commonwealth property, whether he was aware of the subject matter of this report that the military area of some 85 square miles should be relocated. To everybody's surprise he indicated that he did not know where the land was: He was not even sure that the military area was south of Sydney. What kind of progress will we make when authorities apply themselves to planning considerations that are necessary to obviate and prevent the kind of inadequate development that has been referred to, if Ministers responsible do not even know of the existence of areas which are the subject of important recommendations or even of the existence of these reports? 
The Government stands condemned for its failure to do what the honourable member for Mitchell has been talking about. He made mention of sewage problems, and I do not want to discuss this matter except to say that as a Commonwealth Parliament we should no longer close our eyes to the fact that there are more people without sewerage in every capital city today than was the case 20 years ago. In the great metropolitan area of Sydney some 750,000 people who have the benefit of a water service are not connected to sewerage. The poor old water boards - it does not matter whether it is the board in Sydney or the board in Melbourne or elsewhere - are up to their necks in debt. I know that some 54 per cent of the income of the Sydney Water Board is expended to liquidate previous loans. In the face of this kind of problem it is highly unsatisfactory that the Government should continue with its indifferent attitude. 
We are talking about the allocation of funds for loan housing purposes for the present year. It has' been -mentioned that this is the last year of a 5-year Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The allocation is part of the $823m agreed upon last June at the Australian Loan Council meeting as the total allocation to the States for works and housing. The State Premiers contend, of course, that the amount for housing is clearly inadequate but that it can bc increased only at the expense of their already under-financed works programme. It is confidently predicted that the number of outstanding applications with the various State housing authorities will continue to expand rather than diminish. Figures made available by the Minister, and which appear in Hansard of 12th June 1970, show that in New South Wales there are 28,591 outstanding Housing Commission applications; in Victoria, 14,295; in Queensland, 4,305; in South Australia, 10,000; in Western Australia, 17,228 and in Tasmania, 2,445. That is to say, at June 1970 there were 76,864 outstanding applications with State housing authorities. Of course, that figure does not mean very much. It only indicates the number of applicants for highly essential housing, because so many are discouraged from even putting in an application. In many of the States there is a means test. Time will not permit me to outline the details of the means test but it is a most frugal means test which deters people from making applications to State housing authorities. We have an enormous and increasing number of families waiting long periods for homes. These are the families that are accepted as bona fide applicants and who, because of their financial circumstances, would have difficulty attracting finance to build or purchase from any other source. 
The startling fact is that the number of outstanding applications Ls increasing annually. In the 12 months period to 30th June 1969 the number of outstanding applications rose by 1,699 in New South Wales, 255 in Queensland, 2,600 in South Australia, 1,188 in Western Australia and 106 in Tasmania. In other words, last year there was an increase of 5,848 in the total number of outstanding applications for State housing authority assistance. The net effect is a sharp deterioration rather than the alleviation which is so urgent. On the figures that are available it must be conceded that State housing is being phased out by the Government. I want to substantiate that point. From a peak output of 17,959 houses and flats completed in 1954-55 by State housing authorities there has been a steady drop to an alarmingly low output of 12,305 for the year 1968-69. I know that the Government has never embraced enthusiastically the philosophy of assisted housing. In each successive 5-year agreement following the original agreement, which was the creation of the Chifley Government, there has been a substantial, conceptual degeneration of Commonwealth and State Housing Agreements. There has been a whittling away of such significant aspects as the rental rebate scheme which, I think, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  mentioned earlier and which was designed to vary the degree of rental assistance according to the degree of hardship. That no longer operates under the present agreement. Requirements were imposed by the Commonwealth which diverted money for housing for low income families: 30 per cent of the funds made available was to be diverted to building societies and a further 10 per cent was to provide houses for serving members of the Forces. These matters, in my view, needed attention but they should have been attended to without making inroads into the limited housing opportunities available to low income families. 
What is the final effect of this deliberate and continuing policy of sabotaging and undermining State housing in Australia? The answer is available in stark statistical form which will stand forever as an indictment of this Government for its indifference to the housing needs of the less privileged people in Australia. Houses completed by State housing authorities are now a smaller part of Australia's total housing output then ever before. In 1949-50 State authorities provided 17.6 per cent of all houses completed in Australia. In successive years the percentages were 18.1; 17.5; 20.5; 22.3 and 22. In 1955-56 the percentage was 20.4, but then the slide commenced and it has declined steadily. In 1969 it reached the lowest ever rate of 9.7 per cent. That is, from a peak of 22.3 per cent in 1953-54 State housing completions have fallen, as a proportion of total Australian housing completions, to 9.7 per cent 
This Government's policy of curtailing effective federal aid for housing is against the trend in other countries. I am afraid that I will not have much time to refer to this aspect but I would mention a fact which is reported in the United States News &amp; World Report' of 15th June 1970. The publication states: 
Today, 1 in 47 Americans lives in a dwelling subsidised by federal, State or local government. 
In 8 years, under targets adopted by Congress, more than 24 million Americans will live in subsidised units - about one-ninth of the total US population projected for 1978. 
So whilst there is in Australia a diminution of our involvement in State housing - it is on the skids and going down as fast as can be - we find that in other comparable countries such as the United States which I have just mentioned, but there are others which I could mention if more time were available, housing is being considered more and more in the welfare context and greater assistance is being given to people to overcome the competitive situation regarding the availability of finance. 
The State Premiers have asked for a number of matters to be considered in the formulation of the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. The State Housing Ministers met in Brisbane in July 1968 and carried 5 resolutions. They want more aid to be given for low rental housing for aged persons. They want provisions similar to those provided under the Aged Persons Homes Act. They want the State, governments to be assisted in this field on a $2 for $1 subsidy basis. Instead, the Commonwealth's answer was to offer the States $25m over 5 years. That was to cover all the States. Of course, in the face of the demand for aged persons housing, this amount will be grossly inadequate. 
Then the State Housing Mininster. proposed that persons in Housing Commission homes should receive assistance under the homes savings grant scheme. At the moment if persons expend their finance on the acquisition of a home from a State housing authority they do not receive any benefit under the provisions of the Homes Savings Grant Act. The State Housing Ministers also made strong representations about the need to eliminate the provisions which divert some of the money provided under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement to the provision of houses for members of the defence forces. Then more importantly, they asked for assistance to be given for urban development. They said that urgent assistance is required on a national level for what they regard as a very significant matter - the provision of proper planning facilities and of aid to urban affairs generally. 
We have come to the parting of the waters. We are in the process of implementing a new 5-year Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I hope that some of the concepts to which reference has been made this afternoon, and on many occasions by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in enunciating Labor's policy will be incorporated in the Agreement which will have, as its philosophical basis, care and compassion for the people in need in this country who are unable to meet the demands of the money sharks who are allowed to prevail under this Government. In this way housing will be made available under decent conditions for all sections of our community, whether they be young married couples, aged persons or anybody else. 
In the short time that a member has to debate these Estimates it would be presumptuous for him to think that he could alter the course of the nation or engage in highly political matters. In any event we are discussing the estimates for the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Services and I believe we should take this opportunity to talk about matters that sometimes may be of a nonpartisan and preferably an objective nature. However, I believe that the social service legislation of this country has just happened over the years it has evolved. It probably would have happened no matter who governed Australia but it would have happened. I hope, to a lesser extent if my Party had governed. Nevertheless this is a fair kind of assessment. We are moving into dramatic changes in the social service field. There has been political expediency along the way. Too often ad hoc commitments have been made by party leaders, probably leaders of all kinds of parties. These off the cuff decisions have been made when it has been felt necessary to gain some political advantage at election time. 
Our social service system is oriented to cash benefits. I believe we have a dollar complex. Indeed, recently we have had a half dollar complex. But there has been a recognition by both sides of politics in Australia that man does not live by bread alone and that there are finer things and other forms of social services that should be considered. Probably the classical example of this is the aged persons Homes Act which is not based merely on giving people money. We are, of course, subjected to a constitutional dilemma in Australia. Some years ago a referendum was held and the effect of that determination was that the Commonwealth was left with the prerogative of providing cast benefits alone. Conceptually we should think of social services in terms not of what one is given that counts but of what one finishes up with. This is the kind of orientation that I should like to see with our social services. 
I want to speak, for a minute or two. about the Aged Persons Homes Act. When we are speaking of social services, often we do not recognise that we are not talking merely of statistics and figures but about people and their hopes, aspirations and desire to have security and dignity in their advancing years. After all, if a person has worked a long life as a boilermaker in Sydney or as a farmer at Wyalong we ought to concede to him the dignity that he has acquired. Too often this is not the. end result of our social service system, lt is not just a matter of sustenance; it a matter of people feeling that they have a right to live and a purpose for which to live. We should help people to their independence and when we think of aged people we should be helping them to realise the great potential that they have - not the potential in terms of dynamic achievements in the contemporary sense of their going out to forge a new enterprise, to start a new factory or a new farm but the potential in terms of the product of their great experience. They should be encouraged to give of their wisdom and of the benefits that they have derived from a family involvement and from all the lessons of life. To realise these things is the hope of each one of us. 
We need to overhaul our Social Services Act. It should be subjected to something like a royal commission. I do not know the answer, but the Act should go into the melting pot to come out of the crucible fortified and representing what Australian people really require. Whether we are Liberal or Labor. I do not believe that we are satisfied with what we have at the present time or, conceptually, that we are satisfied with what either of the major political parties in Australia aspires to reach. I believe that there is great technology in social work. A great revolution has taken place in social work. We are behind in these matters in a relative sense, so far as world endeavour is concerned, and we ought to seek to get the best of men's experience in this field. 1 have been concerned to learn that there are so few professional people, such as social workers and the like, engaged in the departments that are sensitised to human relations. I believe that there are 50 or 80  -  I cannot remember the number, but it does not matter - social workers employed in the Department of Social Services. That number is insufficient. There are some social workers employed in the Department of Immigration and in the Department of Labour and National Service. We have not done enough to adapt to the technologies that are available. 
There is a general tendency for us to be case oriented rather than client oriented. If a person has a problem, he goes to the Commonwealth Department of Social Services and the officers there can do certain things. But they are limited by the Constitution in what they would like to do and what they know they ought lo do. So it does not go any further than that. Sometimes^ case is hawked around, in my own personal experience to as many as 24 different agencies of a public and benevolent nature, and still the basic cause of the problem is not identified or even resolved. I think that we have to get a merging of the various areas of involvement - State government, local government, benevolent organisation and Federal Government - into a regional social services concept. 
I did not intend to speak for loo long about that matter. As I have only about 2 minutes left, 1 should like to refer to the Aged Persons Homes Act, which I know is near and dear to the heart of the Minister. He and I have shared platforms, which we both have enjoyed. ] personally subscribe to the Aged Persons Homes Act and the principle of it. I disagree with some of my colleagues who believe, for example, that the benefits of the Aged Persons Homes Act should not be made available to people who have some money. Very often the benefit derived by people under the Act is that they have the opportunity to live in a convivial and appropriate environment with people of their own age. I believe that that kind of opportunity ought to be made available to people, regardless of financial considerations. Sometimes wealthy people can benefit from this environment. They have a need for company. 
I commend in general terms the Aged Persons Homes Act which is a product of this Government. That is not to say that it does not need some overhaul or examination or improvement: I think it does. That is the matter to which T want to refer, although I will not have the opportunity to do it in detail. But I am very concerned to see the sort of inexperience that is displayed by the very good people who run these aged persons homes around the countryside. I have one in my own electorate, and I will give an example of the kind of thing that happens. Recently a circular has been distributed - and this is not unique by any means - which declares that after people have paid $2,000 or $3,000, which can be very important to these people and which attracts a subsidy of $2 for $ 1 , they have no right of tenancy. The circular states that no rights of tenancy are created by residents in the particular village or aged persons home. I have seen this kind of thing create great anxieties. 
I think that the opposite kind of emphasis is required. If wc are to have regard to the dignity of these people and to the importance of their contribution, we ought to put this kind of thing into reverse. We ought to be telling them that they have full rights of tenancy unless they become unsuitable as tenants; unless their behaviour or health makes them incompatible with the best interests of the other people who live in the aged persons home or village. I will not have time to elaborate on this matter as I had hoped to tlo. I believe that these things have happened because of the amateurish nature of some of the people who run these homes - well intentioned though they might be. They do a wonderful job, but there ought to be a set of rules, not to provide an institutional kind of background but at least to ensure that reasonable things are done to protect the dignity of the people in the homes. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's lime has expired. 
The proceedings of the Committee are not being broadcast, and I do not want to set out with any fiery speech making tonight. 1 am grateful that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is here. 1 think that he is probably among the most receptive of Ministers and, having regard to the speeches he made before he became Minister for Social Services, and indeed before he became the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, I believe he has good aspirations. T would like to spend a few minutes in backing him up on the declarations of intent that he made before he became a Minister. 
As I said, 1 am not here for the purpose of political aggrandisement. I am here to say a few words about some matters which I believe are in need of careful examination. I am impressed with the comments of my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who is one of the Opposition leaders in social service matters. He referred to the Pensioners Little Budget 
Campaign, lt is a good thing in this country that we can get things like little Budget campaigns from ordinary people from Brunswick Street, somewhere. There is a sense of democratising about this. We still have not lost the idea that ordinary people can emerge with a campaign and a crusade which will be heralded in this Parliament by an effective  speaker  such as the honourable member for Grayndler. These campaigns have enunciated some very important things. They have first of all emphasised the inadequacy of the pension. Quite frankly, if 1 were the Minister for Social Services I would not be over-interested in giving to people who did not need pensions or extra money that extra money until the base rate had been increased for people who had very little. I think this all revolves about our sense of priorities. 
There has been the contention by this Pensioners Little Budget Campaign, commendably in my view, that there should be a full scale inquiry into all aspects of postretirement income provisions. 1 think there is so much scope for contributory superannuation schemes, to which my Party is committed, that it is time we ali became more realistic about these things. We have been silent on the means test through the course of this debate and silent on the need for a national superannuation scheme. We are talking in a debate that has a background of announcements that the cost of living has gone up by 50c a week. That is the extent of the increase for pensioners in the last Budget. The cost of living has gone up over a short period of 8, 9 or 12 weeks. I do not know what the exact period is, but it would not matter what it was. The cost of living has gone up substantially. Of course all of us here must readily concede that the pensioners should not be left behind in this rat race. We should be able to contrive a scheme which relates pensions to something such as average male earnings, the basic wage or whatever yardstick is operating these days. I believe that there should be an advisory council of experts, the technologists about whom I talked earlier, people who have graduated from universities and people from trade unions who are oriented to these problems to give some background to the Minister, whether he be a Liberal or Labor Minister, because nobody is terribly satisfied with what is happening at the present time. 
I started a short time ago to talk about aged persons homes and some of the highly beneficial aspects of them. I want to make some expressions of concern, as one who upholds the Aged Persons Homes Act, about some of the more deleterious developments which are emerging in this very complex field. When things become substantial, large scale and complex we can expect problems to arise. One of the aged persons homes with which I have an association and for which I have a very high respect, says this in its manifesto: 
If you have attained latter years of life and would like to spend them in an elderly people's community where you are able to come and go as you please, have relations and friends visit you at any time, pursue your interests with others, form new friendships, forget the anxiety and stress of everyday life, enjoy privacy, peace, security and loving care, then the accommodation of ... is available to you. 
That pretty largely explains what the place is all about. Elderly people who come into the establishments such as the one to which I have just referred do not come in free of charge. They contribute, sometimes more than they can afford. Sometimes they borrow from friends and relations to obtain the benefits outlined in this prospectus When they get to the establishment, having paid their $1,500 or $3,500- that is the way these, places are set up now; people pay an entry donation or a foundation contribution which attracts a $2 for $1 subsidy - they find that things are not quite as good as they expected them to be. This happens even in the most benevolently run places, those establishments run by people with very good intentions. 
Apart from the capital cost involved in entering one of these establishments, the people entering them are not free from charges. They have to pay maintenance fees which, in regard to the home to which I have referred, range from $2.25 a week for studio accommodation to $4.50 a week. When the people get to these places they are subjected to a change of emphasis and different conditions from those which were described in order to attract them and recruit them to these places. A short time ago, 150 tenants of an aged persons home who were filled with anxiety called me down and said: 'Help us. We are really agitated about a circular that has gone out in this establishment.' It was a very fine establishment which I uphold with great enthusiasm. 1 will read a couple of the regulations that were put out in the circular. One stated: 
No rights of tenancy are created by residence in . . .  lt then named the aged persons home. It seems to me that this is an unnecessary and negative thing to do. The alternative, the antithesis, would be to say: 'Every right of tenancy is created unless your state of health or your behaviour ceases to be compatible with the best interests of people who live here.' Honourable members would be staggered to see how the sense of security of these aged people was undermined as a result of this circular. Other things contained in it are disturbing. For instance, another regulation states: 
Any resident given notice to vacate his or her accommodation and leave the village must do so within  14  days of such notice being given. The village management reserves the right to declare any cottage, unit or room vacant at any time without assigning a reason therefor. 
I am talking about our parents, our fathers-in-law or mothers-in-law, about what we might become and what many of our constituents are, and about the kind of situation they may be in shortly, it should be the enduring and consistent cause and endeavour of people who run these places to be more sensitive about the way they put things, having regard to the dignity that should be characteristically recognised in old age. 1 believe that it is necessary, because of the lack of expertise that often prevails in the management of these places, for some sort of guiding rules to be provided. I have been astounded to see the application forms which operate in regard to some of these places. One of them, for example, declares that the tenants of a certain establishment have limited rights. Often there is only one establishment in an area and it squeezes out others which are sought to be established by other benevolent or church organisations. The form to which T refer declares that if a person goes into this establishment he has no right to have any alcoholic liquor, he has no right to engage in any gambling and he has no right to smoke on the premises. 
I think that a person in the full blossom of life, the maturity of old age, should be entitled to exercise his own discretion about these things at 60 or 70 years of age, as I do at 46 years of age. I am very concerned about the circumscribing, the restriction, of these people under the auspices of the aged persons homes scheme, which after all is subsidised by the Australian taxpayer on a $2 for $1 basis. There are some wonderful people running this wonderful concept, the aged persons homes scheme. They need the benefit of some rules from the Commonwealth. 
The House is debating the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1970. 1 am not quite the sixth successive Labor  speaker  in this debate, but six Labor speakers have shown interest in this debate about the problems of the Australian Aboriginal people. It is true, as the preceding  speaker,  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  said, that this Bill involves an expenditure of $7m. Of that amount, $4. 8m is provided for housing. The way to regard this is that $2.2m is left for expenditure throughout the 6 States for all the other purposes under the headings of welfare and difficulties. 
I suppose that anyone with the slightest knowledge of the tremendous range of difficulties that prevail in this field would concede readily that this amount is grossly inadequate, lt has been pointed out by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and other speakers who preceded me that under many headings and many areas of problem there will be a more serious situation after this money has been spent than before it was expended. After all, the amount that is being allocated for housing is not that great when we consider it in terms of need. This is the point that the honourable member for Brisbane made: There will be more Aboriginal people needing housing when we have spent this money than there were before we commenced to spend it. If 400 homes at a cost of $10,000 each are built and if we take into account the cost of land and PC items, we have a total of $4.8m approximately. We need for Aboriginal people a great many more houses than 400. Do not let us get too carried away with the benevolence of the Government about this matter. 
In the referendum on 27th May 1967, the Australian people gave a resounding imprimatur to the Commonwealth to attend to the long neglected problems concerning Australia's Aboriginal people. This was done by removing the discriminatory provision from section 51 of the Commonwealth Constitution to enable Aboriginal people to be counted in the census and, more importantly, so that the Commonwealth could make laws for Aboriginals. For that matter, the Commonwealth has enjoyed for many years the prerogative in this respect regarding Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory. But, notwithstanding its undoubted authority and the magnitude of the problem concerning Aboriginals Commonwealth indifference has put Australia on trial in the eyes of the world. 
It so happens that this week we Wil be celebrating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. We will do so officially on Saturday next, 24th October. We have had a quarter of a century of United Nations activities. I suppose that there are many people in Australia who are concerned that Australia has been indicted in the United Nations in recent weeks by Aboriginal people. In blatant breach of the United Nations declaration and of the International Labour Organisation conventions, the indigenous people of this country have been deprived of their land and any administrative rights over their reserves. It would have been a very significant event during this twenty-fifth anniversary period if the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  and if the Government had used some imagination. If they have no humanitarian motivation about this matter, they could have thought of it from the standpoint of the favourable public response to the announce.ent of a symbolic gesture and had said, for example: 'Yes, we will return to the Gurindji people some of their land, that is, some of the land that Vesteys has taken away from them'. Why do we lack this kind of imagination? Why did we miss this splendid opportunity when we have denied so much to these people about whom we all speak so proudly. I have had a note passed to me about the wonderful achievements of Eric Simms yesterday in the World Cup series. We have heard of Namatjira and many other famous Australian Aboriginals. But when it comes to an opportunity to do something practical we find that this Government is dragging the chain, very very badly. 
Not very long ago, the State Ministers who are concerned with Aboriginal affairs met. In fact, it was in March of this year. They outlined a number of things for which they need finance. They called for the repeal of what they said was apparently discriminatory legislation. These are not Labor Ministers. These are the Liberal Ministers of the States who prevailed at March of this year. They contended that there was adverse discriminatory legislation concerning Aboriginals and this is what the amendment moved by the Opposition deals with. That is why we expect that some people of conscience from the other side of the House who have been disinterested enough not to join in this debate may be tempted to come over here and to vote with us to uphold the contentions of their own Liberal State Ministers so that this discriminatory legislation might be got rid of. The Liberal Ministers asked for it and we are moving to that effect tonight. We are giving honourable members opposite a chance to fulfil the aspirations of Liberal State Ministers. 
The State Ministers asked also for further workshops. Apparently this is the technique by which Aboriginal leadership is encouraged. Apparently the State Ministers felt that insufficient funds were being made available or expended in this area. They contended that substantial expansion was needed in present housing and flat construction rates to meet the housing requirements of Aboriginals. At least this Bill contains some gesture in that direction. The State Ministers referred to education. They said that Aboriginal people were permanently handicapped by lack of opportunity in the pre-school ages. The honourable member for Brisbane, in moving his amendment, has emphasised that particular aspect as well, to fulfil the desires of the Liberal State Ministers. 
They mentioned the difficulties which Aboriginal people were experiencing in obtaining employment. They said that Aboriginal people were hindered because of lack of accommodation and that urban hostels were needed. I readily concede thai I have been involved personally in a matter in which the Minister has taken a personal interest for the provision of funds for Aboriginal hostel accommodation. But let us all be very frank: This is insufficient and so much more needs to be done so that young boys and girls with potential who reside in areas where no job opportunities are available can be given the chance to come down to places where their secondary, technical and tertiary education needs can be accommodated. These are matters which give us concern and which cause us to speak fervently about the indigenous people of this land. 
For many people, the 'lucky country' is a pious platitude. For the original Australians, luck ran out when Captain Cook rounded Cape Solander and entered Botany Bay 200 years ago. The Institute of Public Affairs recently said: 
The poverty and ill health of too many Aboriginals is a blot on Australian society. 
In Central Australia, the registered infant mortality rate is 21 for 100 live births. This rate is among the highest in the world. The mortality rate is 20 times higher than the rate for comparable European populations. One in every 6 Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory dies before it reaches the age of 4 years. The incidence of leprosy, yaws, tuberculosis, hookworm and scurvy is high. It has been contended that Aboriginal children lack vitamin C. My colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has referred to the dedicated work undertaken by  Dr Kalokerinos  of Collarenabri in his identification of the vitamin C deficiencies and of the need to meet this with particular treatment involving ascorbic acid. Yet, there has been some reluctance, some pettifogging, in the approach on the part of the Government to this matter. The Government does not realise that the Collarenabri cemetery is dotted with little white crosses to which Aboriginal mothers go every weekend in mourning for young children who need not have died if there had been elements of compassion in this country over the last 200 years. Surely the time has come for us to realise that something has to be done in this regard. 
We think of the discrimination that prevails in the Australian countryside. Many Aboriginal communities are denied the benefits of any communications at all. Some lack full time medical services. Most of these communities are without adequate expenditure on schools. Certainly there is nothing in the nature of sewerage and garbage services, nothing like electricity or gas, and nothing like running water. No thought is ever given to anything aesthetic such as a park, footpaths, roads, kerbing and guttering, and of course inadequate housing is the order of the day. We are told that 20,000 Aboriginal families need decent housing. In that context we can see that we are still just tinkering with this mammoth problem. 
The area north of a line from Cairns to Carnarvon totals 500,000 square miles in which 50 per cent of the population are Aboriginals. These are the people who do not own land. While mining rights have transcended human rights we are extracting mineral resources and disregarding the human resources that are available. At Yirrkala the sacred grounds which I visited with my colleagues quite recently  have been vandalised in the name of progress and vested interests as though we have no concern for the Aboriginal people and no pride in our own national history. At Weipa 140 square miles of land has been removed from the Aboriginal reserve for Comalco Industries. We also visited quite recently the Nabalco enterprise at Gove. I can recall that  Dr Coombes  who heads the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs, expressed his concern that that company was going ahead with its $303 m project without the Aboriginal people being consulted in any shape or form. 
We are told that over the years the Northern Territory Administration has spent $50m in piecemeal programmes which have failed to produce any significant groups of indigenes which are selfsustaining economic units. No social action groups or political organisations are permitted in this part of Australia. How can we help this self-motivating, self-generating programme about which some of my colleagues have spoken and in which Aboriginals can be involved in democratic processes in efforts to advance their own affairs? The Northern Territory work force has multiplied by 400 per cent since the Second World War but Aboriginal employment has fallen. Sister Keller, M.B.E., in commenting on Aboriginal employment said: 
Men once proud - now sit idle or drag rakes over yards which do not need raking because it was said they could not be given food without earning it. 
So we undermine whatever self-respect these proud people ever had. 
I understand that if I curtail my remarks one of my colleagues will have the oppor tunity of entering this debate. I would now like to say a few words about land rights. In 1834  Sir Thomas  Buxton,  chairman  of the Aborigines Committee of the British House of Commons said: 
In order to do justice we must admit first that the natives have the right to their own lands. 
In 1963, 129 years later, a select committee that went to Yirrkala had this to say: 
Your Committee believes that a direct monetary compensation should be paid for any loss of traditional occupancy, even though these rights are not legally expressed. 
Then in 1967 a committee of the Northern Territory Legislative Council made similar comments indicating that in its view these Aboriginal people have a right to the land which, from time immemorial, they have considered to be theirs. The land rights claim is specific. It is not characterised by ambiguities. It does not cover everyone's land; It does not aspire to take in Parliament House, Martin Place or the Melbourne Cricket Ground. It has a relationship to the sacred grounds and the traditionally used and occupied grounds such as the grounds which are subject to claims by the people at Wattie Creek and Wave Hill. 
I want to conclude my remarks by saying that there is discriminatory legislation in this country. I could mention quite a long list but I will refer only to some of the legislation. There is the Migration Act 1958-1968; the Navigation Act 1912-1968; in Queensland the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders' Affairs Acts 1965-67; the Vagrants, Gaming and Others Offences Acts 1931-1967; in Western Australia the Licensing Act 1911-1968; the Native Welfare Act 1963; the Native (Citizenship Rights) Act 1944-1964. They are further indications of the fact that we have allowed the Aboriginal people to be treated in an off-handed and indifferent way which has undermined their pride. I believe that in consideration of these matters to which I have referred and others referred to by my colleagues, such as the deficiencies in educational opportunities and the shortcomings as far as health and housing are concerned, it is not good enough to make this limited amount of money available. We should support the. amendment moved by the Opposition in order that we can advance the Aboriginal people in a way which I believe is the aspiration of every Australian. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In which members' electorate offices has the Commonwealth provided (a) air-conditioning units and (b) refrigerators. 
What area, in square feet, is regarded as adequate for a member's electorate office. 
Where an area greater than this figure has been allocated to members, what was the total area allotted in each case. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth. 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Are patients hospitalised in Wards 22, 23 and 24 at Concord Repatriation Hospital required to engage in compulsory occupational therapy assembling nuts and bolts for Nock and Kirby Ltd and folding serviettes for Qantas. 
If so, is participation in the compulsory employment essential for the well-being of each patient. 
On what terms and conditions is this work undertaken. 
Is work undertaken at Concord Repatriation Hospital for other companies; if so, which companies and what is the type of work involved. 
Is similar work performed at other Repatriation Hospitals throughout Australia; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Has the Army established a secret mock-up Vietnamese village in a sub-tropical rain forest south of Bulli Pass comprising houses built of thatched palm leaves, a network of tunnels and a maze of trip wires extending over a wide area of bush land. 
In whom is ownership and control of the land vested. 
Has authority for use of the land been granted. 
Does the Military activity conducted in this area constituted a hazard to children and bushwalkers. 
What accidents have occurred in the area to either military personnel or civilians. 
Is this area still being used for training purposes; if so, what efforts are being made to protect plant and animal life. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What taxation concessions are extended to ambulance services. 
Are ambulance services subject to (a) payroll tax, (b) sales tax on the purchase of vehicles and (c) petrol tax. 
Are taxpayers contributions to ambulance funds tax deductible. 
In view of the financial difficulties being experienced by ambulance services, will consideration be given to providing relief from tax impositions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When did the Government enter into the New South Wales Coal Loading Works Agreement. 
What were the terms and conditions of the Agreement with respect to (a) the purpose of the loan, (b) the amount of the loan and (c) the terms of the loan repayments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is  it intended to change the personal licensing system applying to 5 staff categories known as Licensed Aircraft Maintenance Engineers' now provided for by the aircraft Navigation Orders and Regulations: If so, what is the nature of the proposed changes. 
Have efforts been made to ascertain the views of the Radio Institute of Australia and the Licensed Aircraft Engineering Association with respect to the proposed changes: If so, wilh what result. 
ls it likely that replacement of present L.A.M.E. licensing arrangements with a system of organisational licensing' to be undertaken by airline companies and equipment contracting companies would reduce the present high standard of licensed aircraft maintenance engineers and provoke staff dissatisfaction. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens  of  Mew South Wales respectfully showeth. 
That due to higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The Average Weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our Citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has moved an amendment to the recommendations of the report of the Public Works Committee. It is true, as the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has pointed out, that the Committee regarded its responsibilities in this matter with the utmost seriousness. Evidence was taken from people from Lara and Little River which are the communities affected by this report. The Parliament should be made aware that the Committee took the trouble to go to the area and undertake inspections at the time when aircraft were engaging in training operations. Subsequently evidence was taken from representatives of the Geelong High School, from the local council, from the local State member of Parliament and from a number of private citizens. There is no ambiguity on my part as to what should happen on this matter. I believe that to some considerable degree we are on the hours of a dilemma. What has happened in this matter is not exceptional or unusual. Far too often we are stuck with commitments. I predict that tomorrow when another report comes down we will find similar attitudes expressed in this place because the Committee concerned will have been operating within the strictures of governmental or Prime Ministerial commitment. However, in the matter we are discussing the fact is that all of us would like to hope that government action was of such a nature that Australia would never be in a position of not being able to accommodate Boeing 747 aircraft. We would like to feel that Australia will get into the jet age and not be disadvantaged in any way. 
What do conscientious members of a committee such as the Public Works Committee do in a situation like this? My attitude is that there has been a gross indifference to and betrayal of public interest so far as this matter is concerned. This is simply a perpetuation of the kind of matter about which there was considerable discussion this morning when we debated the report of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. In other words, the problems that we are currently experiencing at major airports all around Australia which are the subject of great concern and anxiety on the part of many communities are now to be transplanted in greater measure than has been the case up to date into communities around Avalon. The report of the Public Works Committee on Avalon Airport indicates sufficiently that members of the Committee are gravely concerned about some matters. The transcript of evidence covers probably 300 or 400 pages. If honourable members read this report they will realise that almost everyone who gave evidence held similar points of view.  Mr J.  J. Doyle, the State member for the area, in effect said that his electorate was becoming neurotic. He said that many problems were being experienced by the residents of the Little River district due to the noise of low flying aircraft on training flights from Avalon. In his evidence to the Committee  Mr Doyle  said: 
The form of aircraft noise in the case of this township is the roar of the planes' engines actually in flight and the vibration caused by their constant and very low passage overhead. The effects are both general and particular, depending upon the persons concerned and the nature of their work and their age and physical condition. In general, the noise and vibration cause anxiety, irritation and a condition which, for the want of a better term, could be characterised as 'jet jitters'. 
This matter is beyond party politics. The gentleman to whom I have referred is a local State member and is not a member of my Party. I think it is important for us to recognise that this matter transcends the boundaries of political affiliation. 
I was interested, as we all ought to be, in the views of the local government authority in this area. As one who has come from local government and had experience in this field I could not help but be impressed by the evidence given by Councillor M. W. Haines from the Shire of Corio. He told us' that the Council unanimously opposed the extensions that are the subject of this report. In his evidence Councillor Haines said: 
The Council recommends that all training carried out at Avalon should be transferred to a locality away from the urban area because of the nuisance caused to the people who reside in close proximity to the airfield. 
If the honourable member wants to argue with the local government authority be can do so, but I believe if anyone is capable of speaking effectively on behalf- 
1 shall seek leave if you so wish, to have the councillor's evidence incorporated in Hansard. If the honourable member wants the evidence in its entirety I will seek this course. Evidence was given along the lines at a public meeting conducted at Lara. Honourable members have heard the point of view of the local State member; they have heard the point of view of the neighbouring Federal member, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who spoke a short time ago. Doubtless honourable members will hear from the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in the near future. The councillor, the Shire, the State member, the Federal members and the public at their meeting indicated that they were very concerned. Their meeting discussed the effects of aircraft noise on education in the district, the fact that school lessons came to a complete stop, the fact that health hazards which created neuroses existed, and that adverse effects were caused to television reception, radio reception and the use of telephones. 1 was concerned to learn that the planning authorities seemed to be fairly unmindful of the future effects. An application has been made for the release of a further 160 acres in the Leura area and that the Town and Country Planning Board already has considered this proposal. We are told that already 400 residential lots have been zoned for development. One wonders what the purpose of the West Gate Bridge is. Is it not designed to open that area up for future residential development, well, just what is the purpose of this mammoth expenditure? It is quite clear that, with the increased usage of Avalon - and the effects of the present usage of Avalon are bad enough - the City of Geelong will be affected seriously. 
I think that we are in a bit of a difficult situation today. I know that it is the feeling of many members on both sides of the House that the expansion of Avalon constitutes bad and undesirable development. I have a personal problem in the matter because 1 am unable to understand what would happen if this proposal was referred back to the Public Works Committee. This has been foisted upon us through the inadequacy of our Standing Orders. I would have liked to have seen something added to the report of the Committee. That is to say, I would liked to have seen this Parliament expressing a positive view on its own account. As honourable members are aware, we are unable to take such a course under the Standing Orders. All that it is possible to do is to refer the matter back to the Committee. When it is referred again to the Committee, the dilemma that faces us is: What can the Committee do if, in fact, it does not have a reference upon which to formulate a recommendation? That is our problem. Because I feel that we will at least have an expression of the Parliament by sending this reference back to the Committee - even if the Committee says: 'Look, we have no reference upon which lo make a recommendation' - we will have achieved something. We will have had a- clear voice from this Parliament as to the undesirability of this proposed development. 
I say in conclusion that the time has come in my view when the departments which are responsible for developmental proposals of this kind should put more into planning and more into consideration of the public interest. Far too often we are confronted with a situation where a project is almost a fait accompli, where it is intended to conduct investigations after the work is undertaken or during the course of its construction. This is not good enough for me. I seek to be co-operative on this Committee, as do my colleagues. But I hope to see much better preparation. I am certainly not obsessed with the idea of sheeting this home to the Department of Civil Aviation. My experience with the officers of this Department is that they are tremendously conscientious and wonderfully informed about their obligations and responsibilities. If there is anyone to take the blame it has to be the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is sitting at the table, and it has to be this Government which has a long record of indifferance about the planning of airport facilities in Australia. I hope that the amendment is carried because I believe it will represent a landmark in regard to these things in respect of our country's approach to the welfare of people who live or who will live in proximity to large airports. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
At which universities and other tertiary institutions are (a) career courses and (b) postgraduate courses conducted in social work. 
From which universities and other teritiary institutions are social work graduates (a) ableto proceed to post-graduate studies (b) accepted for employment as social workers in the Commonwealth Public Service and (c) accepted for Commonwealth cadetships. 
Which social work courses conducted at institutes of technology or colleges of advanced education are currently being reviewed for the purpose of professional acceptability, and when is it expected the reviews will be completed. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What (a) books and (b) films have been the subject of Commonwealth censorship over each of the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
When will Wollongong University College be granted autonomy. 
What funds will have been made available for expenditure on capital works prior to the date autonomy will take effect. 
Does the College have any unfilled staff places; if so, what are the details. 
Does the College have residential facilities; if so, what are the details. 
Can he say whether any universities or university colleges in Australia have library facilities of a poorer standard than those at the Wollongong University College; if so, which. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  have engaged in some dialogue as to who has been put out and the fact that this report has been presented at this late stage of the proceedings of the Parliament. Mention was made that the Public Works Committee had been put out and had engaged in their examination at great personal sacrifice. The Minister made reference to the Department possibly being put out and making a great effort to bring this project to finality. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked about the 
Parliament not having an opportunity, in view of the number of pressing matters that have to be dealt with, to debate this matter upon consideration of all the implications that are involved. I have risen to speak in this debate to give a brief account of the reasons for the minority report to which the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and I were a party. We feel that there is a pressure to bring this matter to finality and this is not in the best interests- 
You did indeed, and I think I should add to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said in this regard. The minority report which the honourable member for Leichhardt and 1 submitted was to this effect: Unless the Government is able to convince the Parliament that the work is urgent, further investigation should be carried out to ensure that impairment of the Cockburn Sound environment will not occur'. I believe that the words 'unless the Government is able to convince the Parliament that the work is urgent' are very interpretative and they apply not only to the environmental situation but could well apply to the strategic situation as well. I will be perfectly frank. I have no great obsession with the contention that the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean represents any contemporary threat to Australia. We have had this kind of talk dished up to us for a century. At Botany Bay, not very far from the landing place of Captain Cook at Brighton-le-Sands, there are a couple of old cannons which were put there before the turn of the century. They are directed towards the Sydney Heads and were designed for the purpose of preventing the Russians from entering Botany Bay. 
There is $9m of taxpayers' money involved in this project and as the Minister implied in a sense it is a causeway which leads to nowhere. 
It is a causeway and it leads to an island which is to become a naval facility. I think there has been co-operation on the part of the Public Works Committee in considering this proposal. I expect that the Parliament will approve of the Public Works Committee recommendation and should that happen there would be very great co-operation on the part of this Parliament because it would be approving the construction of a road to something, of the details of which honourable members will be unaware. The Government has failed up to this point of time to submit details about the naval facility which the causeway will serve. These things could have been done in a more systematic and comprehensive way so that a total submission could have come to the Parliament at the one time. However, as the Government is engaging in a project which involves the expenditure of $9m, the Parliament has a right to know what all the other consequences are. As I say, I have no obsession about the Russians coming here. After all, if they do come via the Indian Ocean they will conquer half of the world on their way here. 
If there is to be a base on the western side of Australia or in that vicinity, we might have regard to potential aggressors from other parts of the world such as the north of Australia. Maybe we have some right to expect that the Government would make out a case as to why a naval facility is not being incorporated in the current proposals to build a new port at Darwin. It has often been said that there are threats from that part of the world, including the Vietnamese who are supposed to be coming steadfastly towards Australia in their sampans. There are a lot of ambiguities which have not been made clear by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Minister for the Navy or anybody else. 
But 1 do have some obsessions and they are about decent values and things like the environment and about matters which affect posterity and the wellbeing of the people in this country. I have a very strong feeling that there is too much obsession with political expediencies in many of these matters. I recall that the Prime Minister has on various occasions made pronouncements about this. In his policy speech on 8tb October he said: 
Our fleet numbers will increase and we will have to take an increasing interest in the Indian Ocean as the British withdraw. 
Firstly let me comment on that. The British have reversed the decision to withdraw. The east of the Suez embargo, which was the product of a previous British Labor Government, has now been changed and if we are to think of defence in this new contemporary situation we should probably have regard as to whether there will be utilisation of the Singapore facilities. This is a matter which deserves some consideration. The Prime Minister said: 
Therefore we have decided that we should begin the planned development of a naval base at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia. 
The point I make as I read these several comments of the Prime Minister is that the commitment is being made and subsequently in its wake after the commitment, which must be upheld at all costs, comes the consideration of the ecology of Cockburn Sound, the environmental factors and so on. Is it to be expected that the Parliament which has a predominance of Government members would dare deny a commitment by the Prime Minister? The commitment is there before the feasibility studies are undertaken. Subsequently on 19th October the Prime Minister was asked: 'Finally, Prime Minister, on defence. Is Cockburn Sound now a firm plank of your Government's policy?' He said: 
Yes, it is. We arc going to build it up gradually. We are taking the first step of a number of phases recommended by our consultants and that is the building of the causeway. And gradually we will be building up the other requirements for naval facilities so that there can be as our fleet grows in the years ahead as it will, some elements of that fleet based in that area. 
Here is another commitment made before studies were undertaken. Strangely enough the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  came into the act. On 10th March 1970 he said: 
New works under construction or approved include the development of the RAAF airfield at Learmonth, the construction of the access causeway at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia . . . 
He said on 10th March 1970 that the causeway, approval for which is now being considered in this place, was then either under construction or approved. This illustrates the anticipatory style of the Government on these matters. This is the kind of thing about which I personally have a very strong resentment. I do not believe the Parliament should be taken for granted in connection with these matters. This proposal involves depriving the public of a very beautiful island of some 3,000 acres. 
A lot of people have great regret about this. The island abounds in flora and, of course, it has some limited fauna. It accommodates that lovely creature the tamar, of which Western Australia is very proud. Evidence was given by a number of experts that other things will be put into serious jeopardy. The Committee was given evidence by such people as  Dr Joseph  Gentilli, a reader in geography at the University of Western Australia who claimed to be a world authority on climatology. He confessed to many anxieties about the Government's proposals. Evidence was also given by  Dr Logan,  a lecturer in geology at the University of Western Australia who was similarly concerned and who made many forthright statements. Evidence was given by  Dr Keith  Crooks, who is a reader in sedimentology at the Australian National University and  President  of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science. He was also extremely helpful and informed about these things. 
Time will not permit me to go through their evidence, but if honourable members read this evidence I am sure that they would be gravely concerned by the prospect of the ecology and the environment being detrimentally affected in the Cockburn Sound area. Authorities, some of whom I have referred to, have contended that the causeway is to be built over sandbanks which are held together by sea grass. They have said that as a result of the restriction of currents and the circulation of water and the pollution that is bound to take place, not just because of the causeway but because of the associated development that will be undertaken by the port authority, we could easily find that the sea grass will be destroyed. If this happens the sandbanks which will hold the causeway may collapse and I believe that this is the kind of matter that is deserving of the utmost contemplation. We should seek the benefit of the advice of all the experts we can find. 
This situation should not result because an impetuous Prime Minister, when on the hustings, in a desperate situation made commitments which cannot be scientifically upheld and which would destroy a lovely sound and fine harbaur which will serve in the near future a population of almost one million people. It is not just a matter of following in the wake of someone who wants to score some miserable or even useful political advantage; it is a matter of going about these matters in a responsible and sensible way. The country is becoming sensitive to pollution. We want to live with our environment. We want to make certain that whatever adjustments are made are made in a way which has regard for all the considerations that we can bring to bear. I am not sure whether the evidence is confidential. 
Yes. 
In that case I would like to comment in this way: I have marked 8 matters where the Maunsell report has made reference to inquiries which are being undertaken or are to be undertaken and which in my view, and in the view of people far more expert than I, should have been undertaken before this report was concluded. In evidence before the Committee people such as  Dr Gentilli Dr Logan  and  Dr Crook  contended strongly that model studies should have been made. They also contend that other examinations concerning climatic conditions, wave movements, tides and things of this kind should have been undertaken. 
In my view what has been done is just not good enough. I do not believe that the Parliament wants the Public Works Committee to treat matters in an indifferent, offhand or rubber stamping way. For my part, I am not prepared to act in such a way. I believe that we have a responsibility to let the Parliament know that when the Government approves the causeway, as it is bound to do, it will be risking an expenditure of $9m because it is possible, according to experts, that the causeway will collapse. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I have used some time in disparaging criticism of the obligation, which is now part of the Government's policy, to provide a base at Cockburn Sound. I wish to use the last few seconds of this speech to pay a tribute to the people who have serviced the Public 
Works Committee on this matter. I include in my remarks the personnel who serve under the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen).  They are men of great competence and calibre. My remarks apply also to those who serve under the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  It is a tribute to them that they have effectively done all that they could in the circumstances about putting a useful case to the Public Works Committee and to this Parliament. I hope however that we do not engage in this impetuous decision-taking in the future and that we have more regard for the preservation of environment, ecology and the best interests of the Australian people when we take into account the serious matters which concern us about defence. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In respect of each mining lease and pastoral holding held in the Northern Territory by overseas controlled companies, what are the conditions of the lease or holding and what is the (a) area of land leased or held, (b) stated purpose of the lease or holding and (c) expiry date. 
What proportion of (a) pastoral holdings and (b) mining leases in the Northern Territory are held by overseas controlled companies. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is there evidence to show that library resources available to State primary schools are often of an extremely limited and inadequate nature. 
Has consideration been given to extending the library grants scheme to primary schools. 
If not, will he arrange for a study to be undertaken to ascertain if an extension of the scheme is desirable. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the Wollongong University College occupies an area of approximately 82 acres; if so, is it anticipated that this will prove to be inadequate for the proposed student population of 10,000. 
Is he able to say, in respect of each other university established in the last 20 years, what is the (a) present student population, (b) projected student population and (c) area occupied. 
If it is established that the Wollongong University College is inadequately sited, will the Government make early and adequate financial assistance available for the acquisition of additions to the site area., 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives In Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: (a) That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack &lt; classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth wilt be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray- 
Petition received. 
The Australian immigration programme was initiated by a Labor government some 25 years ago, and it has been supported by this Government since that time. So 1 think that ail of us here are very disturbed to hear these revelations which indicate the disadvantages to which migrants are being subjected. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  indicated that the migrant education programme commenced in 1947 after about 1,000 migrants had come here. We have had a lot of opportunity to get it into gear, to oil the machinery and to make it work. I think it is disappointing for many of us suddenly to get these revelations indicating the stark nature of the situation, immigration is important to Australia. We have endeavoured to secure an increase amounting to I per cent of our population each year for some years. We have rarely achieved this. I think this year we are seeking about 175,000 migrants. Seventy per cent of the increase in our work force over the last 20 years has come from immigration. We are told by the Immigration Department that something like $650 is spent administratively on each migrant, but the net gain is said to be something like $10,000 for each migrant. We are told that migrants have added $70,000m to our gross national product over 20 years. 
If all this is the case, although I know there are many who believe it is time we properly evaluated these alleged facts, clearly we should be thinking of migrants from the point of view that immigration is not a one-sided affair. It is probably time we were doing a bit more for them. We have relegated them to poor environments, crowded houses, inadequate recreation, insufficient public services, high interest rates, sub-standard health schemes, and we have often sent them off to do the toughest jobs in the most oppressive areas. There are many manifestations that migrants are socially disadvantaged in Australia. The success of Australia's immigration programme has long been tarnished by an obtuse disinclination to evaluate the problems which migrants and their children encounter. Nevertheless, I believe it is safe to say that in the field of formal education the Commonwealth has been recreant to its responsibility to ensure that adequate facilities are available. Of course, we can say this of Australian children generally: that there are many thousands trying to get into universities, that there are probably thousands trying to get into kindergartens and that there are class loading problems and the like, but there are special problems with migrants. Without the fulfilment of these obligations by the Commonwealth Government, the States will always suffer from an inadequacy of funds necessary to meet both the general needs of education and the particular finesse and expertise and special resources required for the education of migrant children. 
Startling revelations about language problems of migrant children have now come to hand 25 years after the then Labor Government initiated our first immigration programme. For many of the 2i million people who have comprised our total net population gain since 1946 and for a large number of their children the lost opportunities that have resulted can never be regained. So much has gone, never to be retrieved, and we all deplore that fact. How many returning migrants who have left Australia in disillusionment have suffered from an inability to communicate because of insufficient skill with the English language? Over the last 5 years 21,697 migrants who had come to Australia with assisted passages have packed up their bags and gone home within 2 years of arriving here. Most of us who work in this field and who make contact with migrants know that the language problem often contributes to their unhappiness. 
Some went because of inadequate housing, deficiencies in the health scheme and all kinds of things, but many must have gone because of the deficiencies of the education system and our failure to convey an understanding of the English language to them. For a long time the Government has shown indecent haste to get migrants, any sort of migrants, as long as they were of European extraction. We have not shown any enthusiasm to get the others, regardless of whether they can speak English. What thought has been given to requiring intending migrants to take a course in English prior to leaving their home country? There are lots of people who now say that we should now put a stop to or a brake on the immigration programme.  I  suppose another way of looking at it is to decide to be more selective and to bring to this country those migrants who have a knowledge of the English language because of their willingness to apply themselves to it before they arrive in Australia. It is clearly a possibility that we could make a knowledge of English a condition of their immigration arrangement. 
Two and a half million persons who were born overseas are now in Australia. We are told that they represent  20  per cent of the population. We have sent many back. In  1969-70  we repatriated  693  for undisclosed reasons and we deported  491. 1  think this demonstrates our inability to be selective. In addition to that, we have found that a lot of those who have come here and sought naturalisation are not suitable for many reasons. I want to mention some of the reasons because they have a very precise bearing on this subject. In the  19  years to  1969  we rejected  529  applicants for naturalisation on security grounds and  20,022  on other grounds. Bui then we rejected a lot of others because of their very inadequate knowledge of English or their inability to speak English. 
The figures I am quoting come from the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  and I think they have a very clear relevance to the Bill since we are talking about educating migrants. Among the things in which we need to educate them - and this is clearly the subject of the Bill - is the English language. 
 I disagree with the Minister but I must not be diverted since I am making only a passing reference to this matter anyway. It is amazing that in these years we have had such a high incidence of people whose applications for naturalisation have been rejected because of their inability to speak English. In  1961 1,683  people were rejected; in  1962, 1,920;  in  1963, 1,760;  in  1964, 1,670;  in  1965, 914;  in  1966, 505;  in  1967, 237;  and in  1968-  the last year for which the figures are available to me  - 170. 
asked the. Minister for National Development, upon- notice: 
ls he able to say whether Clutha Development is proposing a multi-million dollar offshore coal loading facility- in the Coledale-Scarborough area north of Wollongong to .facilitate export from the southern coalfields. 
Are details of this proposal; including its estimated cost, known; if so, what are they. 
Will either Commonwealth' or Stale funds bc utilised in. either the project or ancillary development. 
Is he able to say whether Clutha Development is overseas-owned. 
Can he say (a) how it is incorporated, (b) what arc ils present business interests, (c) what is its capital and (d) what coal mines or coal leases are owned or held by this firm. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral a question. Will he institute an investigation into the subject matter of the book entitled 'Without Hardware* which was written by the widow of the late  Dr Clifford  Dalton, a former head of the atomic research establishment at Lucas Heights? In particular will the Minister investigate the contention that  Dr Dalton  was murdered by an international conspiracy and that his death was linked with that of another scientist, the late  Dr Bogle?  Will he also probe complaints against the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and senior officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission who are said to have engaged in a conspiracy against the Dalton family? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What area of land is made available at Pine Gap for use by the United States of America. 
For what period and on what terms was the land made available. 
Does the utilisation of this land by the United States involve the relinquishment of Australian sovereignty over the area; if so, by what constitutional authority has this been done. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Do any senators or members of the House of Representatives occupy Government-owned houses in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, in respect of each case (a) who is the tenant, (b) what is the address of the premises and (c) what are the rental and tenancy terms. 
Like previous speakers  i  welcome the announcement that a college of this type will be built in Alice Springs because it is apparent to anybody who goes to Central Australia that additional facilities are needed for Aboriginal students. On one occasion when the Public Works Committee was meeting in Alice Springs to look at the secondary education needs of that area a witness was asked what area the proposed Alice Springs high school covered. I think he said it extended from Port Augusta in the south to Mt lsa in the north. One can imagine in that region the number of Aboriginal people who are denied any education at all due to the inadequacy of facilities. The members of the Public Works Committee in the hearing on the Alice Springs high school paid particular attention to the special needs of Aboriginal people including additional and special facilities to assist them with reading. There are also various problems which occur to a considerable extent among desert dwellers and these include hearing deficiences. Additional provisions are needed for this purpose in schools and colleges catering for Aboriginal people. 
Mention has been made of the Kormilda College. I recently visited the Kormilda College at Darwin. Anyone who goes to Darwin must be overwhelmingly impressed with the standard of educational facilities in that rapidly expanding' city. There are a number of excellent infant, primary and secondary schools and some private colleges. However, from my observations the most distressingly inadequate educational facility in Darwin is the Kormilda College for Aboriginal students. The college utilises old wartime premises of a warehouse variety and in every way it is totally inadequate. I would not like anybody to get the impression from what the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said today that we would be doing a good thing if we were to emulate the Kormilda College. From the stand point of physical aspects I think he would probably agree with me that the college is completely inadequate and quite disgraceful. 1 hope that the college to be provided at Alice Springs will set a new standard. Most of us in this Parliament are aware of the inadequate educational opportunities for Aboriginals in Australia. We have been told that on the eastern seaboard 9 out of 10 Aboriginals do not get past second form. When we think of the low number of Aboriginal people who qualify at the tertiary level of education we can appreciate the enormous need to assail this problem in a dramatic way and in this way we will need to have, apart from the building of the college at Alice Springs, better facilities and resources to enable the Aboriginal people to keep in touch with their own communities. It is a matter of assisting them to unburden themselves of their ignorance through formal education; it is also a matter of encouraging them to consolidate the pride which they have in their racial origins. To achieve that objective they will require travel opportunities so that they may return to their families in the remote parts of this country from time to time. I hope it will not be very long before the proposed educational facility for Aboriginal students at Alice Springs will become a reality. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to say whether a British firm of consulting engineers, sponsored by the Shell group, have been working on the development of a floating seadrome and have established through scale model tests that it could solve many difficulties associated with airport construction, passenger congestion and undesirable effects of aircraft noise. 
Has consideration been given to the use of seadromes for Australian civil aviation purposes: If so, which areas have been the subject of consideration and what was the result in each case. 
Is the Department of Civil Aviation keeping itself informed of the research into seadromes development. 
Is it anticipated that the seadromes could be applied to meet Australian civil ' aviation requirements. 
asked the  Minister  for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to say which public water supplies in Australia are (a) fluoridated and (b) not fluoridated. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether units of the 3 arms of our defence Services have already been deployed in respect of civil  distrubances  on the Gazelle' Peninsula. Did these involve Air Force Hercules aircraft, naval patrol boats and Army signalmen? Is the Prime Minister satisfied that this deployment was preceded by the fulfilment of all legal obligations? Why did the Government fail to consult the House of Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, the United Nations Trusteeship Council and this Parliament about this important matter which could result in another Sharpeville? 
-] support the proposal to augment the electricity supply to Alice Springs by the provision of a new power station. I am concerned about several things, each of which has been referred to briefly this afternoon. 1 am concerned first of all with the fact that the Public Works Committee found it necessary to draw attention to the lateness of presentation of the proposal to the Committee which made very pertinent comments about this matter. I believe that on every occasion when the Committee is disadvantaged in its work by the lateness of submissions the Parliament and the Minister responsible should be made aware of those circumstances. The Committee stated: 
Although there was some delay on the part of the Committee in conducting this inquiry because of the Senate election, the fads are clear :t llC once again we have been asked to consider a proposal whose timetable has lagged badly. As with the Avalon Airport development proposal on which the Committee reported in a similar vein on 21 October 1970. we were placed under pressure to approve the project. The Committee would have felt compelled to support  the  present proposal even if there had been a belter alternative method of tackling the problem because Alice Springs may have been left without an adequate electricity supply. 
That is the kind of thing we do not want to happen again. The Committee went on to point out: 
. a possible consequence of the ineffectual management of the proposal might be that Alice Springs will have a shortage of electric power in the winter of 1973. 
I hope that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is just as concerned about that effect as 1 am. 
If the honourable member lives there he should be more concerned than I am. When the term ineffectual management of the proposal' is used it simply means the management of the proposal as it is brought to the Committee, the sequence of events and the timetabling which brought about the inevitable results that Alice Springs will be short of power by the end of 1973. That kind of pressurisation is inimical to the proper conduct of the Committee's work. This project will cost about $2. 5m. lt is not a big project by the standards of Commonwealth public works. Nevertheless, when one takes into account that for some years the electricity load in Alice Springs has been rising by about 22 per cent per annum one can understand that considerably more people will be affected in the future than is the case at the present time. 
I take this opportunity to draw attention to the indifferent and dilatory altitude of either the Department of the Interior or the Department of National Development which is shown by the failure of one or both of those departments - in any case it is a failure of the Government - to examine the question of utilising natural gas in Alice Springs. It is a most astounding matter that oil is transported half way across the continent to Alice Springs, a place where undoubted substantial supplies of natural gas are available. It was established to the satisfaction of government departments early in 1967, according to the expert evidence given to the Committee, that adequate supplies of gas were available in Alice Springs to meet power requirements - not just the requirements of the new power station but all the additional requirements which will inevitably flow from the development which is bound to take place in that flourishing area. 
As honourable members know, Australia is using its own oil resources to some extent, but only to some extent. To a considerable extent oil for furnace or power purposes is still being imported. A company called Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd owns the gas supply in Alice Springs. This is a regrettable circumstance. I think I can speak for honourable members on this side of the Parliament when I express the view that a more desirable situation would be for the resources of this country to be retained in the ownership of the people. But that has passed us by already, and the supply of natural gas in Alice Springs is already in the hands of private enterprise. About 90 miles from Alice Springs in a westerly direction the Magellan company has its Christmas tree. That term does not imply a bonanza. It is applied to the pipes and valves standing there as evidence of a very substantial supply which, according to the Bureau of Mineral Resources, amounts to 1 trillion cubic feet. That is the size of the known reserves of natural gas in that area, which are said to be completely adequate. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said that because the submission to the Public Works Committee was late there would be power deficiencies in 
Alice Springs, and consideration of the utilisation of natural gas was responsible, but the evidence indicated that the principal witness from the Department of Works had the opposite point of view. He thought that inadequate consideration was given to the utilisation of natural gas. He made extensive mention of this in evidence. I do not think I can find that evidence conveniently now but honourable members will have the opportunity to read it for themselves. 
The witness, a  Mr Weiss,  was not at all reluctant to make the point that had his Department had the perogative in this matter, instead of either the Department of National Development or the Department of the Interior, something would have happened a long time ago. He said: If the Department of Works had been given authority to proceed with negotiations with Magellans we would have done it. But we were told this was a matter for others to investigate and we were not in it. We were raring to do it'. He went on in a similar vein in various other parts of his very long submission to the Committee. 
I want to emphasise that not only does this matter have a bearing on the supply of power but the fact is that if natural gas is to be utilised for any other purpose in Alice Springs a prior necessity is to integrate it into the power producing system; that is to say, it will never be utilised for any other purpose in Alice Springs unless it is used for the production of power. That is the very real likelihood. The fact that this Government has been so unsystematic in its approach to the question is a matter for great regret. It is a further indication of the very great need for the Government to adopt a national fuel policy so that the regions of the nation can have the advantage of the utilisation of Australia's internal resources. 
I believe that it will not cost very much to convert this power station to gas at a subsequent stage. From memory, the figure might be $260,000. It might be something less, but it certainly will be no more than that. But it is still regrettable that the matter was not given the consideration it needs. I strongly suggest that, arising from the discussion today, the Minister refer the matter to Cabinet in the hope that at some future time the people of Alice Springs may derive the benefit of the Government giving encouragement to the people who hold the licence to produce gas in that area. Clearly, there is no prospect that gas will be produced unless there is a Government initiative. I believe that the fact that that initiative has not been in evidence up to this point of lime is worthy of note. I bring the matter to the attention of the Parliament in the hope that these deficiencies will be overcome. 
My remarks will be directed to the ruination of Botany Bay which is bordering on my electorate and which, in any case, is a rare gem in our environmental heritage. Today in the Sydney 'Mirror' there was a dramatic heading which said: Death Warning! Botany Bay fish threat'. This highlighted a report by  Dr Thomas  Mullins, a lecturer in chemistry at the University of New South Wales. According to the Sydney 'Mirror' tonight, he called for an immediate inquiry into the dangerous amounts of poisonous mercury pollution found in fish. I think honourable members would know that it is less than a year since mercury was discovered in the Baltic Sea and in Lake St Clair in Canada. Since then mercury pollution has become well recognised and regarded as a potential killer.  Dr Mullins  went on to say that regular eaters of fish taken from Botany Bay are risking death. He said that 1,000 lb of fish were sent to the fish markets and sold locally. As well large consignments of oysters are sent to the Sydney fish markets. Honourable members will be interested to know that those oysters come to Parliament House and are indulged in to a considerable extent. 

 Dr Mullins said that commercial fishing in Botany Bay must be halted. He added that if people regularly eat fish from Botany Bay they will die. He is a qualified man. One might not be so impressed if only one expert were making these contentions. lt is important to know that these remarks have been confirmed by  Dr Cummins,  the Director-General of Public Health for New South Wales who today is attributed with having said that readings many times higher than the safety level are in evidence in regard to mercury at Botany Bay. Mercury poisoning is a frightening experience which affects the central nervous system, producing blindness, deafness and loss of voluntary body functions before death. Honourable members will recall the phrase 'mad as a hatter', lt is interesting to note that that phrase derives from the acute mercury poisoning that people in the hat making trade sustain by handling mercury in the processes involved in that trade. 
The 'Sunday Australian' stated that there was up to 5.8 parts per million of mercury in fish in Botany Bay and 2.8 parts per million of mercury in oysters taken from Botany Bay.  Dr Cummins  at first refuted those claims, but now he agrees. The figure of 5.8 parts per million is much higher than the levels for Lake Erie and the St Clair River in the United States, where the mercury content in fish called pike went to 3.57 parts per million. It is very interesting to reflect for a while on where this contamination of Botany Bay is originating. Let me read the following remarks from an expert statement:   it is the general heavily polluted condition of the Bay itself which is the main cause. Because of the large amount of sewage and other organic matter put into the Bay, a large amount of oxygen is used up to oxidise all the effluent  . . the filling of swamps and wetlands, as well as general pollution in the Georges and Cooks Rivers which flow into (the Bay), help to produce a condition in the Bay itself which will encourage this transformation of mercury salts to methyl mercury. 
There is specific evidence to indicate that industry is contributing in a substantial way to this hazard. I believe that Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd can fairly be indicted for its part in this polluting process. We are told that methyl mercury, or alkyl mercury compounds generally, are used heavily in the manufacture of paper as slimicides. In this case methyl mercury itself is probably entering Botany Bay in significant quantities. At this moment the Maritime Services Board is proceeding against Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd for pollution of Botany Bay by pulp which, in addition, adds to the general poor condition of the Bay. We are told that paper pulp almost completely covers the floor of Botany Bay. Then there is Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd, which is producing caustic soda and using mercury cells at Botany. It is almost certain, according to the experts, that this is a significant source of mercury entering Botany Bay. The Bunnerong power station - a public instrumentality - is also involved. We are told that the burning of coal can release mercury into the environment. In addition, there is the oil refinery at Botany Bay. 
These matters are very important. I would like to go on and develop this general theme because the adverse effects of mercury poison in other parts of the world have been most disasterous. In Japan, for example, in one area 111 persons were reported to have been killed or to have suffered serious neurological damage as a result of eating fish and shellfish caught in mercury contaminated areas. There are several parts of Japan where the death rate has been exceedingly high - well in excess of 100. Mercury that enters the body has a cumulative effect similar lo that of strontium 90. Methyl mercury will accumulate in food chains because it is fat soluble. We are told that a hawk can descend from the sky and take the concentrated mercury that is in a small fish intake, and consequently suddenly nosedive out of the sky as a victim of this dread hazard- 
Throughout Australia today there are people who are very greatly concerned about pollution matters. We hear the spontaneous agitation of certain people and other people, through organisations concerned with conservation, expressing their concern about the Great Barrier Reef in Queensland, the Colong Caves in New South Wales, the Little Desert National Park in Victoria, the Cockburn Sound in Western Australia and the proposed ravaging of Wollongong's northern beaches by the Bermudan owned company, Clutha Development Pty Ltd. It is going to stockpile the world's largest pile of coal, pollute the coastline and ruin the environment in that area. We know of the problem in the great cities of Wollongong and Newcastle where there is air, water and noise pollution. We know that there is a threat to health and even to the very existence of life itself yet this Government, unlike the national governments of the United States and Canada, is failing to concern itself with these problems. In several of the States we already have a Minister for the environment. This is the case in New South Wales and Western Australia and, if I am not mistaken, it may be the case in South Australia as well. But it is a much bigger problem than just dealing with Botany Bay or a river or estuary. This pollution finally ends up in the off-shore areas. It finishes up on the territorial shelf and it is very apparent that we will need to approach this problem in a more cohesive way. The Commonwealth's indifference will ultimately contribute to a degree of pollution which the States will be completely incapable of handling. Now we have had brought to our attention in a most dramatic form today in the Sydney 'Daily Mirror' through announcements made by  Dr Cummins,  the Director-General of Public Health in New South Wales and another very distinguished expert, a development which is exceptional to this country. We hope it will not become the order of the day. It will be an alarming thing if we start to hear of deaths from mercury poisoning as a result of the consumption of fish taken from Botany Bay. As one of those members representing an area bordering on Botany Bay I treat the matter as being of the utmost importance and I sincerely hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when constituting his new ministry might give heed to this very serious warning and include in his Cabinet complex a Minister with precise, overall and particular responsibility so that we can approach this matter in a more objective way than has been the case hitherto. 
asked the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What applications have been received from people of Aboriginal descent to lease reserve land, and what was the result in each case. 
asked the Minister-in- 
Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a communication forwarded recently by the Aboriginal Advancement League of Victoria to the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations in which concern is expressed that Australia has not ratified International Labour Organisation Convention No. 107 and that the Aboriginal land rights claim is adversely affected as a result. 
If so, what are the terms of the communication, and has the League requested the United Nations to intercede in the question of Aboriginal land rights. 
Has the Government taken or does it intend to take, any action through the United Nations in regard to the League's communications. 
What are the provisions of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 107. 
Which Governments (a) have and (b) have not ratified the Convention. 
Has the Australian Government, in fact,  ratified the Convention; if not, why not. 
Which of the Australian States have agreed to give effect to the Convention and in what manner has such agreement affected the Aboriginal land rights claim. 
asked the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is ita fact that the 1969-70 annual report of the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises has Indicated that out of 254 applications for assistance 65 were rejected and 133 lapsed. 
Did the amount allocated for Aboriginal Enterprises reach a total of$699.868 out of a total available of $5m. 
Did the low level of loans result from the criteria used in evaluating applications and does this criteria have more regard for traditional lending practice than the socially disadvantaged circumstances in which most Aboriginal people live. 
Were loans to Aboriginal people restricted to cases which demonstrated a capacity to meet capital repayments and interest repayments. 
What is the interest rate payable on these loans and why is interest charged. 
Is the success of the scheme lagging through the Government's insistence that normal business standards should apply in the capitalisation of Aboriginal Enterprises. 
Would the scheme have more initiative and imagination if the viability of the proposed enterprise was considered separately from such matters as collateral, the previous banking record of applicants and other traditional suitability criteria. 
asked the Prime  Minister,  upon  notice: 
What grants have been made out of the Commonwealth Literary Fund since its inception. 
What are the names of persons or organisations whose applications for grants have been unsuccessful. 
Did the Australasian Book Society submit an application for a grant. 
If so was it known at the time the application was under consideration that the Society had published fifty-nine works by Australian authors from its inception since 1952 to June 1970. 
Was the application unsuccessful; if so, what was the reason for declining assistance to this non-profit co-operative society which has made such a significant contribution to the encouragment of Australian literature. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that due to poor operating capabilities and escalating costs, production of the F111-C fighter-bomber will end next year? 
If so, what changes have been made or will be made to the Australian order? 
The House has heard an account from the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about what has been done overseas to arrest pollution and the destruction of the environment. I should not need to remind him that the purpose of this debate is to encourage this Government to accept its responsibility with regard to Australia's problems. The terminology of the matter of public importance before the House is that we are to discuss the Government's delay in acting on the recommendations it has received and the undertakings it has given to safeguard the environment. There is no doubt that in the Senate campaign last year the then Prime Minister committed the Government to the early establishment of a new department to handle pollution. This department was to be the Commonwealth Office of the Environment. This proposal is now to be shelved. Vacillation is the order of the day in regard to the crisis of our times. This cannot be excused. The new department, along with Canberra's hedges and lawns, has become one of the first casualties in the Government's austerity drive. The abandonment of the programme at this point throws into sharp relief the dubious scale of values and the poor order of priorities held by this Government. 
Some time ago a Senate select committee applied itself to the consideration of pollution and environmental problems. The findings of the committee shocked and sensitised the nation. The people to a man became concerned about the urgency of the problem. For a major party to display an indifference and disregard about environmental matters in the Senate campaign that followed the report of the committee would have spelt disaster. Instead the then Prime Minister took a positive stand. He said that the Office of the Environment would be responsible for advising the Commonwealth and recommending action that should be taken to prevent or reduce pollution arising out of the activities of any Commonwealth department or authority. He announced that the States would be asked to form a national advisory committee to act in an advisory capacity. Most of the States have already acquiesced in this proposal. The announcement was made that 2 senior positions were to be created, one at a salary of Si 3,6 10 and the other at a salary of $11,250. They were to be alone in this Commonwealth bureaucracy to take a positive attitude about this mailer and to exercise leadership. They were to operate under the auspices of the Prime Minister's Department. How appropriate that would be. lt is the Prime Minister's Department and the Prime Minister himself who have the capacity, the authority and the stature in the parliamentary and governmental spectrum to effect coordination in a useful and practical way. However, instead we find that the new organisation is to be relegated to the repository of abstract activities - the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. To my way of thinking this is just not good enough. I strongly doubt whether one of the most junior Ministers in the Government will have the authority, the capacity and indeed the experience sensibly and sensitively to integrate into the activities of so many other departments which have a responsibility about these matters but which for far too long have been the subject of neglect under the present structure. 1 want to refer briefly to the enormous ramifications involved and to the hotchpotch nature of efforts made by this Government to control our environment so far as Commonwealth responsibility is involved. Firstly I refer lo the Department of Education and Science which, as honourable members know, controls the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The . Department conducts research into environmental pollution through this body. Also, the Depart ment is responsible for the secretariat of the Wildlife and Conservation Conference. So here we have one department which is already affected. Next we have the Department of Health which has an enormous responsibility in this field. The Department organises meetings of Health Ministers which are held periodically. The Department of Health is responsible for the National Health and Medical Research Council which provides advice on radiation, pesticides, hazardous materials, atmospheric pollution and lead poisoning. One can already start to see the interrelationship between Commonwealth departments. The third department is the Department of National Development. Through this Department, the Australian Water Resources Council and the River Murray Commission advice is provided on such matters as oil pollution in off-shore drilling areas. More importantly, and I believe very significantly, the Department of National Development has a responsibility in regard to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the whole question of radiation. Problems could emerge in the future if this area is not effectively controlled. Problems could arise at Lucas Heights and subsequently at Jervis Bay and at all the other nuclear power stations which it is predicted will be established in the not far distant future. 
Also, there is the Department of the Interior. The Minister for Shipping and Transport, who preceded me in this debate, was formerly the Minister in charge of that Department. He ought to be aware of his former responsibilities as Minister for the Interior in regard to environmental matters for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In addition, the Department of Primary Industry is responsible for the use of pesticides and fertilisers. The Department has a general oversight of the responsibilities of the Australian Agricultural Council. The Department of Trade and Industry also is involved in environmental matters because it is concerned with the export and quality of foodstuffs. Again the question of pesticides residues is involved. In addition, the Department of Trade and Industry - is greatly concerned with manufacturing industries. It is aware that pollution control will greatly add to manufacturing costs. Another department which is involved in this field is the Department of Civil Aviation which is concerned with noise pollution. The Department is concerned with the problems of noise at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, Avalon Airport and many other airports. The Department of Labour and National Service is concerned with noise in industry and with diseases caused by pollution in certain industries. 1 would need to spend some time to enunciate the wide range of responsibilities that the Department of Shipping and Transport has in regard to the environment. Australia has signed the International Convention for the Prevention of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil. The Department of Shipping and Transport is responsible for the secretariat to the Australian Transport Advisory Council, which controls such matters as the exhaust from motor vehicles. I have mentioned just some of the departments involved and some of their ramifications although I have not developed them at any length. As I said, the Department of Shipping and Transport exercises enormous responsibilities. This can be seen when we take into account the recent oil spillages in Botany Bay and other places, which have been the subject of publicity, and the continuance of oil spillage at sea, the discharge from bilge tanks at sea and the need to innovate techniques to prevent the ruination of our foreshores. 
With just these few examples we can start to get a bird's eye view of the wide range of ramifications for which there ought to be a proper co-ordinating authority in the national Parliament. 
I say without any hesitation that there is no need for anyone to get finicky about this matter. The Government has failed the people of Australia. It should be indicted for its insensitivity to their feelings. The Minister for Shipping and Transport, who preceded me in this debate, had the audacity to speak in glowing terms about what other countries have done, but he did not mention what this Government has failed to do. I could go on to enunciate many critical situations in which environmental pollution is the order of the day. For example, the Commonwealth has acquiesced and co-operated with the States in allowing an overseas company to come into my electorate and establish an off shore coal loader which will be responsible for the ruination of a part of Australia's most beautiful coastline - the area between Sydney and Wollongong. The Government is more concerned about private companies making a profit than it is about the rape and pillage of our resources and the human factors involved. 
I come back to the matter which was initiated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  namely, that this Government has delayed acting on recommendations and, indeed, has failed to fulfil the undertaking it has given on the hustings to the people of Australia at election time. The Government was elected by the people of Australia on its promise to do something about pollution. It has a mandate from them to do something. I believe that the fact that it has failed to honour its promise is a matter on which it stands indicted. 
Under the provisions of this Bill certain pensioners are to receive an increase of 50c a week. It refers to age, invalid, widow and tuberculosis pensioners. Under this unimaginative and degrading Bill, which takes into account none of the wide consequences of a sensible approach to social services, 50c is to be handed out to a small number of the variety of social service recipients. The tenor of what has been said by honourable members opposite is that they are satisfied with that situation. Let me say that honourable members on this side of the House are not. 
No proportionate increases are to be paid to the thousands of people who receive part pensions. Only those who receive pensions at the maximum rate or at a rate within 50c of the maximum rate will qualify for the increase, which will take effect on the first pay day in April. There is no retrospectivity in this measure, unlike that for the Second Division officers of the Public Service who recently gained  large  scale and retrospective increases. There is no increase in any of the social service provisions apart from pensions. For example, there is no increase in child endowment, payments to pensioners' dependent wives and their children, supplementary assistance or mothers' allowances. 
The whole proposal is so riddled and loaded with anomalies and inconsistencies that it is difficult to imagine that anybody would be prepared to stand up and justify it in the Parliament of the nation. 1 ask the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is sitting at the table, whether he approves of the notion that units of 2 people should receive an income involving a great disparity as compared with units of one person. 1 refer, first of all, to the situation of a pensioner couple, where 2 married people are receiving a pension. Under the provisions of this Bill they receive payments amounting to $28.50 a week. In the case of a pensioner and his non-pensioner wife - and many such wives are unable to work - the pensioner receives $16 a week and his wife $7 a week, making a total payment of $23 a week. The first couple receives $28.50 a week, giving  a  disparity between the second couple of $5.50 a week. Then there is another couple, perhaps living next door, and the husband is the recipient of an unemployment or sickness benefit. He receives $10 a week and his spouse $7 a week, a total income of $17 a week. In this situation, represented by three different units of 2 people, the disparity is as high as $11.50 a week. If the Minister for Social Services can rationalise this position and cause it to look like a sensible social service policy I will be most impressed with his efforts. 
If we consider the situation applying to units of 3 people, the position is almost as bad. For example, in the case of a class A widow with 2 children, she receives $16 a week pension, 50c for the first child and $1 for the second child giving her a total income of $17.50 a week. In some circumstances, a mother's allowance of $6 a week may be paid, but not in all circumstances, and so the income for that unit of 3 people could be regarded as $17.50 a week. In the case of an invalid pensioner and his non-pensioner wife and 1 child, the husband receives $16, and his nonpensioner wife receives $7 and they receive for their first child $2.50, giving a total income of $25.50 a week. A third group of 3 people can comprise a sickness pension beneficiary who receives $10 a week, his wife $7 and for their child they receive $2.50, making a weekly income of $19.50. The situation exists where people can be living in comparable circumstances, in the same sort of house and dealing with the same butcher, baker and candlestick maker, yet under the Government's scheme they are expected to live on varying incomes. If the Minister for Social Services is going to reply, I should like him, if he possibly can, to justify that situation. 
Only a conservative government that has degenerated to the point where human need has become the plaything of political expediency could deal with such important sociological matters in such an offhanded and indifferent way. This paltry and inadequate increase is the accidental by-product of a series of unbecoming events in which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and his Government take little pride. It represents a desperate attempt by an insecure Prime Minister to curry favour with his wavering supporters. Without a censure motion, this pension increase may never have seen the light of day. It was thrown in at the end of a disjointed and defensive speech by the new Prime Minister almost as a mere afterthought The announcement was fortuitously facilitated only by the consideration of the House in granting an extension of time so that the Prime Minister could make his dramatic announcement to the Parliament. Now, we have the new McMahon line. At a meeting of pensioners the other day, the Prime Minister was referred to as 'Half-dollar Bill' and halfdollar bill is his policy. Now that average earnings have soared to $84.80 a week, the Prime Minister is content to give a pension of $16 a week to single pensioners and $14.25 to each married pensioner. To me, this does not appear to be related to anything at all sensible. Conceptually, this primitive half-dollar mentality is a relic of the dark ages, the like of which cannot be seen in any other comparable country. Pension rates are being set in isolation from many critical factors which should be taken into account. The cost of living is the most important factor to be taken into account in determining the adequacy or otherwise of pensions. Without this sensitivity, pensioners must be periodically impoverished. 
Throughout 1969 the cost of living rose at a rate of 3 per cent per annum. In the first quarter of 1970 it rose by 3.4 per cent, in the second quarter by 3.5 per cent, in the third quarter by 3.8 per cent, and in the fourth quarter the increase moved up to an unprecedented rate of 7.6 per cent. That represents the highest rate of increase since 1951 and is three times higher than the average rate of increase. Clearly, pensions must be integrated into the transient price structure if the value of pensions is to be maintained. 
The proposal that pension movements should be geared to productivity measurements is certainly not the answer. After all, even the national wage bill has continually represented a diminishing proportion of the gross national product. In fact, over the last 15 years, from 1955 to 1970, wages, as a percentage of gross national product, have fallen from 63.2 per cent to 61.7 per cent. That has happened despite the fact that during that same period the work force actually rose from 89 per cent of the population to 91 per cent of the population. If workers in industry with the power of their representation cannot keep pace with productivity, what chance has the pensioner? The best that can be said of the Australian pension scheme is that it concentrates the limited resources made available on those most in need. However, the needs of such people are far from placated, and all the other desirable features of a comprehensive social welfare scheme are ignored. 
Only a year ago, the Minister for Social Services was forced to admit in answer to a question that no fewer than 123 countries have a national superannuation scheme. That information was contained in an answer to question number 130 which appeared in Hansard of 21st April 1970. The countries whose people are covered by superannuation schemes are often those that do not enjoy anywhere near the degree of prosperity which we concede exists in Australia. The list starts with Afghanistan, lt continues in alphabetical order and includes countries such as Albania and Algeria, down to Uruguay, Venezuela and Yugoslavia, and finishes with Zambia. But no such scheme exists in Australia. This once proud country that led the world in the field of social services is now right down at the bottom of the list. 
It is interesting to refer to an article in the London 'Times' of 10th March 1971. The article refers to the proportion of gross national product which is expended by a number of countries on social welfare. The Scandinavian countries spend 10.9 per cent of their gross national product on social welfare; the member countries of the European Economic Community spend 15.2 per cent; Canada 9.9 per cent; the United Kingdom 8.6 per cent; Switzerland 8.2 per cent; New Zealand 6.6 per cent; the United States of America 5.9 per cent; and in Australia the figure is down to 5.5 per cent. The Government seems intent on polarising poverty in retirement. The inflationary nature of the economy in which average earnings rise by 5 per cent or 6 per cent per annum makes it difficult, if not impossible, for people to save in preparation for retirement. In any case, those who can and do save receive scant consideration in terms of the means test. 
Professor Downing who, as I think I need not remind the House, is the Profes sor of Research in Economics at the Melbourne University had this to say in his paper on 'National Superannuation - Means Test and Contributions': 
In an economy where money incomes are rising, as they have been in Australia over the last 30 years, it is inevitable that most savers will be bitterly disappointed with the outcome of their savings efforts when assessed in terms of their incomes at the time of their retirement. 
Their bitterness in this situation is aggravated by the fact that the pension, the reward in their eyes of the improvident, is regularly raised as money incomes rise; by saving they have done their bit to abate inflation, but compensation for inflation goes to those who, by failing to save, have done nothing to abate it. 
Professor Downing goes on to propose in detail a comprehensive compulsory national superannuation scheme with portable benefits. It is a scheme that has been tested in academic circles in this country and has stood the test of time. The Downing scheme varies contributions and pensions according to earnings while employed, lt involves government and employee contributions. This is one of two significant schemes put forward in Australia since 1965. 
The other was put forward by Professor R. C. Gates. He also proposed a comprehensive national superannuation scheme which was to be financed by employee, employer and government contributions and which would pay a uniform pension to all contributors. Both of these schemes are of long standing and are actuarily sound yet for some unaccountable reason the Government consistently refuses to listen to them, to identify them or to concede that they are sound, and no contention is ever put in support of them by any Government supporter in the successive debates we have in this Parliament on social services. 
There are examples such as the Canadian scheme which could be followed. The Canadian pension plan was introduced in 1968. lt is a comprehensive welfare programme. lt provides a minimum level of income for all Canadians. It is compulsory and contributory and is wage related. It covers old age, disability and dependent survivors, it adjusts to the cost of living index, and it includes self employed people. It embraces the provision of food, clothing. shelter, vocational training, household supplies, tools of trade, health care and welfare services. 
There has been a great deal of argument and disagreement about the relationship of the present rate of pension to the cost of living index. I think it was one of my colleagues who made the point that for some unaccountable reason we have suddenly switched away from establishing a relationship between pensions and average weekly earnings. Surely this is a reasonable test to apply. It is not a matter of the cost of living, the basic wage or anything else into which there are injected all kinds of disparities and irregularities. I do not think the Minister for Social Services would be inclined to quibble and argue with the figures made available by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Research Service. It is very interesting to note these figures and to see the decline in recent years in the ratio of pensions to average male earnings. First, it is important to say that away back in 1949-50 the pension paid to married, age and invalid pensioners was at a much higher level than that which prevails at the present time. The amount of pension paid in 1949-50 was equal to 21.9 per cent of average male earnings. 
It is always tedious to read figures and 1 will not be tempted to do so, but I will summarise the position by saying that right up to 1964-65, according to this official chart which I hold in my hand, the figure never fell below 20 per cent. In 1964-65 it was 20.1 per cent. I do not know whether the Minister is prepared to say that the country is now in dire straits, that we have deteriorated under the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government and that people are getting it tough. I have heard in recent times of the affluence of the stock exchange and that people are getting rich in this country at an unprecedented rate. If one looks at the taxation figures, people in many situations seem to be doing quite well. But although the pension paid from 1949 to 1965 was never less than 20 per cent of average male earnings, after 1965 the percentage suddenly nose dived. In successive years we went down to 19.3 per cent, 19.4 per cent, 18.3 per cent and 18.1 per cent. Then we come to the last percentage which I have. My mathematical prowess has never been acknowledged, even by myself, but I was sitting here a moment ago working out the percentage that $14.25 represents of the acknowledged average male earnings of $84.50. 
Where did 1 obtain those figures? I do not think that the Minister would argue with me when I say that the rate for a married pensioner now is $14.25 a week. The Prime Minister, in announcing this measure, said that average male earnings are now $84.50 a week. On my calculations the proportion of the pension rate to average male earnings is not in the 20 per cent bracket; it is down to 16.8 per cent. Some people say that figures can lie and that liars can figure, but I do not want to engage in any of that nonsense. My calculations are based on an official table, and the Minister may be good enough to disillusion me if I have made a mistake in this matter. I would be much obliged if he would do so, but until I receive that answer I contend that after 20-odd years of this Government's term in office we have reached the stage where pensions now are a smaller proportion of average male earnings than they have been since 1949-50. If that is the case it is a downright disgrace and the sooner something is done about it the better. 
There is a number of other matters to which one would like to refer. This is not a Social Services Bill at all. It is a Bill of expedience which is designed to try to retrieve a lost reputation and to gather a miserable handful of votes. The Bill is not based on human compassion. The milk of human kindness has turned sour. The Bill is designed to get votes and nothing else. It is not related to a national welfare scheme. No concern has been shown for the maternity allowance, which has remained unaltered for 25 years, or for the 1 million people who, according to all the experts, are impoverished. There is no mention of child endowment, which has remained unaltered for the first child for 18 years, for the second child for 20 years and for the third child for 4 years. If one looks at the losses that are involved one is absolutely appalled. 
I believe that we have reached the stage in this country where there is a need for a royal commission to inquire into the whole question of social welfare. This tinkering and tampering, this patching and papering is not the kind of thing which brings our country into good repute. More significantly, it is a disgrace that we are not keeping pace conceptually with the contemporary ideas which are manifesting themselves in comparable countries. My colleagues who will follow me in this debate, if given the opportunity, will outline alternative schemes which are summarised in the amendment which every honourable member who has any heart, any human compassion and any regard for justice will willingly support. 
1. present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum  nf  one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for those needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Slate school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are credit unions subject lo income tax. 
If so what are the relevant provisions of the taxation laws. 
When did these provisions become operative. 
What are the findings and case particular* of any Taxation Board of Review rulings thai have a bearing on this matter. 
Is it intended that amending legislation be introduced to relieve credit unions of the burden of income lax. 
Is he able to say what countries, other than Australia, subject credit unions' to income lat. 
The matter of public importance which I have proposed for discussion concerns the Clutha Development Pty Ltd Agreement Act 1970 assented to by the New South Wales Parliament on 9th December 1970. Clutha Development Pty Ltd is one of 19 subsidiary companies of Wollclift Pty Ltd, a company incorporated in New South Wales with paid up capital of $2m in 1 million shares of $2 each. The major shareholder is Universe Tankships Inc., Bermuda, said to be controlled by Daniel Ludwig. This company controls 16 New South Wales coalmines and certain shipping interests. Approval has recently been given to Clutha to engage in a development project for the export of massive quantities of New South Wales coking coal at the expense of the Australian people. Through its blissful indifference and slovenly acquiescence, the Commonwealth Government is responsible, with the Government of New South Wales, for many shameful provisions of the Clutha Development Pty Ltd Agreement Act. 
The Act authorises the making of an agreement between the State of New South Wales and the company for construction, maintenance and operation of a private railway line from Burragorang Valley to a stockpile at Coalcliff on theIllawarra coastline north of Wollongong. It also authorises the construction of conveyors from the stockpile to an off-shore coal loader some 5,000 feet into the sea and grant, to the company a mining lease for these purposes. The cost of the project to Clutha is estimated at $80m. The entire proposal reeks of privileged treatment of an overseas-owned company, abandonment of public interest and the wholesale sell-out of bargain basement prices of Australia's  high  grade coking coal resources. Responsibility for all matters pertaining to New South Wales coal resources is vested jointly in the Commonwealth and State governments through the Joint Coal Board which is constituted by virtue of the authority of the Coal Industry Acts enacted by both governments. The powers and functions of the Board are stated in  identical  sections of the respective Coal Industry Acts. One significant function is in the following terms in the Act: 
To ensure that coal produced in the Stale is distributed and used in such manner, quantities, classes, and grades and at such prices as are calculated best to serve the public interest and secure the economical use of coal and the maintenance of essential services and industrial activities. 
Rather than fulfil these obligations under the Coal Industries Act, the Commonwealth has abandoned its responsibility. It is precisely because the Commonwealth has starved the New South Wales Government for adequate funds to finance construction of coal loading facilities that the Premier of that State has gone cap in hand to an overseas industrialist for financial support. No financial assistance for the provision of coal loading facilities has been provided by the Commonwealth since 1961, 10 years ago. when the New South Wales Coal Loading Works Agreement was approved. 
Both the Commonwealth and the Government of New South Wales must share responsibility for the Clutha Development Pty Ltd Act Under its provisions, Clutha, the company controlled by the American multi-millionaire, Daniel Ludwig, said to be one of the world's richest and most powerful industrialists, expects to earn a minimum of $90m a year for the next 20 years exporting high grade coking coal from the Burragorang Valley in New South Wales. The State Government on the other hand has settled for a rate of royalty on the coal carried by Clutha's private railway which is expected to net only S5m a year over the next 20 years. Whereas Clutha's profits may rise by increases in the export price of coal or by world inflation, the royalty rate is fixed under the terms of the Agreement and cannot be altered for 20 years. That is to say, Clutha will gain a bonanza of $ 1,800m while the New South Wales Government has settled for royalty revenue of $100m over the next 20 years. Clearly public interest has been recklessly jettisoned and betrayed by a money-starved Government for the traditional handful of silver. 
However, the $100m revenue which the State Government is expected to receive over 20 years is offset by the fact that the New South Wales Government Railways loses to Clutha the business of transporting the coal some 40 miles from the pit top to the coast stockpile. According to the Institute of Transport in Australia the loss in railway revenue will amount to some $70m, so the net gain to the State may well be limited to something like $30m over 20 years. For the price of an offshore coal loader and the return of a mere pittance we are relinquishing a rich Australian heritage. International experts and the Joint Coal Board in its report of 1968- 69 contend that known reserves of good quality coking coal are such that a world shortage is imminent. This ravenous pillage of the Illawarra coal seam can in the foreseeable future place in jeopardy the future of the great Port Kembla steel industry which may be without sufficient coal for its own essential processing. It is the very height of folly to conclude this Agreement with Clutha before the Bureau of Mineral Resources concludes and analyses the results of its survey of Australia's coal reserves currently being undertaken. 
The Commonwealth has both a prerogative and an obligation to ensure that Australian coal is exported at reasonable rather than give-away prices. According to the  Chairman  of the Joint Coal Board,  Mr Hartnell,  our coal is underpriced. He said: 
United States export coal was sold for between $8 and $9 per ton freight on board more than Australian coal, and freight rates from the United States are dearer. 
At current rates on the production of 8 million tons a year Clutha will earn  $96m  per annum. If the  Chairman  of the Joint Coal Board is right and the price should be $8 a ton higher, an extra S64m a year would be earned by Clutha. That is, the income per annum would increase from $96m to $160m. In other words, the people's assets are being undersold to the extent of $64m a year. Clutha is not only the black blot on the Australian landscape; it is the stain on the nation's pride. Remember, the people's share of the bonanza is a paltry S5m a year. Let me remind honourable members that the Japanese 'Commerce Daily' lists Australia as the country which is receiving the lowest price of 11 supplying countries. Whereas the weighted average annual price is SUS20.16 a metric ton, Australia gets $US14.96 a metric ton, such is the state of underselling of our coal. 
The favoured treatment given to this company is unprecedented in Australia's history. It is awarded rich coal leases in Sydney's main water catchment area when all others are denied that opportunity. It was allowed to purchase the Oakdale State coal mine from the New South Wales Government. A special Act of Parliament was passed so that Clutha can build its private railway line to its private port to enable coal to be exported in its privately owned bulk carrier ships, which will probably have the effect of rendering obsolescent other ships in the Australian trade. Crown land is rented to the company for 50c an acre per annum. Any privately held land required by Clutha is to be resumed for it by the Government at the ValuerGeneral's valuation and can be either held or sold by the company without restriction and at the company's discretion. Appeal provisions in the Mining Act and Public Works Act which enable citizens to lodge objections are waived under the Clutha Development Pty Ltd Agreement Act so that citizens are denied traditional civic rights. The Clutha scheme is exempt from the Local Government Act provisions for rating, zoning, building ordinances and stamp duty. The Commonwealth has already exempted the off-shore area where the loader is to be installed from any Commonwealth off-shore minerals legislation which may be enacted in the future. It has done this by giving the State Government an unqualified assurance that it will not issue any off-shore mining titles which would interfere with Clutha's lease. 
The worst feature of all is the fact that the project threatens the environment of one of the most attractive coastal areas in New South Wales. On the Bulli escarpment some 1,300 feet above the sea, the world's biggest coal stockpile will be located. This stockpile will serve an offshore loader rated at 4,000 to 6,000 tons per hour and geared to the export of 12 million tons of coal per annum. It is estimated that the stockpile will stand 30 feet high, cover at least 22 acres and accommodate up to 200,000 tons of washed coal. Some engineers speculate that a stockpile capable of feeding the loader at the maximum rate and capable of meeting all eventualities would cover as much as 66 acres. While $2m is being spent on examining the engineering feasibility of the scheme, the possibility that the environment will be desecrated and people will be contaminated by coal dust is completely neglected. Some 60,000 people living on the coastal plateau below the stockpile will be subjected to a perpetual deluge of coal fines spread by the prevailing winds. Already the Mayor of Wollongong has publicly advocated that the coastal community of Coalcliff should be abandoned to the coal industry and the community re-located.- A PostmasterGeneral's Department telephone repeater station at Maddens Plains could easily become one of the first casualties of coal dust contamination from the stockpile. Already the PMG research laboratory is examining the cost of relocating this facility, said to be one of the most important communication units in the State. The replacement cost of this station, which carries most telephone traffic between Sydney, Wollongong, Melbourne and Canberra and all the television circuits, could run into a 6-figure amount. 
Some of the most attractive beaches and bushland areas on the eastern coast of Australia, which serve the recreational needs of Sydney and Wollongong, are threatened with industrialisation. Coal dust and spillage, combined with discharged bilge water from the ballast tanks of huge tankers, will turn the area into an industrial slum. The water run off from the stockpile must end up either in the sea or in Sydney's water supply. Undesirable features will include smoke and soot emissions, noise from loading facilities, increased traffic - already coal trucks are a nuisance in the area - and the installation of customs and fuel facilities. Clearly the price is too much for the community to pay. Can a State enjoy immunity as a party principle to the injurious development of an off-shore area? ls the 
Clutha Development Pty Ltd Agreement Act valid without Commonwealth complementary legislation? Eminent legal opinion has it that States have neither property in nor constitutional control over territorial waters be'.ow the low tide mark. Does the New South Wales legislation involve an assertion of competence beyond the powers of the Government of New South Wales? 
The Commonwealth should take the initiative in establishing a CommonwealthState commission to investigate all the ramifications of the Clutha deal. For that matter, the whole shabby deal in my view justifies the establishment of a royal commission. The Commonwealth should move to safeguard Australia's coking coal reserves and ensure that a fair price is obtained for exports. The pollutive effects of the project and the environmental destruction which seems imminent in one of the most attractive coastline areas of Australia, to which visitors go from all over the world, should become one of the first investigatory tasks of the new Commonwealth Office of the Environment, if this Government is ever going to demonstrate a decent sense of priorities to the point of getting this Commonwealth Office of the Environment off the ground. Adequate funds should be made available to expand the publicly owned coal loading facilities at Port Kembla and to upgrade the State railway system to link that port with all coal production units in the Illawarra region. 
Concern about this matter in the region is such that I believe that the citizenry and the workers are not prepared to contribute to the destruction of their own environment. If this Government and the New South Wales Government fail to face up to the great responsibilities which are involved, I reliably speculate that the trade unionists and workers in the area may abstain from making their employment capacities available in such a way as would cause the ruination of this district and bring about the destruction and pillage of Australia's coking coal resources, said to be among the best in the world and said to be in short supply. This is disgraceful legislation. The Commonwealth Government is a party to it, and I believe that it requires urgent Commonwealth action. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration,  upon notice: 
Which countries have immigration agreements with Australia. 
In respect of each agreement what provisions apply regarding (a) annual intake of migrants, and (b) migrants' (i) employment classification (ii) age (iii) education and (iv) health. 
Which non-European countries have sought immigration agreements with Australia and what was the result in each case. 
How many immigrants from non-European countries have been admitted to Australia over each of the last 10 years and from which countries did they migrate. 
In respect of which country's migrants does Australia offer the benefits of the assisted passage scheme. 
Does the assisted passage scheme apply to immigrants migrating from non-European countries. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. We, the citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia humbly pray that the Government of this Country will 
Ban the shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes (No animal can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale as exists under present legislation). 
Ban the export of all kangaroo products from Australia. 
Prevent the extinction of the red kangaroo. (The red kangaroo has been reduced to a numerical level where its survivalis in jeopardy). 
Institute a scientific survey of the kangaroo population. 
Establish large national parks of good quality land as major tourist attractions. 
Take control of and be completely respon sible for the management of Australia's wildlife. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the nextfive years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will  disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. I refer to yesterday's decision by the Sydney Water Board to increase water rates by 9 per cent. Will this increase apply to industry and to the 3 million people who Jive in the SydneyWollongong region, bringing hardship and inflationary effects in its train? Since the Board's financial crisis stems from this Government's high interest policy, can the increase in water rates be avoided by a Commonwealth grant? 
I would like to speak briefly also about the States Grants (Pre-School Teachers Colleges) Bill. I must confess that I was intrigued to hear the reference to the former Prime Minister, the late Ben Chifley, in this connection as no-one has to make any apology for the great interest displayed in a very practical way by his government. One should not talk in retrospect on occasions like this, but I would remind the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  that it was the Chifley government that was responsible for the introduction of the post-war reconstruction training scheme and which laid the plans for the extension of the university scholarships scheme to secondary education. I would remind the honourable gentleman also that for years after I came to this Parliament in 1955 I heard the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, ridi culing the idea that the Commonwealth had any obligation in educational matters at all. Invariably he invoked the Constitution as an impregnable barrier which would prevent the Commonwealth from playing any part in pre-school, primary, secondary or technical education. 
For that matter, if it had not been for the fact that he went to London and had a scotch on the rocks in the Savoy Hotel with  Sir Keith  Murray, I doubt whether we would ever have had an inquiry into secondary education in Australia. It is to the eternal credit of  Sir Keith  Murray that he was able to persuade the reluctant  Sir Robert  Menzies to interest himself in these matters. I want to remind the House that the original Act - the States Grants (PreSchool Teachers Colleges) Act of 1968 - empowered the Government to make grants of up to $2im to the States for allocation to pre-school organisations for capital projects. This Bill is a consequential one. It is to extend the time in which those grants can be made. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  said that the Bill is aimed at doubling the capacity for the training of pre-school teachers in Australia. One cannot be certain that that declared intention can be fulfilled, for it takes a lot more than buildings to facilitate the doubling of the number of pre-school teachers. Regrettably, even if this is achieved, the demand growth is such that no real progress will be accomplished. The shortage of teachers in pre-school education will be even greater than it was before. The fact is that State Governments have no financial capacity to alleviate this problem of the unavailability of adequate pre-school facilities and opportunities throughout Australia, because they lack the taxing power. This Government, which has the taxing power, up to this point of time has shown no inclination to accept the responsibility to underwrite the States' pre-school education programmes. 
Many matters have to be taken into account besides the capital cost of buildings. There is a need for residential facilities, for scholarships, for equipment and for finance to cover the cost of administration. I was interested to read a Press release on 20th February 1970 made by the then Minister for Labour and National Service on this subject. He gave an indication of the results of a study of the pattern of child care centres throughout Australia. It contained remarkable revelations. For example, it revealed that 14,000 children attended 555 registered full time day centres in Australia. The Minister said that this was consistent with the statistician's findings that 18,500 children were in parttime or full-time centres. The release went on further to say that 200,000 mothers in the work force had 250,000 children under 6 years of age. Yet only 7 per cent of these children were in child minding centres. One wonders what is happening to the rest of them and about the extent to which, they may be neglected or relegated to the care of people who may not want them. 
When we go on to look at more of these impactive statistical facts we start to get an even greater shock. New South Wales has 252,000 children in the 2 to 5 year age group. There are 17,000 of these attending pre-school education facilities; that is, some 7 per cent of all those eligible are having the benefits of pre-school education. It is remarkable that in the United Kingdom, which is hard pressed and which is said to be in a bad way, on its knees, the Plowden report is to be implemented, and the Government is working steadfastly towards the end of achieving an enrolment of 90 per cent of the eligible children for pre-school education. Sweden, we are told, has 56 per cent of eligible children enrolled. In the Australian Capital Territory 36 per cent of eligible children are enrolled and 78 per cent of the 4 year olds are enrolled. That is the position in this privileged part of Australia, which I do not quibble about. It ought to be an effective guide to the Government of the kind of thing that should be done throughout the rest of Australia. In Victoria not 36 per cent of those eligible are enrolled but only 17 per cent. In South Australia only 14 per cent, and in New South Wales only 7 per cent of the quarter of a million children eligible for pre-school education are enrolled. To bring New South Wales up to the standard of the Australian Capital Territory, 3,500 extra teachers will be needed, according to the authorities. 
When one looks at the extent to which pre-school education is subsidised per head of population one will again see in a vivid way the disparities that operate throughout this country - a state of affairs for which this Government clearly must accept responsibility. If it accepts any responsibility about this matter, if it is to underwrite, surely its job is to ensure that its responsibilities are discharged in full. In the Australian Capital Territory we subsidise pre-school education to the extent of $1.82 per head of population. In Victoria the subsidy is 57c, in South Australia it is 45c, in Western Australia it is 21c, in Queensland it is 8c, and in poor old New South Wales it is 6c per head. That is to say, assistance is given in the Australian Capital Territory at a rate that is 30 times higher than that in New South Wales. If that sounds like an equitable arrangement or anything approaching justice, it could have fooled me. lt often costs more in New South Wales to send a child to kindergarten than it does to send a student to university. Whereas the cost of a 3 year arts course in the University of New South Wales averages $6.80 a week, charges at most kindergartens in that State are between $5 and $10 a week. 
Many of these kindergartens are little more than child minding centres with hardly any educational content. The incidence of untrained staff is extremely high, and buildings and equipment are often inadequate. According to the Bureau of Census and Statistics, over 100,000 Australian women are willing to go to work and want to go for economic reasons, but many are prevented from doing so through the cost or unavailability of pre-school education facilities. I am not advocating by any means that women should have to go to work but it is an economic necessity for many women at the present time, and that this is the barrier to their employment is a very unsatisfactory state of affairs. How can a woman with, say, 2 children find the incentive to go to work if she has to pay $20 a week for the care of her children at a pre-school education centre? Nevertheless in many areas there are long waiting lists and many parents have to book children into various types of centres months and even years ahead if they want to get them accommodated. 
What has happened to the announcement made by the Government in February last year that the Commonwealth would set up a network of child minding centres throughout Australia? In any case what sort of quality characteristics will these centres assume if they ever get off  the  ground? Will they be staffed by trained personnel? Where will the staff come from? Will there be sufficient trained in the centres to be established under this legislation? Will these centres compare with the excellent centres conducted by the Lady Gowrie organisation, the Kindergarten Unions and such bodies as the Sydney Day Nursery Association? Will they be child minding centres or centres properly oriented to education? 
Pre-school education, as the honourable member for Fremantle said, is the Cinderella of the education system. Predominantly it is the children of middle class families who have the benefit of pre-school education. This is certainly the case in Sydney. To the extent to which Sydney has these centres, they are substantially located on the northern side of the harbour bridge, and out in the southern suburbs and in the western sprawl it is a matter of catch as catch can. There is very little public financial support for these centres and so the families have to make very substantial sacrifices if they want their children to get the benefit of pre-school education. Economic barriers stand in the way of conferring these benefits on the impoverished social group not only in Sydney but in almost every part of Australia. 
I would like to know what is this Government's philosophy about this total question of pre-school education. Does it think that pre-school education is good or does it think that it is bad? Is it regarded as a necessary and essential prelude to primary education? If the answer is in the affirmative, we can start to realise how the Government is letting the side down and how much more it ought to be doing instead of talking about a miserable, infinitesimal sum of $2im which is taking years and years to spend. What is the Government's view about whether or not pre-school education ought to be in the public system? Should expansion of pre-school education be undertaken under the umbrella of the public education system, or should it be left to private enterprise? We see the Blue Wren chain of pre-school facilities and the Donald Duck system in some parts of the world. This is a great commercial activity. What is the Government's intention? Does it want to thwart and stop this exploitation of the educational needs of children, or does it want to make it a part of the education system? 
Apparently there has been no application of thought to the important matter of who should meet the cost of teacher training and of teacher salaries and the capital cost of buildings and equipment. Apparently this has never been sorted out properly. Who pays the bill? Should this educational opportunity be available to families with or without direct charge, or should it be a charge on the public purse and based on the principle of capacity to pay through the utilisation of the uniform taxation system, which meets so many other educational requirements? In the preschool education system what is to be the role of the community, industry, local government authorities and State and Federal governments? I would like the Minister or some spokesman for the Government to indicate that some thought has been given to any of these matters. When will a blueprint of objectives be formulated, propagated and practically supported by the Government of Australia? 
The principal Act which this Bill seeks to amend provides up to $2im for capital works. In New South Wales this provides for a new college for the Sydney Day Nursery Association and a new wing on the old college of the Kindergarten Union. In every other State one institution is assisted. There are the teacher training buildings. The big question is: Teachers for where; teachers for what? To where will these teachers go when they are trained? The organisations which I have mentioned are struggling to meet the SO per cent wage increase granted to pre-school teachers. These organisations can do little about injecting capital into kindergarten building or into a programme providing a network of buildings that are required throughout the Commonwealth, or employing the army of trained teachers who are desperately needed throughout Australia 
Up to date industry has done practically nothing in this regard. In fact, according to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  only 2 registered full day child care centres have been provided by employers in Australia. The aims of most of the organisations - the beneficiary organisations which are listed in this Bill; and I have checked through their objectives - involve the following factors: They want pre-school experience for all. So far many of these organisations such as the kindergarten unions and so on are intent on meeting the needs of the socially deprived and afflicted. They are unable to spread their service throughout the region or the country at large. They want pre-school experience for all 3 to 5-year olds whose parents require it and acceptance of Government responsibility for the teacher training programme. They want the Government to meet the full salaries of all trained teachers who graduate from a recognised college. Further, they want capital grants to establish more centres. It probably costs a minimum of $30,000 or $40,000 to set up a centre for some 25 children. Is this to be relegated to young communities where young couples are confronted with paying off their homes and establishing their families? 
The kindergarten unions want grants for kindergarten teachers college administration and supervision and scholarships or bursaries for students. They point out some of the problems. There is a desperate shortage of staff and accommodation; there are inadequate salaries; and some States have no awards at all covering this field. In some States there are terribly ad hoc arrangements. Some States have no legislation covering pre-school education centres. Further, there is an incredibly high staff wastage rate because there is more attractive employment outside and as a result there are very limited promotion opportunities. Overseas there are very significant new trends in this field. There is a change in emphasis from the social development of a child in kindergartens and pre-school centres to the intellectual development of children. There is the development of the concept that disadvantaged children should receive compensatory pre-school training. As I mentioned earlier the United Kingdom is giving effect to the Plowden report that pre-school training should be available to all children over 3 years of age. In the near future the authorities in the United Kingdom expect to attain a 90 per cent response. 
In the United States of America under Project Head Start', the Economic Opportunity Act 1964 provides pre-school oppor tunities plus medical and dental care as well as proper nutrition if necessary. That legislation also provides for a full year compensatory education programme plus an 8 weeks sum up programme for children prior to entering full time education. The Federal Government of the United States meets up to 80 per cent of the expanse in any community and in poor communities it meets the entire cost. I want to say that for a long period the Opposition has declared its intention of doing something more useful in this regard. 
I conclude by saying that the Opposition stands for this: For Government responsibility for education, including the obligation to ensure that pre-school education is available for every child; The Commonwealth to establish an Australian preschool commission to define and examine regularly the aims of pre-school education and to recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to ensure that pre-school centres are located, staffed and equipped on the basis of needs and priorities. Only with the implementation of this kind of programme in which the Commonwealth takes the initiative can this problem which has been neglected so much and suffered by so many, be effectively overcome. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has highlighted the very essence of this debate, especially by drawing attention to the great virtues of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  One wonders why the Government is not prepared to show enthusiasm for these important matters which have been raised. We are coming to the end of a parliamentary session. Soon after Parliament resumes for the Budget session a new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement will be introduced. It will be effective for a 5-year period. It will have enormous significance for the people of Australia and for anybody to be so satisfied as to feel that the present Agreement represents everything that is desired in the housing field shows a presumption beyond understanding. 
The honourable member for Reid has moved an amendment which underlines some very necessary and desirable injections into the Australian housing programme. For example, he has proposed that there be an appropriate instrumentality to bring about co-operation and co-ordination between the States and local government in respect of housing. The Opposition contends that there is a fragmented approach to housing at the present time, that we are obtuse and that we have diffused the responsibility for the enormous variety of facets which are involved. If I had time tonight I would dearly love to enunciate the wide range of headings over which the United States housing authority prevails. It has brought under one umbrella responsibility for the wide range of problems in the housing field. Is the Opposition to be criticised for contending that there should be an authority to ensure that planning authorities are established and developed throughout Australia? The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has told us of the problems which result from inadequate planning. Is the Opposition to be criticised for contending that lands vested in the States or the Commonwealth should be retained for public purposes and that private rights to such land should be limited to leasehold? 
We all know that land is often valueless until it is aggrandised and upgraded by the expenditure of public money, and the Australian Capital Territory is a case in point. The Australian Capital Territory in the days of King O'Malley and others was a hinterland. We found it; we came to the Molonglo River and subsequently we acquired the land for the airport, the railway and the roads and poured money into the Territory. Canberra is a great city, a city to be emulated not only in this country but by the world. The Crown land of this country was upgraded because we expended public money on it. So when the honourable member for Reid contends on behalf of the Opposition that we should retain this land for the benefit of the people because it will be valueless until we bring services to it, he is saying something that is inspired, idealistic and not deserving of criticism. He wants the Government to accept some responsbility for the identification of new cities. The honourable member for Chifley, the honourable member for Robertson and some honourable members from the other side of the House have told us that the cities are bulging and polluted, that people travel hours and hours to and from work in these rotten contaminated environments. Ought we not be prepared to take this problem by the throat and show the initiative which characterised our forebears who did establish new cities? Where are the new cities that have been established in the last 2 decades while this Government has been in power? 
The Opposition wants to see the elimination of slums and substandard housing. That is one of the proposals in the amendment. The Opposition wants to assist the appropriate public instrumentalities to carry out a comprehensive urban improvement and development programme. Under the constitutional arrangements that prevail, these instrumentalities are unable to provide the services and to resume areas that are required because of the inadequacy of funds available to them. Let me take a case in point. In the 'Sydney Morning Herald' today, and no doubt in other newspayers as well, there is the revelation that the Sydney Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board decided yesterday to increase its rates for water and sewerage by 9 per cent. The 3 million people who live in the great City of Sydney and in the City of Wollongong will be affected by this decision. Enormous increases in rates will take place, 9 per cent being the average. In addition, there will be other increases which have arisen as a result of revaluation of properties. 
Many of the municipalities, we will find, will increase their charges for water, sewerage and drainage by as much as S3 per cent or 54 per cent. Every water, sewerage and drainage authority in the capital cities faces the problem that more people require sewerage services today than 20 years ago. The Opposition included a provision in the amendment in recognition of the fact that these instrumentalities and the State governments from which they derive have inadequate money-raising capacities. This Government is usurping those revenueraising capacities. Very often it is spiriting the money away for its own purposes. The things which are near and dear to the people are often being relegated elsewhere. 
All honourable members, regardless of what side of the Parliament they come from, recognise that the 9 per cent increase in water, sewerage and drainage rates results substantially from the high interest rate policy of this Government. Despite the fact that rates are going up all around Australia there is no preparedness - as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  told me this morning in answer to a question - to make funds available for this purpose. These matters are tied closely to the amendment. The Opposition is not just concerned about making houses available. It is concerned about making homes available and making environments available to people. All honourable members know examples of places in Australia on the outskirts of the great cities such as Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth, where young people often have no choice but to go 10, 12, 17 or even 20 miles out. In my area, which is IS or 20-odd miles from Sydney, people are paying $14,000 for a block of land and they are out on the end of a dusty track. 
As my colleague has said, they pay 13i per cent reducible interest. They are in shackles for the rest of their life for their first mortgage, let alone the second and third mortgages and the hire purchase on their furniture. They are living at the end of the line on a dusty road which becomes a dust bowl in summer and a quagmire in winter. The services are inadequate and often elementary things such as shopping centres are unavailable. They are miles from the railway and schools and there is an inadequacy of bus services. The Government could not care less. The intention of the amendment is to convey to the people of this country that there is an alternative. 
What happens in this Parliament is that periodically we concern ourselves with the business of making money available to a limited number of people who want to spend it on the acquisition of a home, but we do not care very much about the manner in which that money is expended or the kind of product that it buys. This indifference is not emulated in other parts of the world at all. In the United States where the great Housing and Urban Affairs Authority operates and co-ordinates in a contemporary kind of way, they have regard for these things. If the Government is to make public money available to people for housing it ought to get the best possible product for it. But the Government makes money available through the State housing authorities and many other schemes such as war service homes, the homes savings grants and even the building societies. Thirty per cent of housing authority money goes to the building societies today. 
The Government does not care what kind of product that money buys. It is possible to do something about this situation. In the United States the owner of a large piece of land - some hundreds or possibly thousands of acres - could go along to an authority and say: T want to develop this land.' The authority would say to him: 'We will give you assistance which in the long run will benefit the people who are going to live in the houses which you develop. But there is a criterion which you have to fulfil. The development must measure up to planning and architectural concepts. It must measure up in terms of the provision of services and community facilities. Equally importantly, you, as one developer who will get the benefit of low interest or cheap money, will have to show your capacity and willingness to pass on that low interest money.' 
This can be done in Australia. It can be done in regard to private developers. The Government can say: 'If you measure up to these standards which we consider to be the birthright of every Australian, you can have access to the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia. If you go and build a lovely town or city on your land and pass on this Shangri-la at advantageous rates of interest then you will get financial backing and support through the Development Bank.' But the Government is using public moneys, sometimes letting racketeers and exploiting entrepreneurs take over and bleed the people dry so that in the end they finish up with a second grade product and their life is purgatory rather than what it ought to be. 
The Opposition does not accept that proposition. I outlined what is done in the United States for private developers. The Opposition feels that this ought to be done in regard to the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. The Government does not have to dictate anything to the States, which have sovereign rights. State governments are made up of good men and true who have regard for public welfare. If the Government gives them a decent enticement and if it shows that it has some ideals and objectivity about the public interest it will find that every Premier and State Housing Minister will respond. The Government has the prerogative under section 96 of the Constitution to make funds available. It can set down the conditions upon which the funds will be made available. It is time this was done. It is time that the Government made its allocations in regard to the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement with the objective of achieving standards. 
I have not said any of the things that I intended to say tonight. I wanted to talk about how the Government had destroyed the Housing Agreement and the wonderful concept that the Chifley Government had. I do not want to be retrospective about it, but it is marvellous to think that decades ago a Labor government had ideals that cannot even be comprehended these days by people in the Liberal Party and by the Country Party jackals. They have not got this decent concern about people. They have destroyed the wonderful idea of the rental rebate system which provided for low repayment rates for people who purchased homes, which rates were geared to people's income so that we could fulfil in this country the United Nations objective that people ought not to be spending more than 20 per cent or one-fifth of their income on housing. Honourable members opposite do not care what the people pay any more. If they have a look at the housing commission reports, the details of which I hold in my hand, they will find that the average housing commission applicant in Australia receives an income which does not enable him to pay the rental or to pay the repayment cost of a housing commission home. Many other important principles which I would dearly love the opportunity to outline here this evening have been destroyed by this Government. 
In conclusion, I want to tell the Government that it ought to think earnestly in this period that remains beween now and the adoption of the next Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. What it has done for decades now is not good enough. It is conceptually primitive, even sterile. There are many marvellous things that this Government could do over the ensuing 5- year period. Its members can read the books in the Library and avail themselves of the research facilities here to see what is being done in other countries. Let us not become more second grade than we are about this matter. Let us do what we can to encourage Australians to fulfil their birthright and live in a decent environment where their children can grow up and have the opportunity to live a decent life. 
I confess from the start that I have made no extensive study of this Bill, but I am interested in clause 3, which pertains to academic salaries. I note with approval that salaries are to be increased and that the increase resulted from a review of salaries which followed the 6 per cent national wage case increase. I note also that the salaries are at what 1 regard to be a fairly reasonable level with professors getting $15,264, associate professors $12,593 and so on down to a lecturer who starts on a salary of $6,697 and progresses to $9,286. I wish to comment on the very basis of this legislation which provides for these salaries. The Government has decided to support the new levels of academic salaries and to contribute towards the cost its usual share of SI for every $1.85 provided from fees, plus State grants. It seems to me to be a fairly iniquitous basis for the payment of academic salaries. The extent to which the Commonwealth is prepared to underwrite these provisions is geared to the extent to which fees are struck for university students. 
One could fairly interpret this situation as indicating that the State governments could well have a vested interest in keeping fees high because every time the State raises $1.85 by way of fees or in any other way it gets $1 from the Commonwealth 
Government. On the other hand, the Commonwealth might have a vested interest in keeping fees down because it is the Commonwealth, more than any other authority, which has an obligation and a prerogative to meet the cost of fees through scholarships. If this is the case, and I think it is clearly the case, we have these contradictory forces pulling against one another. I do not know whether recent increases in fees were supported by the Commonwealth Government or whether they were instigated by the State governments, but I know that their effect has been to attract considerable financial assistance for academic salaries. I do not think the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  would deny that fact. Fees have gone up to an enormous extent and as a result the degree to which those increases in academic salaries are to be supported by the Commonwealth has risen quite dramatically. I want to express my displeasure with the basis for this legislation. Recently the former Minister for Education and Science supplied me with an answer to a question which 1 asked about these and other things. My question, number 277, in part was: 
Which universities and university colleges increased fees to take effect in 1970, and what was the increase in each case? 
J would not dare to give an account of this question in any detailed way because I was provided with an answer which comprised 6 or 7 pages detailing faculty courses where fees had been increased in 1970. Compared with 1969 they had increased by very large amounts of money. For example, a Sydney University arts pass course increased from 1969 to 1970 by some $312. An economics pass course at Sydney University increased by $210. And so the answer goes on covering faculties in every university in Australia. Most fee increases in 1970 compared with fees in 1969 were in the vicinity of $200 to $300. Some were even in excess of $300. 1 hate to think that this might be happening because of the provisions of this legislation which provides that the extent of the Commonwealth's contribution to academic salaries relates to the amount of fees raised from students. 
I want to make the point that it would not cost a large amount of money to eliminate fees altogether. Estimates of the amount vary. We are told that fees represent about 2.5 per cent of the total running costs of universities. It was not long ago that an answer was given to the effect that it would cost a miserable infinitesimal $14m a year to eliminate fees altogether. If that is the case I think fees should be eliminated. I fail to understand why this country is not trying to keep abreast of the trend in other parts of the world. When I was in Canada in 1966 I learnt that a number of Provinces took the view that academics should be paid a wage to learn their profession, just the same as a boilermaker, carpenter or fitter and turner gets a wage while he is undergoing his apprenticeship. Why should we uphold an attitude which places an economic barrier to young people who desire to fulfil their academic potential? We have surely reached that stage now. The fact of the matter is that many young people in this country are unable to go on to university when they are qualified to do so because of the fee structure operating in universities. Such a structure does not operate when people go off to learn a trade. It does not apply to girls learning to be hairdressers or shorthand typists. They can get a job and do their technical course. However, when we come to professions taught at universities, one has to pay a high fee. 
I think the basis of the legislation is absolutely absurd and in regard to clause 3 - I take this opportunity to make the point the Minister if he has not recognised it before should do so now and act upon his understanding - that State governments have this vested interest in keeping fees high and will maintain this interest so long as this Government perpetuates an arrangement which means that the Commonwealth's contribution to academic salaries depends to a large degree upon the extent to which students are taxed for fees. I think we have identified a matter of very great significance. I know that the fees for some 300 faculty courses were increased last year. A survey was conducted by a university students' organisation recently into 34 courses. It established that the fees for 25 of these courses rose over a 19 year period at an incredible rate and at a rate which was much faster than average earnings, which placed these courses out of the reach of people. I ask the Minister to take this matter into account because  I  believe the whole basis of the legislation is absurd and inequitable. As it stands at the moment it provides an incentive to State governments to put universities beyond the reach of many young people in this country. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What is the value of F111 spare parts at present located in Australia. 
When were these spare parts brought to Australia. 
Are unwanted spare parts being returned to the United States. 
If so, (a) what is the value of the spare parts being returned and (b) is the Commonwealth to be credited with their purchase value and transportation costs. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When will the Government introduce its Employment Training Scheme for Persons Displaced by Technological Change which his predecessor announced on 23rd March 1971. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the. estimated number of kangaroos slaughtered each year for the meat and fur market. 
ls the preparation and packaging of kangaroo meat carried out under conditions conducive to the provision of a disease-free product capable of being safely consumed by humans and pets. 
What regulations govern the preparation of kangaroo meat 
What was the (a) tonnage and (b) value of (i) canned and (ii) uncanned kangaroo meat (A) consumed in Australia and (B) exported during each of the last 5 years. 
ls he able to say which countries ban the import of kangaroo meat, and what is the stated reason for the ban in each case. 
Are there known cases where kangaroo meat has been infected by salmonella; if so, what are the details. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. When will the Government implement the undertaking given 18 months ago at the opening of the Senate election campaign to establish pre-school child minding centres throughout Australia? Has the matter been the subject of consultation with the States? If so, what has been the response? Has agreement been reached and on what basis is the scheme to proceed, if in fact it is to proceed? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of -Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XX11/ A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits ' the use in international armed conflict of any chemical "agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed foi their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in  the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there are known cases where persons who are not Aborigines have obtained prospecting rights over large areas of Aboriginal Reserves and subsequently sub-let these rights to others. 
If so, did this occur in the case of the Adelaide Lady and the uranium field discovered by Queensland Minerals. 
Does this practice have the approval of the Government. 
asked the Minister for 
Housing, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Prince Philip Prize for Australian Design 1969 was awarded to Transtar Villas (Australia) Pty Ltd, for the design and manufacture of a complete housing system based on reinforced plastics. 
Is this product considered to be economically, structurally and aesthetically suitable for Australian conditions. 
Would the large scale production of this transportable and expandable dwelling with its built-in thermal barrier and other unique features contribute to the alleviation  of  accommodation shortages at present sustained by large numbers of university students, aged people, Aborigines and persons engaged in employment in remote parts of the country. 
What evaluation of this product has been undertaken by the Department of Housing to determine its suitability for these purposes. 
Will any special encouragement be given to the company to assist in further research, development and production. 
The special health needs of the Aboriginal people featured very significantly in the planning of the Alice Springs hospital. In its report the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works has recommended that a bed population ratio of 6 to 1,000 be adopted for non-Aboriginal patients and that this ratio should be doubled to 12 to 1,000 for Aboriginal patients. That in itself shows the special need in this area. However, I feel there are other special factors about this matter which deserve some emphasis in the short time available to me today. It is also proposed that 50 paediatric beds be provided for the particular needs of Aboriginal children. Moreover, the Committee in its report went on to draw attention to the important need to provide not only an adequate hospital at Alice Springs but also back-up services in the regions from which Aboriginals come. The Committee was intent on making the point that this was the first line of defence and that unless this was done great success would not be attained in alleviating the health conditions which many Aboriginal people experience. 
I think all members of the Committee were greatly perturbed to learn of the increased incidence of Aboriginal infant mortality. We were told that in 1966 the Aboriginal infant mortality rate bad reached its peak when it rose to 215 per 1,000. There has been great progress since that time and in 1969 Aboriginal infants in Central Australia were dying at the rate of 89 per 1,000. But to the Committee's dismay, Reverend J. Downing, the minister of the United Church in the Northern Territory, who is acknowledged by all to be a dedicated specialist in his field, expressed the view that the Aboriginal infant mortality rate in Central Australia had doubled in the last year. I regard that as a very important statement coming from such a significant person. Other factors were revealed to us which should give great concern. For example, the 201 -bed hospital at Alice Springs has had on occasions 240 patients. We were told that there are occasions when 2 children are accommodated in one bed in the paediatric ward. We were later told that on occasions 4 Aboriginals children, if I am not mistaken, were accommodated in one large oxygen tent. 
We were told that the rate of cross infection was incredibly high, almost unprecedentedly high. So high was the rate of cross infection that, according to Sister Gilbertson, the cross infection rale resulted in a period that followed October 1969 in 116 children being cross infected with chickenpox. She unequivocally expressed the view that one carrier of chickenpox had brought this infection into the hospital and that others in the hospital caught it and suffered as a consequence. All of us here would be alarmed and disturbed if this were to happen to our own children. We would be alarmed if, when we sent a child to hospital for a tonsilectomy operation, an enormous incidence of cross infection occured at that hospital and that child became infected. 
Many reasons contribute to this unhappy situation. But, to a large extent, it results from the inadequacy of the hospital and the fact that the hospital is not divided properly into small sized wards to facilitate the segregation of people. We were told that serious language problems exist. Aboriginal dialects are not understood by sufficient people in the hospital including doctors and nurses. As a result, very real difficulties arose. The Reverend Downing said that, of every SO Aboriginal children born in the Northern Territory, 11 will die in early childhood .We were told also that there is a deficiency of personnel, particularly nursing sisters in the Territory in this front line area of defence which is regarded so significantly- 
Yes. In fact, the turnover was at the rate of 300 per cent per annum and, in any case, the number of sisters available was grossly inadequate. As a result, many children who come from the back blocks and from settlements into the hospital contribute to its overcrowding. Clearly, a far more impactive effort will need to be made if this incredibly bad situation is to be alleviated. 
We were told that there was not 1 person in Central Australia properly trained in public health. We wonder why the hospitals are full to overcrowding with cases of gastro enteritis and other similar illnesses; these could be alleviated if public health facilities were installed and provided in these places. So, I express very grave concern about these matters. I recall the Reverend Downing saying that in some fringe communities - he mentioned a place called Finke, but apparently there are many others  -  50 or 100 people live with only one tap, no showers and no toilets. I think that it is to the eternal disgrace of this Government and this country that such an appalling situation has been permitted to prevail for so long- 
Finke. But I am not just talking about Finke. I am talking about central Australia and the neglect of the Aboriginal people there from the standpoint of health. I point to the need to provide proper field services and to attract more sisters to the area. The sisters who appeared before the Public Works Committee were wonderfully dedicated people, as were all the people connected with the workings of the hospital. 
Clearly, sufficient effort has not been made to attract people from the other States. People should be made aware of this problem instead of it being covered up as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  attempted to do in answer to a question the other day. But for my provocation, the Minister would have given the House the impression that there was a decreased incidence of infant mortality throughout the Northern Territory whereas in fact evidence has been put before the Public Works Committee on oath by the Reverend Downing that the infant mortality rate has doubled in the last 12 months. If this situation does not justify the appointment of a royal commission, and if it does not justify the Government shaking off its state of inertia about this matter concerning human beings, nothing does. I am appalled that this situation has been covered up for so long. I believe that a real impact must be made on this problem and that we must get people out in the field. 
The present system operates in an uncoordinated fashion with the Minister for the Interior prevailing on the one hand over so many matters concerning the Northern Territory and with, on the other hand, the Northern Territory Administration and the Director of Native Welfare and his personnel infiltrating into certain spheres of operation there. Then, the Commonwealth Department of Health is responsible for another area of administration, as is the Commonwealth office of Aboriginal Affairs. In many respects, this lays the ground for a first class schemozzle. That might sound a little like a cliche, but it is a lot more than a cliche when the lives of hundreds of young Aboriginal children are involved. The situation would be quite different if they were the children of honourable members. 
We just have not given this matter the kind of attention that it deserves. I will be more gratified to hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory start to speak and think in terms of the humanity in his electorate rather than rub his hands with glee and enthusiasm for the manifestation of some concrete and some bricks and mortar. I will be more impressed when the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth),  the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  and the Minister for the Interior show that they are concerned and stop adopting the placatory attitude that they have adopted. They should commence to outline a blueprint as to the manner in which this problem, which in my view is  a  blot on the Australian landscape, can be assailed and ultimately alleviated. 
I bring these matters to the attention of the House with very great feeling because I have been concerned and actively involved in Aboriginal affairs for many years. I know the demure and tranquil Aboriginal people. I know that they cannot speak sufficiently for themselves. I am appalled that those who have a responsibility to do things on behalf of these Aboriginal people have not carried out their duties more adequately up to this point in time. 
Motion (by  Mr  Chipp) put:. 
That the question be now put. 
The Opposition supports the motion. The college to which the Minister has referred is to cost 2,900,000, and indeed it will be very tangible evidence of the country's concern for Aboriginal education. Having spoken so critically in respect of the previous matter, I am pleased to have the opportunity to pay a tribute with regard to this matter. This will be an excellent facility, and the kind of facility to which any of us would be pleased and proud to send our own children. It is in sharp contrast to the outmoded facility at Darwin - the Kormilda College - although it is gratifying to note that there is some improvement taking place in that area as well. I think that everyone will be pleased that some special effort is being made with regard to the education of Aboriginal people. However, there are some factors which must give rise to concern when we look at the way in which this problem is being approached. One of the things that surprised me during the Public Works Committte hearing was the revelation that compulsory education does not operate in the Northern Territory in respect of Aboriginal people. 
I do not want to reflect on the honourable gentleman in that way, because I find him genuinely concerned about these matters. If I can stimulate his interest and encourage him to be more outspoken about the great injustices done to the Aboriginal people, 1 will take a great delight in doing that, but, as I know the honourable member is not insensitive to these matters, I do not want to do him any disservice in that regard. 
I make the point that, in terms of principle, it is alarming that there is no compulsory education operating in the Northern Territory in respect of Aboriginal people. There is a surprisingly high proportion of people of eligible age undergoing education. All of us were pleased to learn that pre-school education is getting priority in the Territory. I regard that as being of great significance because, when a child gets the advantage of education in the pre-school period, it is a thing that compounds as he goes through his education, and the longer he goes to school the greater the value he derives. Since Aboriginal people have been disadvantaged for so long, it is good to see the emphasis in that direction. 
When we think of the Kormilda College and of the Yirara College at Alice Springs, which is the subject of the present motion, we ought to have regard to the fact that, in contrast to the conditions that prevail in the rest of Australia, the preponderance of young Aboriginal people will be taken away from their family if they desire to undergo higher education, that is, education beyond the age of 12 years. We have some remarkable contradications in Australia. If a person is an old Australian - an Aboriginal- it is the Government's policy to assimilate him, to absorb him, depriving him of his culture. However, if a person is a new Australian, the official policy is to integrate him, that is, to have regard to his cultural characteristics, preserving the ones that are desirable. We are going to assimilate the Aboriginal people. I suppose that, if one deliberately set about a policy of assimilation, one could not go about it more effectively than by arranging to take the children away from their family at a certain age, to take them away from their tribal customs, to take them some hundreds of miles and for some years put them in a place in isolation from their parents. 
This is the kind of thing which the Yirara College in Alice Springs, which is the subject of this proposal, and the Kormilda College in Darwin are doing. If one lives in the back blocks in New South Wales or South Australia or Western Australia the likelihood is that one will be able to travel in a school bus or to ride on a horse or a bike or in a milk van to a regional high school. But this is not the case with Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory. We will not spend that kind of money in the Northern Territory because these children are Aboriginal children. If they were white children we would probably go to the trouble of strategically locating these schools so that the children would not have to be away from their homes for very long. But it is different with Aboriginal children. When they are between the tender ages of 12 and 17 years we will take them from their families and put them in the Yirara College or the Kormilda College. 
When one walks into most clubs in Sydney one sees illustrations of Aboriginals with boomerangs or spears on Aboriginal motifs hanging on the walls or on beer mats. While we exploit this lovely bit of Australiana, we are so intent deliberately to introduce a different programme for Aboriginals which will deprive them of their culture. We will take them away from their tribal traditions. Can honourable members imagine what would happen to a child of 12 years who went away from home for 5 years in order to receive the benefit of an education and then returned to a situation which had not evolved in a compatible way? The gulf between the child and his parents would be widened. In my view, a great deal of this could be minimised. Although I agree that there is a necessity for colleges like the Yirara College and the Kormilda College, in which a very good job is done by devoted and capable people, I still believe that we should not be adopting this attitude in such a switch-throwing way - taking these children away from their mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters and their tribal background and sending them to Alice Springs and Darwin for education. 
I take this opportunity to commend the responsible departments for the very excellent plan which has been produced. It indicates the physical characteristics that are to be provided in the Yirara College. I know that all my colleagues share the hope that, as some 300 Aboriginal children will attend the college, the coffers of the nation will be used to provide a small swimming pool for these children, many of whom might have come from areas where there are lovely rivers or creeks or from coastal areas. To put them in a place like Yirara College without providing them with swimming facilities seems to be pruning things down too much. I think that it would provide some kind of symbol of paying the debt we owe if we were to go a little further and provide swimming facilities. I am pleased that further investigation is being undertaken into that matter. I commend the proposal before the House and hope that the Yirara College will soon become a reality. 
I support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who has moved an amendment to this Bill. The Superannuation Bill is an important Bill. It is a bread and butter issue. It is entitled to receive much more consideration than we will be able to give it in this guillotining process which involves, I think, 20 Bills passing through this House in some 19 hours. For my part, as one who has a very deep interest in the subject of superannuation, I find it necessary to curtail my remarks in a cryptic sort of way. Whether they will turn out to be meaningful in the end is very hard to predict at this point of time. Many of my colleagues would dearly love to say a few words on this Bill. 
The preparation of this Bill can hardly be described as being a dynamic process. On 25th September 1969, which is 20 months ago, in the period preceding the general elections the then Prime Minister first gave notice of his Government's intention to facilitate the preservation of superannuation rights. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  gave the impression that we were in a great hurry to enact this legislation, but 21 years or thereabouts has elapsed since this Government first started to look at this portability question. One feels that a case could be made out for dealing with this matter in a more comprehensive way than the hotch potch way in which it is now being dealt with. 
The Bill is designed to provide portability for a limited number of people. It will certainly do nothing towards making superannuation and its benefits, including portability, available to the vast majority of the Australian people. We are proceeding towards this end very slowly. This evening we are dealing with the Superannuation Bill, which also covers the Provident Fund, and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill. One wonders what the Government's underlying philosophy is on this question of transferability of superannuation from one employer to another - a process known as the preservation of superannuation rights. Has the Government formulated any blueprint or philosophy at all? Has the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  or any df his predecessors in the last 21 years ever sought to rationalise the inequalities inherent in the present ad hoc approach to this question of portability? My own view is that I support portability because it is a safeguard against job obsolescence, which is the kind of thing that is occurring to a very large extent at the present time. Portability facilitates an employee's choice of employment and releases him from employment imprisonment. It provides for mobility of labour, and I believe that there is a very useful by-product in the crossfertilisation of ideas in the Public Service and in industry as well. 
There is an incredibly high incidence of people in the Commonwealth superannuation scheme who are forced to withdraw from the scheme for all kinds of human reasons. The 1968-69 annual report of the Superannuation Board indicates that there were 10,952 withdrawals from the scheme in the year ended June 1967. At that time the number of contributors to the scheme stood at 136,794. Approximately 8 per cent of contributors were required to withdraw from the scheme in that year. Table 9 in the same report refers to the provident Fund. In the year 1968-69 there were 740 resignations from the Provident Fund out of a total of 16,588 contributors. Approximately 5 per cent of contributors had to withdraw from the Provident Fund. These withdrawals and resignations are quite distinct from the very large number of people who ceased to be contributors to the Superannuation Fund or the Provident Fund for reasons of death, of reaching the maximum working age or of invalidity. Of course, it involves a financial loss to everyone concerned. 
How many people have been seriously and adversely affected in schemes other than those which cover the Public Service? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been seeking an answer to this question for some time; but, regrettably, he has not been able to make a lot of progress. On 30th October 1970 he asked the then Treasurer the following question: 
What progress has the Statistician made in collecting statistics on the total number and coverage of superannuation funds in Australia and on the number and occupation of contributors to them . .7 
The then Treasurer replied that the Acting Commonwealth Statistician had advised that it had not been possible to undertake any of the further developmental work required because of heavy demands on resources. So we will hear little more about it. He also said that it had been decided not to include in the 1971 census questions about the numbers of contributors to superannuation schemes. So there is a drought of information about superannuation schemes in the private area, and it seems that the Government just does not care sufficiently to probe in order to ascertain this information by way of the census or in any other way. 
I remind the House that the Insurance Commissioner's report for the year ended December 1969 gave a very serious warning. Sufficient information is in the hands of the Commonwealth Insurance Commissioner to cause him to say that 'an unsatisfactory aspect of superannuation business is the high rate of surrender of sums insured as shown in the following table', and the table indicates that for the 5-year period from 1964 to 1968 superannuation business surrendered represented between 6.2 per cent and 7.1 per cent of the total business in force at the beginning of that period. In 1968 the amount of surrendered business reached $336. 7m, or 7.1 per cent of the total business in force. The Commissioner said: 
The high rate of surrender reflects the apparently high rate of movement of members of many schemes. 
So we have the alarming situation wherein no beneficial by-products from this legislation will flow to the private sectors of industry and commerce. I am gratified to note, as is the Opposition, that there will be some benefit to some sections of the 
Public Service, particularly in cases where there is a transfer of employment from the Commonwealth sphere to the State sphere and through the university system, so far as academics are concerned. But many problems remain. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has very considerable justification. Many people are denied the benefits of the Social Services Act in the long run because they have contributed to superannuation schemes. This is one of the outstanding anomalies. Of course, there are many other anomalies. But I can see that my colleagues who desire to participate in this, debate are becoming anxious. I think that the situation is such that we ought to have a closer look at this question of portability. This is an unsatisfactory way to handle such important legislation. I congratulate the honourable member for Melbourne Ports for proposing that we should refer this question to an appropriate committee so that we can provide universality in the employment field and provide the benefits which flow from superannuation. That there might be a rational superannuation scheme, giving everyone an opportunity to benefit from it, is the great aspiration and hope of the Australian Labor Party. 
asked the Minister-in- 
Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What financial assistance has been given by the Commonwealth to the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is be able to say whether section 8 of the New South Wales Clutha Development Pty Ltd Agreement Act 1970 and consequential provisions in the lease scheduled to the Act stand in serious legal doubt because of the views expressed by Barwick CJ. and Windeyer J. in Bonser v. Lamacchia that the States have neither property in nor constitutional control over territorial waters below the low tide mark. 
Does the Commonwealth have a' prerogative over the off-shore area, the effect of which is to render invalid those provisions and schedules to the Act which purport to vest the prerogative in the Government of New South Wales. 
If the legality of the Act is in doubt, by what process can the matter be clarified and in what way can the Commonwealth assist persons or organisations seeking to restrain the carrying out of the provisions of the Act and of the agreement scheduled thereto, insofar as this involves an assertion of competence beyond the powers of the Government of New South Wales. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that lump sum compensation for industrial incapacity and impairment of health is exempt from income tax while periodical pay ments are not; if so, what are the reasons foi these apparently contradictory attitudes. 
Is the income of retired dusted miners, who are receiving pensions for permanent impairment of health, subject to income tax. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of exempting these pensions from income tax. 
Will he honour the undertaking of his predecessor to review this matter when the relative provisions of the income tax law are next under review. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that payments made for sewerage and water services are tax deductible while payments made for the removal, of effluent and sullage are not? 
If so, is this an anomalous situation? 
Does he maintain that there are strong grounds for arguing that, the anomaly which some persons see in the present law. should be rectified by withdrawing the deduction,- not by extending it? . 
What is the annual cost to revenue of lax deductions on payments for sewerage and water services? 
What would be the estimated annual costto revenue of complete tax deductions on payments for the removal of effluent and sullage? 
Docs the present policy represent a further penalty on people already deprived of the benefits  of sewerage? 
Would the extension of tax deductibility to the cost of effluent and sullage services provide a desirable incentive to householders to contribute to personal and community health through the frequent removal of waste materials form residential and commercial areas? 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the total complement of the police force of the Territory of Papua New Guinea, and how is it deployed. 
Is the force up  to  desirable strength,' if not what additional personnel are required. 
What is the break-up of rank for (a) European and (b) indigenous personnel. 
Is the force equipped with (a) sea-going vessels, (b) helicopters or (c) other aircraft. 
In what circumstances is a dependency to be placed on the Pacific Island Regiment or other units of the defence Services. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What information was sought from coalowning companies by the Buerau of Mineral Resources in its recent survey of Australian coal reserves? 
Did all companies give full co-operation; if not, what are the names of companies which did not co-operate fully and in which particular information areas was co-operation withheld? 
Did Clutha Development Pty Ltd co-operate fully in providing details -of contracts and prices for coal mined, or to be mined, in the Burragorang Valley; if so, what are the details? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What rates of compensation are paid to the civilian victims of Australian military action in Vietnam? 
Do these rates provide adequate compensation? 
Is any review of the present rates to be undertaken? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
The Government of South Vietnam is responsible for all claims for compensation that arise from combat activities of its own and other forces assisting her. The Australian Government meets, on an ex gratia basis, claims by Vietnamese civilians who have suffered loss in consequence of the wrongful act or neglects of members of the Australian force or employees of that force. Compensation is paid by the Australian Government after assessment of liability, entitlement and quantum having regard, in the light of Vietnamese law, to what probably would be paid as a result of litigation between the parties.' Careful regard is given to the adequacy of each claim. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What capital grants or loans have been made available to assist Torres Strait Islanders to participate alone or in joint ventures with Japanese in the pearling industry. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the (a) supply source and (b) the annual tonnage of coking coal which Clutha Development Pty Ltd is permitted to export under the provisions of the New South Wales Clutha Development Pty Ltd Agreement Act 1970 which was assented to on 9th December 1970? 
Will these proposed exports make serious Inroads into the known reserves of coking coal in southern New South Wales and place in jeopardy in the foreseeable future the steel making industry in the Wollongong-Port Kembla region? 
What are the known reserves of good quality coking coal in southern New South Wales. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Have any studies been undertaken to ascertain possible adverse effects on the Maddern Plains telephone repeater station by the offshore coal loader, associated coal stock pile and private railway proposed to be constructed by Clutha Development Pty Ltd in the Burragorang Valley and Coalcliff area of New South Wales? 
If so, would serious and continuing contamination by coal fines render this important communications facility inefficient to the point where its replacement would be necessary? 
What was the capital cost of the Maddern Plains telephone repeater station? 
What telephone and television links are provided through the station? 
What would be the cost of relocating the station if its removal became necessary? 
Would the cost be borne by the Commonwealth or Clutha Development Pty Ltd? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the Infant Mortality Rate for Aboriginal children in Central Australia during the last 12 months? 
Did the rate increase by over 100 per cent compared with the previous Vear; if so, why? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What action is being taken to assist the Brinken and Waigat Aboriginal tribes in the area west of Darwin who are concerned with the intrusion of stock onto their reserve from the adjoining grazing lease held by the Tipperary Land Corporation? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has a request been received from the Brinken and Waigat Aboriginal Tribes for the return of their trial lands in the area west of Darwin? 
If so, what was the nature of the request and what consideration has it received? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether, in butchers' shops at Alice Springs, newspaper wrapping is used for purchases by Aboriginal people and brown or grease proof paper for purchases by others; if so, what action can be taken to end this discrimiation? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are Aboriginal people excluded from hotels in Alice Springs, and some other towns of the Northern Territory; if so, what action can be taken to end this discrimination? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as In duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Development. Can an assurance be given that  Clutha's  exploitation of the South Coast coal seam will not leave the WollongongPort Kembla steel complex without adequate supplies of coal in the foreseeable future? If not, will the Minister take initiatives to prevent the scheme from proceeding? Also, will he support the call for a public inquiry into the Clutha scheme to consider claims that special privilege has been given to this overseas company, that the environment is seriously threatened and that the economics of the scheme deny a fair return to the Australian people? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
ls the Department of Civil Aviation' considering the acquisition of the 93-acre Riverwood golf course. 
If so, for what purpose is the area to be utilised. 
What is the estimated cost of acquisition. 
What is the present planning classification  for  the area, and can he say whether the intended use of the site by the Department violates  the  Planning Scheme of the Bankstown Council - or that of the State Planning Authority. 
Can he also say whether the Bankstown Council hopes to acquire the area for public recreation. 
Was the golf course offered to the Department by Riverwood Golf Course Pty Ltd; if not, on whose initiative was the acquisition first contemplated. 
Will the Department soon have the use of a large area at Bankstown Airport which is at present utilised for barrack-type accommodation by the Air Force. 
If so, what approximate area will become available and when. 
asked the Postmaster 
General, upon notice: 
Are television channels increasing their quota of repeats of the productions of Division 4 and Homicide with a view to stockpiling first release episodes for release in September next. 
If so, does this action violate established attitudes designed to encourage Australian television productions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the complaint made at the 14th Annual Conference of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders that if a white child in the Northern Territory has diarrhoea, Medair is called immediately, but if uri Aboriginal child has diarrhoea, Medair ls not called until the child reached the critical stages. 
ls the Minister able to substantiate the claim. 
If this disrimination is practised, what action can be taken to end it. 
asked the Minister for the  Environment, Aborigines  and the Arts, upon notice: 
Can he say which provisions of the Queensland Aboriginal Affairs Act 1965 are regarded as either oppressive or discriminatory. 
Is be able to say, whether the Act  (a)  subjects all persons on reserves to the direction and discipline of the Director, District Officer Manager, Councillors or other officers of the reserves and (b) vests in the Director the power to move an assisted person, not on  a  reserve, to any reserve in Queensland. 
Is he able to state the estimated number of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders who are subject to this Act 
Can be say what is being done to repeal this Act, and when its repeal is anticipated. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the wage paid to Torres Strait Islanders employed on Thursday Island pearling luggers is $20 per month. 
Are these employees covered by any award or agreement; if so, what are the particulars. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he give the text of the resolution adopted by State Ministers for Local Government at Hobart on 23rd April 1971 concerning the financial needs of local government. 
At which level ot Government have these proposals been considered and with what results. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the proportion of Commonwealth (a) seconday scholarship winners as a percentage of pupils in the fourth form (school certificate year) and (b) tertiary scholarship winners as a percentage of pupils in the sixth form (higher school certificate year) in each school grouped according to (i) State schools, (ii) Roman Catholic schools and (iii) other private schools for (A) the Wollongong area and (B) the rest of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for  the Interior, upon notice: 
Has any land been made available for use by the Gurindji people at Wattie Creek; if so, what conditions apply to its availability. . 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. We, the citizens of the Commonwealth of . Australia humbly pray that the Government of this country will - 
Ban the shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes.(No animal can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale as exists under present legislation). 
Ban the export of all kangaroo products from Australia. 
Prevent the extinction of the red kangaroo. (The red kangaroo has been reduced to a numerical level where its survival is in jeopardy). 
Institute a scientific survey of the kangaroo population. 
Establish- large national parks of good quality land as major tourist attractions. 
Take control of and be completely responsible for the management of Australian wild life. 
Petition received. 
Withdrawal of Troops from Indo-China 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education and Science. Did the Senate of the University of Sydney decide yesterday to increase student fees by an average of $70, or  161  percent, for the 1972 academic year? Is this decision likely to be the catalyst for Australia-wide increases in university fees? Does the Government take a serious view of the rising economic barrier to higher education? If so, will steps be taken to give such financial assistance to universities as will make further increases in fees unnecessary? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say how many (a) doctors and (b) hospital beds there are per thousand people in (i) Australia, (ii) New Zealand, (iii) the United Kingdom, (iv) the United States of America, (v) Canada, (vi) the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, (vii) Common Market countries and (viii) Scandinavian countries. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 - should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to ' 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Last week the Parliament was alerted about the impending upward spiral in the cost of university fees. The Senate of the University of Sydney indicated that fees will increase by 16.6 per cent for the 1972 academic year. In addition there were other early predictions, namely, that the University of Western Australia will increase its fees by 26 per cent and that the University of Queensland will increase its fees by 25 per cent. I raised this matter in the Parliament last Wednesday by way of a question to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  believing that the University of Sydney incident would act as a catalyst for an Australiawide increase in university fees and, indeed, an increase in fees in the whole area of colleges of advanced education and institutes of technology. Of course, in respect of these various types of establishment some people are having difficulty already in meeting the fees involved. 
Surprisingly, the Minister declined to concede that there was any rising economic barrier to higher education. In fact he denied that altogether, and his reply demonstrated that he was suffering from the illusion that the incidence of scholarships was such as to obviate any hardship arising from increased fees. I believe he has failed to take into account that fees are rising at a much more rapid rate than are average earnings. There are many examples to demonstrate this point. For instance, the University of Adelaide arts course fee was 2.5 per cent of average earnings back in 1952 and had risen to 9.7 per cent of average earnings by 1970. Currently, average earnings are rising at a rate of 5 per cent per annum while fees are to increase, as I have already said, by 16.6 per cent in New South Wales, 26 per cent in Western Australia and 25 per cent in Queensland, and other States will be affected to a similar measure. This will be additional to the 50 per cent rise which has taken place over the last 5 years. 
The Australian Union of Students has completed an analysis of costs which revealed this startling fact: A family earning the average Australian income of $4,200 per annum will have to spend in 1972 30 per cent of its income to maintain one student at a university. I confidently and despairingly predict that this will have the effect of exluding thousands of students from universities next year. The economic crisis is now to hit the student campus and the casualties will be from the lower income families. They will be called the 'dollar drop outs' of the 1970s. But the Minister's indifferent attitude contrasts to the attitude of the Opposition which includes in its official policy the following declaration: 
The Commonwealth to ensure the provision of tertiary education without fees and regularly to review and extend the payment of living allowances. 
This is unequivocal and unabiguous. Let me say it is comparable with world trends and I would like to see Australians keep up with those trends. 
The fact of the matter is that the Commonwealth has in its relationship with the States and the universities built in an incentive scheme to raise university fees. That is to say, for every $1.85 raised by universities from student fees the Commonwealth provides a matching $1 - a subsidy, if you like, of $1. In other words it pays the States and the universities to increase student fees. Sydney University was faced with this dilemma; if fees were not raised it would have collected from the State a and the Commonwealth $426,000. By raising the fees by 161 per cent it will be collecting $1.52m, an extra $l.lm. Much of this amount is made up by the Commonwealth subsidy for the amount of the fee increase. If the Commonwealth was properly concerned about economic barriers to higher education, the plight of many students and families and the crisis in universities finance, it would do precisely the opposite - it would subsidise universities that kept fees down. On an average, university fees have risen by 50 per cent, as I have said, over the last 5 years. Let me give the Committee just a couple of examples of this trend. 
In 1952 a student paid $94 to the Faculty of Science at the University of Melbourne. By 1962 the fee had gone to $228. In 1971 it had risen to $528. I can assure the Committee that this is not any outstanding example. It is typical of the dozens which have been listed in answers to questions which I have placed on the notice paper. Let me give honourable members another example. This time I refer to the Faculty of Science at the University of Queensland. The fee in 1952 was $84; in 1962 it was $240; and in 1971 it was $456. 
The Minister has given us the unmistakable impression that university fees were not a great burden because of what he feels is a proliferation of scholarships - that is, people are getting scholarships and do not have to worry about fees. I want to disabuse him of the conviction he apparently has in this regard. Let me refer to Commonwealth scholarships. In 1971 there were 59,326 applicants for Commonwealth scholarships, but there are only 12,752 acceptances. That is to say, 46,574 people who sought them did not get them, or only one in 5 of all the applicants were successful. In 1971 48,873 applied for Commonwealth advanced education scholarships and 2,831 were accepted. That is to say, over 46,000 applicants were unsuccessful. In 1970 only 10 per cent of all the students undertaking advanced education courses had scholarships. A summary of the situation is that the percentage of all students enrolled in all universities and holding Commonwealth university scholarships as they can be the 70 per cent without scholarships are called was 30 per cent. Of course, among many people who cannot afford to be there. There is no need for the Minister to raise his eyebrows, because the figures I have quoted are the official ones which he recently supplied in answer to questions. He ought to get the situation into perspective. 
Let me have a look at the secondary education situation. Why, if ever there was a rat race it is the one in which unfortunate kids who have been swotting competitively for Commonwealth scholarships in the secondary education Reid find themselves. In 1971 there were 91,639 applications and there were 9,997 awards. That is, 81,642 were unsuccessful. Only one in 9 received a Commonwealth secondary scholarship. This is the process by which a student actually gets into university. 
There is no means test. The National Union of Australian University Students says that 10 per cent of all university students struggled to pay fees. The South Australian Government, like some other State governments, has introduced arrangements to meet the cost of the more critical cases. But that State is only scratching the surface and ad hoc arrangements such as this are operating. Yet this Minister and this Government seem to be indifferent. 
There are many other fees apart from university fees, which I do not have time to mention. My time is almost exhausted and all I can say is this: It is time to eliminate the barriers to higher education. It is true that if the Commonwealth makes money available for universities it will help people in the higher income group. But there are ways that can be contrived, as a previous speaker from the Government side has said, to ensure that people from low income families receive the opportunity to go on to higher education. I believe that the Government should set out to eliminate fees altogether or alternatively to introduce a scheme subject to a means test so that people who need assistance can receive it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I second the motion. I feel it is high time that this House was given the opportunity to consider al) the humanitarian questions involved with this enormous problem which has beset the people of East Pakistan. One cannot, of course, canvass all the aspects of this problem today, nor would one want to, because the proper thing to do is to provide an opportunity so that honourable members from both sides of this House can give to a problem of this magnitude the attention that is its due. Having just come from refugee camps in Calcutta and having just returned from the international conference on Bangla Desh which was held in New Delhi, I would like to say that I personally regard this matter to be probably the greatest demeaning of humanity which the world has ever known. Some people who know the position very thoroughly have contended that it is of such proportions that it makes Vietnam look like a Sunday school picnic. The regrettable thing is that despite the magnitude of the crisis at this point of time there is every indication that it will deteriorate even further because, despite the aid which has been provided by this and other countries- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I certainly would not want to strain our relationship in this matter at all. It is not necessary for me to add that experts are predicting that in the near future there is bound to be a famine which will sweep through East Pakistan. So it is not just a question of proposing to discuss the plight of the refugees in camps but it is also a question of proposing to discuss the need for political solutions in East Pakistan. Unless this is achieved there will be no effective amelioration of this great tragedy. I compliment the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for bringing up this matter because it is very clear that this and other countries have up to this point of time failed to make adequate resources available. The proposal is that we should give consideration to the honourable member's suggestion that an allocation of $1 per head of the Australian population should be expended. If this motion is carried and the Standing Orders are suspended we will doubtless have an opportunity to discuss a fair and equitable means by which this country at large can make its contribution so that everybody may participate through the proceeds of uniform taxation. 
I certainly hope that this matter does receive consideration because there has probably been no other issue about which honourable members have been so inundated with correspondence from people who have heartfelt concern for humanity. Hundreds of letters are pouring into this Parliament every day and as we are about to enter this House we can see the great sacrifice being made by students who have been fasting for some days for the express purpose of causing something to happen of the kind which the honourable member for Corio is proposing should happen. I think that in consideration of that sacrifice the Government, despite the traditions of the Parliament, despite the fact that it is usually contended that the Government has to be in charge of proceedings and things of this kind, ought to concede the point. If necessary the honourable member for Corio would be prepared to withdraw his motion and allow some 
Government supporter to move it if we were assured that this question would be ventilated. We do not want to get involved in any pedanticisms about a matter which affects humanity to the extent that this issue does. The demeaning of so many millions of people is in fact a demeaning of every one of us if we continue in the indifferent way that has characterised our behaviour up to date. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who is sitting at the table, is not an ungenerous man. He is a man who can have regard for humanity. I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will back him up if he decides to provide today an opportunity for the Parliament to apply itself to all the ramifications of this issue. If there is to be some resistance to this proposal - and I certainly hope there will not be - it may be that the Minister out of the goodness of his heart or the Prime Minister out of the qualities of his own leadership might be prepared to say. 'We cannot do it today because we want to get a Bill through but we will give an assurance that it will be done tomorrow.' The Opposition does not want to play party politics. It wants to make common cause on this and extract an assurance from the representatives of Australia that we will give to the people of Pakistan - this great mass of suffering humanity - the consideration which ought to be characteristic of the hearts of Australians. 
 I would like to speak about these estimates in the context of Aboriginal affairs. Firstly, I would like to say that I am very impressed with the quick action that has been taken in regard to the high mortality rate of Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory. It might be helpful for the Committee to know that the particulars about this distressing situation in the Northern Territory came to light in the most effective way through the activities of the Commonwealth Public Works Committee which derived, from the Reverend Keith Downing and other witnesses who were upon oath, a factual account of the very unfortunate circumstances that prevail in that area. There is no need for me to reiterate the details of the situation. The facts are that the mortality rate of Aboriginal children in central Australia doubled m 12 months; that of every 50 Aboriginal children born, 11 died in early childhood; that the 201 -bed hospital at Alice Springs was accommodating 240 patients; that there were 2 and 3 children to a bed and sometimes 3 or 4 to an oxygen tent. 
The fact of the matter is that the Government, through the inquiries conducted on behalf of this Parliament by the Public Works Committee, acted on the situation in Alice Springs. Without quibble I pay tribute and express thanks for the work done there. But I believe it is necessary to make the point that the kind of situation that was in evidence in Alice Springs is still in evidence in other parts of Australia. It is fortunate that the Commonwealth lias responsibility for and the prerogative over these matters relating to Alice Springs. 
But I believe that we have been derelict in the obligations and responsibilities we have had entrusted to us as a result of the referendum when the people of Australia overwhelmingly gave the imprimatur to the Commonwealth to take initiatives. Still we are engaging in this process of buck passing - the Commonwealth to the States and vice versa. I believe it is necessary for the Commonwealth to accept responsibility for Aboriginal people wherever they are, whether it be Commonwealth territory or State territory. It is not good enough to allow States to put the needs of Aboriginal people, these deprived people, under the various headings of housing, health, education and so on, right at the end of the queue. It is just as competent for the Commonwealth to take initiatives about these deprived people as it was for the Commonwealth to take the initiatives about the deprived people who came back from the war. We all know what happened in regard to the provision of war service homes, rehabilitation schemes, education schemes and matters of that kind. 
So I make this point in total. Because there has been some placation of the most dramatically revealed hardship suffered by the Aboriginal people that does not mean to say that there has been a total alleviation of the problem because the problems of malnutrition, bad housing, the lack of employment, indeed the product of all the paternalism that goes into situations where Aboriginal people are not self sufficient, are in evidence in many of the States. So I hope to see the Commonwealth show the kind of initiative elsewhere that it has shown in the Northern Territory. 
In certain parts of Australia a person's chances of going to prison are 340 times higher if he is a person of Aboriginal descent. This startling figure reveals the tragedy of human demeanment as represented by Australia's treatment of or the indifference meted out to the Aboriginal people. This figure does not mean that Aborigines are 340 times more lawless than is the non-Aboriginal population. It can mean, as I think it does mean, that there is discrimination against Aborigines in the enforcement of Australia's criminal law. 
Recently I asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  the following question: 
What proportion of (a) the population, (b) all prisoners and (c) all persons with criminal convictions is represented by persons of Aboriginal descent in each State and the Northern Territory. 
Through the lack of information figures could be given for only South Australia and Western Australia. The Minister said that in South Australia the Aboriginal population was 0.13 per cent of the total population. He said also that Aboriginal people represented 30.89 per cent of all prisoners in that State for 1969-70. On those figures a South Australian Aborigine has 340 more chances of going to prison than has a non-Aboriginal South Australian. These are not my figures; they have been worked out by mathematicians in the Parliamentary Library from the answer given by the Minister. Actually the position is much worse, as the Minister has understated the Aboriginal population. According to census figures, the total population of South Australia was 1,079,380 and there were 5,505 full blood Aborigines - full blood, mind you. I had asked about people of Aboriginal descent. Instead of there being an Aboriginal population of 0.13 per cent it would be more like 0.5 per cent, which would make the Aboriginal imprisonment rate an even higher proportion of the total. 
The figures given indicate that in Western Australia the Aboriginal population is 2.4 per cent of the total and that Aboriginal prisoners constitute 41.3 per cent of total prisoners. This means that in Western Australia an Aboriginal person has 29 more chances than has a white person of going to prison. These figures provided by the Minister are generally in accord with the results of a study completed by the Monash University Faculty of Law. Here the study revealed that Aborigines comprised only 2.5 per cent of the general population yet accounted for 25 per cent of all prisoners and 11 per cent of all criminal convictions. The supposition that there is discrimination between Aborigines and whites in the administration of justice has been tested by several academics and by the Opposition's Aboriginal Affairs Committee, of which I am a member. 

 Dr E. M. Eggleston dissected 4,000 cases heard by courts in 10 Western Australian towns. Included in her findings were these facts: There was excessive attention to Aboriginal reserves and camps by .police; there was a police emphasis on certain. offences such as drunkenness affecting Aborigines; attitudes of individual police were significant, affecting for example the decision whether to prosecute where Aboriginal people were involved; white people found under the influence were less likely to be arrested than were Aborigines; Aborigines were less likely to be granted bail than whites; poverty was often' the reason an Aborigine was not released on bail; poverty and lack of education resulted in many Aborigines not obtaining legal representation. In every category of offence the percentage of those charged receiving prison sentences was higher among Aborigines. Lastly, our legal system generally ignores the existence of tribal laws. 
I am very pleased to note that examinations into this matter are being conducted. Recently I drew the attention of the Minister to the fact that in many parts of Australia Aboriginal people are being discriminated against as far as justice is concerned. I am very pleased that the Minister has arranged for the Police Commissioner of New South. Wales to conduct inquiries into the type of matter to which I have referred. The committee of which I am a member has looked at the situation in the western part of New South Wales and has found it to be appalling. It is not good enough, I suggest to the Minister, that he should require the Police Commissioner ot New South Wales alone to look at this matter. This is a national problem and it should be looked at by the police commissioners of each of the States. Overwhelming evidence exists, even with the limited studies that have been done, that in every State, with the exception of Tasmania where we disposed of our Aboriginal community many, many years ago by most unbecoming techniques and methods, Aboriginal people are receiving the kind of justice which has prompted the Minister to call for an inquiry in New South Wales. I hope that he does likewise in every other State. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
ls there any evidence to show that Aborigines are the subject of discrimination by licensees of some hotels and clubs in country areas of New South Wales. 
Can he say whether any hotels or clubs in New South Wales are known to have policies or rules designed to preclude persons of Aboriginal descent from patronage of premises on the grounds of race; if so, what are the details. 
Has any hotel or club licensee in New South Wales been convicted for selling liquor to an intoxicated Aboriginal person; if so, what are the details. 
What was the (a) number of persons charged with drunkenness, (b) number of persons convicted for drunkenness, (c) number of persons of Aboriginal descent charged with drunkenness, (d) number of persons of Aboriginal descent convicted of drunkenness and (e) number of defended cases where persons of Aboriginal descent were charged with drunkenness in New South Wales for the latest year for which figures are available. 
Can he say whether persons of Aboriginal descent in some country areas of New South Wales experience difficulty in securing legal assistance for such minor court appearances as a drunkenness charge. 
Is any public form of legal assistance available to these people; if so, what are the details. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersighed citizens of Australia respectfully showeth:  (a) That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and Inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take Immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Government has provided less than half the amount of aid which has been sought by the Opposition which speaks for the Australian people in terms of the petitions with which the Parliament has been inundated week after week. I believe that Australians are shocked by the contrast between the Government's reckless spending for many dubious causes and this casual disregard for the misery and degradation which is besetting the people of East Pakistan. This crisis is the most likely catalyst for a world war facing world humanity in our time, and it needs more than some cursory and casual consideration of the aid factor. It needs a genuine involvement in all the matters which contribute to the problem. 
So we are to make available some $5. 5m. I suppose for people who cam $60 a week that sounds like a lot of money, but I want to remind the Parliament that we are talking about $5. 5m in 1971 when we have in the current Budget which is still under consideration in this Parliament a surplus of no less than $630m which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and others proudly have said is an unusually high Budget surplus. It seems to me on that basis we may have been able to squeeze out a little more. We are allocating $5.5m at a time when our overseas reserves stand at $2,974m again said to be at the bonanza level, an unprecedented level. We are spending it, indeed, at a time when we are pouring money into such reckless objectives as the acquisition of 24 Fill aircraft which are to cost us some $230m or $240m, and after all we are spending it in a period when we have been spending approximately $100m per annum since 1955 on the destruction of the Asian people who live in Vietnam - $100m every year for some 15 years. Yet when it comes to the opportunity to show the Asian people and the world that we as a country in the Asian region really care about the welfare of Asians, we can squeeze out but $5. 5m, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  takes the trouble to indicate his enthusiasm and finds some eulogistic letter from somebody overseas to read to the Parliament. 
We are speaking in times when this Government was prepared to say: 'We will underwrite at any cost the expenses associated with the Springbok tour of Australia to uphold apartheid'. Here was a chance to redress that disgraceful situation, and once again, in my view, the Government has let Australia down. People have been relatively generous, and I pay tribute io the organisations which have worked to raise the $2m referred to - Austcare, Freedom from Hunger and the churches. How wonderful it was yesterday to see members of the churches out together - people of all denominations, the Church of England bishops, the Catholic bishops, so many people anxious to do the right thing. I should mention the contribution of people such as my colleague, the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  who took the trouble to go to India at his own expense as a medico and render treatment to these people in their hour of need. I know of others from this Parliament who went there to do likewise. 
Just over a month ago I had the privilege of going not into the service to which I have referred but to an international conference on Bangla Desh conducted at New Delhi. This was a conference called by a consortium of Ghandian organisations, including the Ghandi Peace Foundation, and it was held to focus world opinion on the situation in East Pakistan, to help stir the conscience of the world. I suppose that is why I sought to speak in this debate tonight. The conference was designed to bring pressure on Islamabad to reverse its oppressive and its inhuman policies. We have heard reference to this by the honourable member for Isaacs tonight. He has denigrated those people who have shown enthusiasm for supporting the liberation forces in East Pakistan. When all is said and done, who would stir in any situation if he failed to be disillusioned by the fact that the Awami League in East Pakistan, which received such an overwhelming imprimatur from the people of that country to the extent of winning 167 out of 169 seats, was denied government. I think even members of the Country Party would concede that the Awami league is entitled to rule in that situation, having won 167 out of the 169 seats. Nearly 99 per cent of the seats were won in East Bengal and about 80 per cent of the popular votes cast over the entire country. 
Sheik Rahman, who led the Awami League, had the support and the backing of the people, and General Yahya Khan indicated his willingness at one stage to accept the verdict of the people and indeed entered into negotiations with the leader of the Awami League. At this stage he referred to him as future Prime Minister, and it seemed as though there was to be a solution of this problem. But while the negotiations were taking place in a manner which was almost synonymous with what took place at Pearl Harbour when the negotiations were taking place in Washington, the army from West Pakistan struck out of the night and roared into the towns of East Pakistan and razed them to the ground. As you walk through the refugee camps, as I had the opportunity to do a month ago, you talk to but a few of the people - there are 10 million of them there - and you say: 'Why did you come and how far did you come?' They say: 'I have walked 200 miles, 300 miles'. You ask: Why did you leave your home?' They say: Because the troops arrived and set fire to our houses, and as we ran out they machine gunned us'. You ask: 'How many did you lose in your family?' The first casualty to whom I talked said: T lost my wife and 7 children'. So 10 million rushed into India, and India is bearing the great burden today of that onslaught of refugees, the onslaught of suffering humanity of proportions which are unprecedented in the history of the world. And we can raise but  &amp;5im. 
Australians will hang their heads in shame. After all we are thinking only of the refugees at this point of time. It is true, as the honourable member has said, that it is not just sufficient to give aid to refugees. How many more millions are we going to give? How long will we keep this up? The real answer, of course, is of a political nature. So far this Government has not concerned itself with this aspect. Australia has to ask itself whether it has responded adequately to this great human tragedy involving as it does the mass slaughter of hundreds of thousands, millions of people being driven from their homes and even from their country, and involving famine, hunger, disease and deprivation in all its forms. Australia has made this contribution which has been of a practical nature but once again far too little and far too late. 
There are figures to indicate what countries have given. They were made available by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in answer, to a question on 15th September 1971. It is interesting to note that countries referred to already in this debate have given more than what was attributed to them, because England, the United States, Canada and several other countries have not only given to the refugee appeal but they have also given aid to East Pakistan on a very large scale. The Minister will remember that in the answer he gave the figures were listed in 2 columns, one indicating relief for East Pakistan refugees as at August 1971 and the other indicating relief for East Pakistan as at August 1971. Canada gave $US3.4m to refugees and in addition gave $US6.9m to East Pakistan. This is the volume of aid which Australia is not giving. The United Kingdom gave $7. 8m to the refugees but it also gave S7.2m to East Pakistan. There are many other instances of the generosity of other countries contrasted with that of Australia. 
All aid is just basic sustenance. It is not sufficient to put a country back on the rails again. We have a tendency and a psychology in this country - and the Government certainly has it - to deal with effects rather than with causes. In a way the Government would rather run the soup kitchen than stop the depression or knit socks for the soldiers instead of preventing the war. I believe we have to get right down to the basic issues of this situation. So many people are speaking in noble terms. The International Parliamentary Union did this recently and made a great statement. The Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference, to which I was a delegate, did not actually carry resolutions, because it is not its custom to do so, but expressed great sympathy. The Socialist Internationale, 470 Indian members of Parliament, hundreds of British Labour members of Parliament and groups from all over the world are saying wonderful, idealistic things but at this point of time not one government in the world has taken an initiative in the proper and appropriate place, which is the United Nations. As a member of the United Nations we should not be prepared to stand by and see another member of that body so recklessly abandoning all the principles which are sacrosanct and sacred, and that is of course that a party with a philosophy which obtains an overwhelming vote from the peoples should be entitled to govern. When a party gets 167 seats out of 168 seats that is undoubtedly the situation. 
I would like to come back to the aid aspect. Let me make the point that up till now $157m has been promised by the countries of the world but of that amount only $20m has actually been made available for the relief of the refugee problem. I have with me authentic tables of figures which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is welcome to check if he has the inclination to do so. The great disaster began in March of this year - more than 6 months ago - yet only $20m has been forwarded. Do honourable members know that India is remitting $3m every day for the relief of the refugees in its own country? Yet the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks proudly of the Australian Government's gesture of giving a total of $5.5m. The cost to India of sustaining the refugees is no less than $20m a week. How long can this effort be sustained? Indeed, for how long can Australia and the other countries which have made contributions sustain the contributions of limited proportions which have already come to hand? Clearly we have to start dealing with the fundamental issues. We have to get the matter into the United Nations. We have to get the people back into their own country so that the wheels of industry can start to turn again and so that the peasants can get back to tilling the fields and working the ploughs. But not one word has been said about this aspect up to this point of time. 
Finally I want to warn that there is a danger that the contributions which we are making might be expended in the wrong direction. A statement was made recently to this effect in the Bangla Desh news sheet. The statement was made by the group which has been operating since the Bangla Desh regime declared its independence. There is no doubt that some of the contributions being made by various countries is being spirited away and expended through West Pakistan as a means and as a technique of bringing those people into a subjective and sycophantic situation, a compliant situation, with an oppressive regime which fundamentally is responsible for the East Pakistanis' basic problem. This matter needs to be talked about at some length. But I urge the Minister to reconsider the allocation that has been made. It is clearly insufficient in terms of the problem on hand. In addition it is time that the Australian Government grasped the nettle, went to the United Nations and indicated that it is concerned with basic democratic principles and concerned with the need to give the people of East Pakistan the opportunity to govern themselves. 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The housing opportunities for the young people of Australia are embedded in a trough of governmental nonchalance and indifference which is having dire consequences for the whole of Australia. We are living in limes when there are bulging cities, overcrowding and accompanying sociological problems. Pollution is the order of the day. There is a shortage of services - a deficiency of things like sewerage, for example. There are traffic snarls from one end of the country to the other. We have cities like the city of Sydney which is growing at such a rate that it is tacking on a city as big as Canberra every 2 years. Yet this Government comes into this debate with a deficiency of speakers, and certainly a deficiency of any significant ideas. There seems to be no answer from the Government benches to these particular problems. 
The Opposition is participating in this debate and is spearheading it by drawing attention to several important facets of the housing problem. Members of the Opposition want to draw attention to the need to provide low cost housing for the underprivileged people of Australia because we believe that every citizen, regardless of his financial circumstances, has the right to live in a house and to own a house, yet this is not happening in Australia at present. We are anxious to enable public land development commissions, to be set up in co-operation with the States, to acquire necessary land, to hold it in public ownership, to develop it and to make it available on reasonable terms to the public. Indeed, we are anxious to reduce interest rates and we want to establish uniformity of building codes and to overcome the morass of bureaucracy which descends on people when they set about building a house. To effect economies is the product of effecting uniformity of building codes. 
One could go through each of the points which are the subject of. the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and enunciate them. They represent an important message - an alternative to the hopeless situation into which the Government has sent itself and the people of Australia in respect of housing. What is wrong with the idea of ensuring that Crown land, which is available still in large areas in Australia, should be set aside so that it can be made available, not as some State governments have been forced to do to use the allocation of that land for revenue purposes but for the purpose of ensuring that it is available to young people at reasonable rates of interest. What is wrong with the Commonwealth Government taking an initiative in relation to new cities? Are not the present cities big and bulging, or am I living in a world of make believe? Do Government members concede that on the one hand Australia has some of the biggest cities in the world and on the other hand there is a wide expanse of country which offers an opportunity for a government with initiative and enterprise to show a positive alternative? 
I think of my State of New South Wales. How long is it since a new city was established in that State? How long is it since the authorities said to young people: 'Come into a place as good as Canberra. Come into another place in New South Wales where there will be a planned city which is oriented to resources, which has the availability of employment, which has planning and which has a partnership between the Commonwealth and the States'? I think of a place like Eden, which is south of Sydney and Wollongong. It is appalling that there is no city of substantial size from Wollongong to Melbourne, despite the presence in the area of the wood chip industry and rural industry. People talk about the decadence of rural industry, but what encouragement has the Government given it? The Government may tell young people that industries are established now and that, with encouragement and incentive, others can be enticed to establish. The State governments have not the resources to embark on a project of that kind, but with Commonwealth initiative this could be achieved. This is important. The same kind of thing could be done to the north of Sydney - maybe in the Port Stephens area - where resources are available. This tired, decadent and lazy government is no longer the answer for the people who are suffering as a consequence of its misdemeanours of inadequacy and lack of imagination. 
So the Opposition is trying to identify these problems tonight. Recently the State Ministers for Housing had imposed upon them a new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. From one end of the country to the other the Press declared that the collapse of the Housing Agreement was in sight. We were told that the Commonwealth Government's rate of interest, at 7 per cent, was such that the State governments would be unable to meet the housing needs of the low income earners who could not meet the heavy interest burden. The States have called for a rate of interest lower than the crippling 7 per cent which doubles the price of housing. They have called for an alternative of 4 per cent. They have asked the Commonwealth for assistance similar to that which is being given by governments in comparable countries all round the world. 
Why cannot something be done? Is the young Minister who is sitting at the table, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  deliberately recreant to his trust or has he been swallowed up by the indifferent atmosphere which prevails in the Government? When one looks at the price of land one sees that it has accelerated by 150 per cent over the last 10 years. That is bad enough, but the Government is standing by and allowing the cost to accelerate at a faster rate. It is now rising at the rate of 20 per cent per annum. 1 am thinking of my children and of the children of honourable members opposite - the young people who are in hock when they get married. What kind of future is this for them? They may not have much capital, but they have a financial capacity which is represented by their hands and their willingness to work. That is their repayment capacity. With the vast area of land available in Australia the Government should be able to ensure that a block of land can be made available to them at a a reasonable price and at a reasonable rate of interest. 
The cost of housing, quite apart from the cost of land, is surging upwards. Figures produced by the Commonwealth Statistician reveal that the price of materials for house building in the 6 State capitals rose by 6.9 per cent in the 12 months to August 1971. The rise has been higher than the rise in average earnings and in any of the other measurements that could be applied. In Melbourne and Brisbane the cost rose by 7.8 per cent, in Adelaide by 7.5 per cent, in Perth by 6.8 per cent and in Sydney by 5.6 per cent. Steel prices rose by 9.9 per cent. In the United States of America, when a steel consortium wants to increase prices, the Administration moves in and if it is in the public interest to restrain the consortium action is taken. But that does not happen here. When the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, the monopolising corporation in Australia, set out to increase its prices at about the time when the then Prime Minister was warning about inflationary trends, the Government allowed that company to raise its prices, without any challenge. The price of cement rose by 9.6 per cent, concrete with sand by 9.4 per cent and timber boards and joinery by 8.4 per cent. This is an incredible situation. 
I have talked about housing on many occasions. The time allotted to me in this debate is only 10 minutes. I have despaired and I have finally come to the conclusion that the Government has no answer. There is an answer to high interest rates and to high land prices. The Government can make Commonwealth land available through public corporations, as it has done in Canberra. While land prices have been soaring throughout the rest of Australia the housing situation in Canberra has remained stable. That is an example for the Government to emulate. For the sake of the thousands of young people in this country I ask the Government to start to face up to its responsibilities and to stop presiding, like an undertaker, over the- death of housing opportunities for those young people who from the time of their marriage are, as it were, imprisoned. Look at the- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
There are just a few matters to which I should like to answer because the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has made many inaccurate statements in his speech. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Opposition Members - No. 

<graphic href="074131197110283_88_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197110283_88_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - The question now before the Committee is that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Reid be agreed to. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Uren's)  be agreed to. 
All Australians have been shocked to learn of the disfigurement of the gateway to Sydney Harbour by the dumping of rubbish and spoil over the cliffs and into the sea. It is true that this involves several authorities, local government and otherwise, but it is a national disgrace that the Commonwealth Government is among the offenders and, indeed, is the major offender. Also of great concern is the Commonwealth Government's apparent unwillingness to co-operate with the Government of New South Wales in its attempt to establish a Sydney Harbour national park. Accordingly I have proposed that the House discuss, as a matter of public importance: 
The Government's failure to co-operate with the Government of New South Wales in preserving the environment of South Head and in establishing a Sydney Harbour national park. 
For some years the Government of New South Wales has been endeavouring to secure the co-operation of the Commonwealth Government in establishing a Sydney Harbour national park by bringing suitable foreshore land back into public ownership. I am sure that all honourable members would commend it for that objectivity. 
Sydney Harbour, already acknowledged as one of the most beautiful harbours in the world, would be greatly enhanced by the provision of more land for public purposes. If there is anything wrong with the harbour at all, it is the alienation of land which has taken place over the years. One would have thought that the Commonwealth Government would be enthusiastic about assisting towards the achievement of this objective. Already the State Government, without much assistance from the Commonwealth Government, has acquired some 80 acres of land and only the stubborn occupation by the Department of the Navy of South Head now prevents fulfilment of the major part of this scheme. There has been generous cooperation by many authorities, by private enterprise, by private owners and by government departments, including the Department of the Army, but the Department of the Navy is dragging the chain, or dragging the anchor, badly in this matter. 
Hopes that the area might become available for public purposes have been dashed by the Navy's insistence that South Head should be the site for the naval tactical trainer base. No strategic necessity has yet been demonstrated for the utilisation of this site for the tactical trainer base, and in fact evidence is available to indicate that other sites around Sydney would be suitable. I might say as an aside that honourable members are able to have their own interest and anxiety about this matter fortified by even a cursory look at the recent report on this project by the Public Works Committee. Yet this project is to proceed and the public will be denied forever the benefit of this amenity. South Head, the centrepiece for this great concept, with its sweeping views of the sea and the harbour, is to be substantially withheld from the proposal to establish this Sydney Harbour Royal national park. 
Some of us had hoped that the appointment of a new Minister for the Navy who comes from Sydney would see a mellowing of the old hard line which characterised the attitude of some of his predecessors from Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia, none of whom could be expected to have the indigenous interest in Sydney's welfare of the present Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  But alas our hopes have been destroyed. 1 believe the Minister for the Navy should be called to answer for this unnecessary denial of public interest. In my view this land grabbing mentality and this insensitive reaction to the need to preserve and improve the Sydney environment should be the subject of a royal commission before this fine scenic area is lost to the people and indeed to posterity for ever. 
Adding insult to injury, construction of the naval installation has commenced and the Minister has approved the dumping of a massive tonnage of excavation spoil - some 35,000 cubic yards - into the sea at South Head. This dumping is to take place at the rate of 150 trucks a day 5 days a week over a 10-week period. That is to say, thousands of tons of soil and rock will be dumped to pollute the waterways, to despoil the landscape and generally to desecrate this place of national pride. Indeed the Minister's shame is the violation of our national heritage. Only the fierce indignation of the public, the Press and the Government of New South Wales has influenced the Minister for the Navy in calling a temporary halt, in giving a brief respite, to this blatant act of governmental vandalism. How long will this respite last? The Minister prophesied that at the best the dumping could be held off for some  2  or 3 days. Maybe it has recommenced already without sufficient time having been allowed for a proper investigation into all the ecological and other questions involved. 
The dumping of this material is associated with the construction of the tactical trainer building at HMAS 'Watson' at South Head. As ministerial head of the Commonwealth Department, the Minister for the Navy has been fully aware of the complete and unequivocal opposition of the State Government to the proposal to dump this material into the sea. In disregarding the ecological consequence and the possibility of contaminating Sydney beaches and Sydney Harbour the Minister in my view has shown contempt for both expert opinion and the views of a sovereign State. Clearly it is the Minister for the Navy who must for all time bear responsibility for this blatant and irretrievable act of governmental vandalism. 
It was he who on Tuesday last assured his own colleague, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who expressed concern about this matter - and properly so - on behalf of the constituents he represents, that dumping the material into the sea would cause no hazards or residual adverse effects. He went on to say that contaminating the sea was a better alternative to damaging the roadway; that this was a way of saving $50,000. A paltry $50,000 was the alternative to sacrificing the sea and the environs of Sydney Harbour and Sydney's beaches. He went on to make light of the matter by saying that discolouration of the sea could not compare with the pollution by night soil and other damage from flooding in the Parramatta River. He not only made the mistake of going on with this dumping, he also brazenly in this Parliament sought to justify it, and, worse still, wanting the best of both worlds he sought to absolve himself from responsibility by then attempting to shift the blame on to the contractor. In my view this is inexcusable and is a breach of all the ministerial principles which we have come to uphold in this House in terms of tradition. In reply to a question asked last Tuesday by his own colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  the Minister said: 
The contractor has decided that the best method of getting rid of the spoil from the area is by talcing it to the other side of South Head. . . . 
If that be the fact and if the Minister felt that the attitude of the contractor was undesirable I would say that it was the responsibility of the Minister to ensure that in developing this naval project damage to Sydney's gateway and waterways would not take place and that the dumping would be prevented. No contractor runs the Government of Australia. The fact is that the Minister was officially asked by the State Government to refrain from dumping the spoil into the sea and he flatly refused that request by his inaction. Can the Minister deny that this matter was the subject of considerable interrogation of sworn witnesses at the inquiry conducted by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works? The minutes of evidence have this very day been circulated to all honourable members and contain the proof of what I have contended. These are some of the salient points. At page 19, for example  Mr Fraser  the Acting Assistant Director (Design) Department of Works, in reply to the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  a Liberal member who was as concerned about this matter as I was, said: 
The estimate allows  tor  carting it through Woollahra to a dumping area at Maroubra.' 
He said the estimate allows for it. He went on: 
We have asked the Premier's Department whether they can have any objections to dumping it over the cliff into the ocean. . . . We have received advice from the Premier's Department that they have some objection to this.* 

 Mr Fraser then went on to read a letter from the Under-Secretary to the Premier's Department of New South Wales. It reads: 
I refer to your letter of 3rd May and previous correspondence concerning the proposed erection of a technical training building for the Department of the Navy at HMAS 'Watson' al South Head and proposing that sandstone removed from the site be disposed of by dumping over the cli'fT face into the ocean. 
In reply I would like to say that objections are held to the dumping of the sandstone over the cliff face as proposed. 
That is a letter on behalf of the Premier of New South Wales indicating in unambiguous terms and in an unequivocal way that the State Government of New South Wales is opposed to this dumping and that it would rather spend S50,000 than spoil Sydney Harbour and possibly damage Sydney's beaches. The letter went on to advise that the State Planning Authority of New South Wales and the Woollahra Municipal Council are opposed to both the erection of the building on South Head and the proposal to dump the material over the cliff. At the Public Works Committee hearing I asked questions, one of which was in these terms: 
Now that the Commonwealth is getting its own involvement in environmental matters through the setting up of a Department, does your Department feel obliged to look at the possible effects on the ecology of dumping this material into the sea? With the Commonwealth's obligations about off-shore matters and for that matter, interconnected relationship with estuaries and so on, do you feel that you should have had some regard to these matters and have you in fact?' 
On page 21 there is an admission that the Commonwealth had not had any technological advice about the effects of dumping the material into the sea. Did the Minister or any of his colleagues seek to obtain any such expert advice before this dumping commenced? What alternatives have been investigated? Page 25 of the minutes of the inquiry shows the question I asked and the negative answer I received: 
Surely, when one is thinking of disposing of so much soil, a very early part of the concern would be directed at where it is to go.  What  is being done in this regard? 
To which instrumentalities have you directed inquiries? In particular, have you thought of the possibility thai there may be a site requiring this soil that could obviate the need for traffic congestion and inconvenience to residents and business people by carting it in barges across the harbour to some other part, or even by sea maybe to a place like the new runway to Botany Bay?' 
In addition to these expressions of concern, the  Chairman  of the State Planning Authority,  Mr N.  A. W. Ashton, and the Director of National Parks and Wildlife of New South Wales joined in vigorously opposing the dumping of soil over the cliff. In doing so, they made it clear that their opposition was on behalf of the Minister for Local Government, the Minister for Lands, the Minister for the Environment and, indeed, the Premier of New South Wales. 
I have sought my own expert advice and 1 have a statement by  Dr Keith  A. W. Crook, the reader in sedimentology at the Australian National University. This statement was made in the light of the matter which is now before this House. I have mentioned it to the Minister and, for the purpose of informing honourable members, I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
To summarise the statement, I simply indicate that  Dr Crook,  who is an acknowledged expert, strongly condemns the developments to which I have referred. The Minister for the Navy is the person who led the defence for the now completely discredited Clutha project, who upholds the desecration of Cockburn Sound and who has shown an insensitive attitude to the need to preserve Sydney's beaches. I believe that he has provoked the public and agitated conservationists and all those people throughout Australia who believe that these matters involve an important and significant part of Australia's heritage. I believe that he stands censured and that a full and thorough inquiry should be conducted into all the circumstances which have resulted in the Government's engaging in its desecration of the gateway to Sydney Harbour. 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has been functioning since 1952 and, in successive Budgets to 1969- 70, $130m has been spent on its capital works and programmes. Nearly 1,300 people comprise the Commission's staff, and many of them are dissatisfied with the Commission's administration. Worse still, there is increasing public disenchantment with the Commission's policies and results. Large amounts of capital have been unnecessarily consumed at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. Australia's reputation in the international atomic field has been tarnished through the abortive calling of tenders or the ill conceived Jervis Bay project. Careers of highly skilled personnel have been unfulfilled and even jettisoned as a result of frequent changes of course in the research programme. The resignation rate of nuclear experts disillusioned through lack of promotion opportunities, is reaching the proportion of a serious nuclear brain drain which Australia will come to regret. 
Almost uniformly, major projects undertaken by the Commission have exhibited a notable failure to achieve those aims originally attributed to them. The Commission's high incidence of unsuccessful research projects should be brought under the expert scrutiny of a new watchdog authority. There is an urgent need to establish an expert scientific investigation commission comprising eminent scientists of world reputation. Such a body is required to probe the inefficient administration of the Atomic Energy Commission which has been responsible for such monumental fiascos as the Jervis Bay atomic power project. The role of the new authority would be to set guidelines for atomic research at the Lucas Heights atomic research establishment; to make recommendations on the development of atomic power plants; to formulate a nuclear fuel policy; to give advice about Australia's role in the world uranium enrichment industry; and to examine the relationship of atomic research to Australia's defence requirements. 
I believe that there is very serious disillusionment with the administration of the Atomic Energy Commission which, through misguided policies, has not achieved the expectations held for it. Let me give some examples of this alarmingly high incidence of unsuccessful project activities undertaken by the Commission. I give these in order to justify my proposal for the appointment of an expert committee to scrutinise the Commission's activities. In its fifth report the Commission announced its intention to conduct investigations into a high temperature gas cooled reactor. A decision was taken to research a system employing an unusual moderating material, beryllium, which is expensive and highly toxic. It is an unusual fuel system - the pebble bed concept. It is an unusual fuel cycle involving uranium 233 and thorium. In its fourteenth report, which was presented 9 years later, the commission announced the abandonment of this research as developments overseas had shown that other systems were superior. At the same time a commitment was taken to conduct research into a liquid metal fuelled reactor. This was abandoned after 2 years, it being realised that effective research could extend over 10 years or more and that the Commission was not geared to that kind of programme. 
Then for a few years resources were diverted to research into small reactor systems of only a few megawatts. Apparently this research was targeted for powering such remote localities as the developing mineral areas. It was called the pocket reactor research programme, but regrettably this was abandoned too. In 1963 the Commission shifted its interest to Operation Ploughshare and the development of a harbour at Cape Keraudren in Western Australia. When the mining company concerned - and I believe it was the Clutha company, or at least it was run by Clutha's owner, Daniel Ludwig - decided to limit its contributions to the feasibility study the Commission abandoned yet another project on the grounds that there was insufficient basis to continue with the study. Honourable members will recall that this was the proposal to develop a harbour in the western part of Australia by the use of atomic detonation but, as I say, it was also abandoned. The Jervis Bay nuclear power station proposal was the next fiasco. 
I am in favour of Australia going into the atomic era in a sensible and properly planned way. I ask the Minister: Is he pleased with the fact that Australia has damaged its reputation, by calling for tenders for a project which clearly was beyond Australia's financial capacity? I remind him that at the last election a commitment was made by the Prime Minister of this country that Australia would develop an atomic power station at Jervis Bay, but it has now been abandoned at enormous expense. Let us look at the sequence of events. New South Wales was not to be equipped with a nuclear power station until the end of the 1970s or well into the 1980s when a nuclear plant might become competitive with coal fired stations. New South Wales had coal fired stations capitalised and operating, and it was just not economical to propose that we should proceed to establish a nuclear power plant in New South Wales in that situation. But on the hoof, a decision was taken by the Prime Minister of the day, and we all know what happened. The tender specifications called for a reactor using natural uranium, and indicated that an enrichment plant would be established in Australia to supply local enriched fuel. In fact, it was premature to talk of fuel enrichment plants and enriched fuels. 
Now the Commission talks of water cooled reactors in a very general and airy fairy way and does not specify whether the fuel is enriched or whether the water is to be heavy or light. The decision on the Jervis Bay plant, as I have said, has been postponed and the enormously expensive tenders have become superfluous. The Jervis Bay project may have been a successful election gimmick - otherwise that barren site at Jervis Bay is a monument to massive Government mismanagement. Now there is talk about a uranium enrichment plant in Australia, with the United States of America or France supplying the technology, Japan supplying the market and Australia supplying the uranium. In view of our earlier fiascos this matter needs a lot of careful examination and, as the member for the electorate in which the Lucas Heights atomic research establishment is located, I want the Committee to know that people in very high, eminent and responsible positions at the reactor are saying precisely what I have already said, and they are very anxious to ensure that the proposed uranium enrichment project is not undertaken without proper consideration, because enormous public expenditure is involved. 
The number of potential suppliers of enriched uranium is increasing to such an extent that we could be creating the greatest white elephant the scientific age has ever known.  As  I have said, I know personally of large numbers of dedicated people working at Lucas Heights, and I am sorry that they are disillusioned with the administration of the Atomic Energy Commission. In fact staff discontent is rife throughout the Lucas Heights establishment. I regret to say that the Minister has been indifferent to the objections made on behalf of the staff. A printed statement made on behalf of over 400 technical staff employed at the reactor concluded by saying: 
They say we are going to have a network of nuclear reactors throughout Australia. On our experience here, with the 2 we already have and the management that mismanages us, we can only feel a real sense of alarm at the thought of further bungling. 
There is more that I would like to say, but it is sufficient to say that it is my view that the Atomic Energy Commission needs to come under more effective parliamentary surveillance and it ought to come under effective scientific surveillance if we are to ensure that the squandering of the taxpayers' money that has characterised the activities of the Commission in the past is to be minimised and reduced in the future. So I call for the consideration of that proposal. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
In respect of each accidentover the last ten years involving Australian registered aircraft, what was the: 
Date of the accident. 
Location of the accident. 
Type of aircraft involved. 
Registered owner of the aircraft. 
Number of passengers. 
Number and designation of crew. 
Circumstances and cause of the accident. 
Number injured. 
Number of fatalities. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is there any evidence to show that Aborigines are the subject of discrimination by licensees of some hotels and clubs in country areas of New South Wales. 
Can he say whether any hotels or clubs in New South Wales are known to have policies or rules designed to preclude persons of Aboriginal descent from patronage of premises on the grounds of race; if so, what are the details. 
Has any hotel or club licensee in New South Wales been convicted for selling liquor to an intoxicated Aboriginal person; if so what are the details. 
What was the (a) number of persons charged with drunkenness, (b) number of persons convicted for drunkenness, (c) number of persons of Aboriginal descent charged with drunkenness, (d) number of persons of Aboriginal descent convicted of drunkenness and (e) number of defended cases where persons of Aboriginal descent were charged with drunkenness in New South Wales for the latest year for which figures are available. 
Can he say whether persons of Aboriginal descent in some country areas of New South Wales experience difficulty in securing legal assistance for such minor court appearances as a drunkenness charge. 
Is any public form of legal assistance available to these people: if so, what are the details. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, willever pray. 
Petition received. 
I suppose that to many honourable members in this chamber tonight and to many people listening to the broadcast this is an occasion for very great disappointment that the attempt by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to bring to a head the subject of a national superannuation scheme has again failed. It is not without significance that on a number of occasions this request for an inquiry into a national superannuation scheme has not met with the support of the Government. I have with me copies of amendments moved by the honourable member for Oxley to the Social Services Bill  1970.  Here again was a request that a national superannuation scheme be established and the means test be eliminated. I also have with me an amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  to the Superannuation Bill  1970  in which he requested that further consideration of the Bill be deferred for several reasons, one being that the whole matter of superannuation could be considered in the context of overseas practices in relation to a national superannuation scheme. 
I suppose that in recent years on five or six occasions the Opposition has attempted to encourage the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to honour the undertaking which he had given, to honour the agitation which he had made for many years prior to becoming the Minister, to eliminate the means test and introduce a national superannuation scheme. Preceding this debate tonight the honourable member for Oxley advised honourable members generally of his intention to move in this direction. He had had his attention drawn to what some honourable members oppo-site regarded as a misdemeanour in that he had not given sufficient notice on previous occasions, so he attempted tonight to accommodate those honourable members but without success. 
This Government has lost interest in social services. Australia once led the field and we were emulated by many other countries. But if honourable members look at the figures they will see why our social services are declining and why people who are dependent on social services are becoming more and more unhappy. The official figures show that Australia spends a relatively small proportion of its gross national product on social services. I will give some of the figures. European Economic Community countries spend 15.2 per cent of their gross national product. Sandinavian countries spend 10.9 per cent. Canada is spending 9.9 per cent. The United Kingdom is spending 8.6 per cent. Switzerland is spending 8.2 per cent. New Zealand is spending 6.6 per cent. The United States spends 5.9 per cent and Australia is down to 5.5 per cent. Is it any wonder that there are many areas of social services which are slipping into decline? 
I understand that the maternity allowance, for example, has been unaltered for 25 years and, of course, confinement costs have increased at a very rapid rate, especially in the last 5 years. Child endowment has remained unaltered for the first child for about 18 years, for the second child for 20 years and for the third child for 4 years. In 1949 families with 3 children received endowment of 11.5 per cent of average male earnings but a family with 3 children now receives 5 per cent. They should get $12 a week in endowment if the value of the male weekly earnings had been maintained but in fact they get $6.75. These are very real figures which adversely affect the living standards of people in this country. I suppose honourable members will recall that almost immediately after the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  took office he unexpectedly made a very small increase in age pensions. In fact it was almost an off the cuff announcement - that might assist honourable members to recall the incident. If it had not been for the fact that the Opposition moved for an extension of time he would not have been able to increase the age pension on that occasion. When he made that announcement he said:  _We will follow this immediate pension increase with a fundamental review of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. This review, which has already been commenced, will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emergency decisions into effect for the year 1971-72. 
I am not sure how long ago the Prime Minister took office. 
March 10th. It seems to me that a reasonable time has elapsed for the honouring of this promise. If the Minister for Social Services, who is now sitting very dejectedly at the table, is to say anything at all in this debate he should be very anxious to uphold the reputation, the prestige and the honour of the Prime Minister who unfortunately is not in Australia at the present time. Let me remind the Minister in a very unambiguous and unequivocal way of this assurance that was given by the Prime Minister to undertake this fundamental review and go into all the aspects with the object of bringing decisions into effect for the year 1971-72. We are in the year 1971-72. We have already reached it, so there is a belated implementation of the Prime Minister's undertaking and we cannot wait much longer. Will the Minister for Social Ser-vices remain in his seat tonight without giving some justification or some explanation for the Prime Minister's failure to honour what I believe was the first undertaking he gave to this country? 
I feel very strongly because the matter has been brought to my attention by the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation whose members naturally enough feel very strongly about this matter and regard such announcements by Australian Prime Ministers with some significance. I hope that the day will never come when pensioners or anybody else will not treat announcements by Australian Prime Ministers significantly. The fact of the matter is that the most deserving people in our community have been let down and a promise has been denied. 
As' my colleague has said, 80,000 have missed out. The honourable member for Oxley has made many speeches, radio talks and Press releases about the intention of the Opposition to get on with the job of eliminating the means test and of introducing a national superannuation scheme. Is it realised that the Minister has already acknowledged that 123 countries have a national superannuation scheme? He has actually listed the countries concerned. The countries start with Afghanistan and run through Albania and Algeria to Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia and Zambia. But Australia, which once led the field, has been left behind. There is no need for the Minister to feel insecure in moving in this direction. He has all these precedents upon which he can draw. Then there are people like Professor Downing who have outlined several alternative schemes. I have them available in precis form if the Minister should like some assistance in this matter. I also have the Canadian pension plan which takes into account all the requirements of people who are dependent on social services in the context of a national superannuation scheme. The Prime Minister has given an undertaking about a review. The Minister for Social Services actually got his job because he advocated eliminating the means test and advocated a national superannuation scheme. I believe that both he and the Prime Minister will stand in dishonour unless they start to get on with the job of implementing their promises. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may chose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Has the New South Wales Police Commissioner reported that Aborigines, who comprise only about 1 per cent of the population, represent about 40 per cent of some 15,000 persons in New South Wales convicted for drunkenness? Were only 2 of the cases involving Aborigines defended? What are the reasons for the distressing facts revealed by the Commissioner's report? What will the Government now do to remedy the position? 
 The situation in Pakistan is easily the most critical issue in foreign affairs in the world today. An outbreak of hostilities between India and Pakistan would put such a strain on those countries' alliances that the chance of confining the conflict would be almost non-existent. The conglomerate situation must be viewed in the context of India's favourable relationship with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Pakistan's ties with the United States of America and China. Despite the disinclination of either India or Pakistan to go to war, the tinder box of Bangla Desh and the economic burden of 10 million expatriate refugees from East Pakistan might be self-combustionable. Here then is a highly charged potential catalyst for human disaster which could envelop half the world. Already the Pakistan crisis has reached proportions of human tragedy which exceed those that took place in Vietnam. 
No country, not even Australia, could escape the serious consequences of such a conflagation. Yet our efforts to allay the impending crisis have been both insipid and insignificant. Our promise of aid to the refugees of the order of $5im is not even sufficient to pay the bill for the relief programme for 2 days. India's crushing burden of expenditure on refugee relief is $3m every day, 7 days a week, every week. At this point of time there is no end in sight. Clearly, India must unburden herself of this obligation or face economic ruin. The prospects are that India could use the vehicle of war as a means of unburdening herself of the obligation. Our own Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  wandering the world in search of a cause to lift his declining status, has not responded to the issue of his era. At home his Cabinet, in a cavalier and careless manner, flirts with a dangerous episode in Cambodia. 
Abroad the Prime Minister cringes for the sanctification of the ANZUS Treaty. The Prime Minister's inevitable destiny is that the greatness being thrust upon him will successfully elude him. Here was his chance as a Commonwealth leader to help resolve the crisis between 2 Commonwealth countries - India and Pakistan. I would remind the Committee that it would not be without precedent for an Australian leader to give leadership in great world events. I refer to the former leader,  Dr Evatt,  who prevailed in the United Nations and gave leadership in the Middle East situation, in the creation of 
Israel, and in the area north of Australia when Indonesia was fighting for its independence. When all is said and done, if the Commonwealth does not stand for the right of self-government it stands for nothing at all. If it does not stand for the right of self-government among members of the Commonwealth then degeneration will set in and the Commonwealth will come to be a meaningless entity. 
Our Prime Minister should have advocated the establishment of an international commission to find ways of gaining independence for Bangla Desh. He should have joined  Mrs Gandhi  in her international crusade for the restoration of democracy for the 75 million people in East Pakistan. After all, when the elections took place in that unhappy country the Awami League succeeded in gaining 167 out of 169 seats. It was the will of the people that the six-point plan which substantially represented a plan for self-government, sovereignty and independence, should prevail in Pakistan. If war breaks out the S5im Australian aid programme will be overspent 100 times or more before the conflict ends. Yet the Australian Government has hardly stirred itself on the basic issue to which I have referred. The desperate plea by  Mrs Gandhi,  the Prime Minister of India, for international initiatives has fallen on deaf ears.  Her  call is for the restoration of the will of the people in East Pakistan. Only this course can facilitate the  return  of 10 million refugees to their homeland. 
There is no capacity on the part of the world to meet the increasing burden of the refugee programme. Australia's aid of $5m is an indication of the declining enthusiasm to meet this enduring task. As I have said, the only real solution is to work and strive for the political solution of the problems of that country. Only this course can enable the 75 million people to resume a normal life and regain selfsufficiency. In other words, the people of East Pakistan will have to get back to their farms, to till the fields and to work in the factories, because at this point of time the country is at a virtual standstill. I remind honourable members of the current Press reports which show the critical nature of the situation in Pakistan. Insurgent warfare is already aflame. I quote from the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 29th October in which it is stated: 
The Indian Prime Minister,  Mrs Indira  Gandhi, said today that there were about 150,000 rebel East Pakistanis fighting for an independent Bangla Desh. 
Recently when I attended the international conference on Bangla Desh in Delhi and subsequently visited the refugee camps around Calcutta I found people from many parts of the world who were intent on establishing an international force to help the people of East Pakistan regain independence. The article continues, referring to the Pakistanis fighting for independence in Bangla Desh: 
They are believed to comprise 50,000 former members of the Pakistan Army or para-military organisations and 100,000 young volunteers. 
As you walk through the refugee camps you see thousands of people calling out the war cries of Bangla Desh, with their fists raised, calling for independence and sovereignty and for the release of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman who, as honourable members know, has been detained without trial in Pakistan. No Commonwealth country has a licence to engage in this basic denial of freedom, this denial of the right of trial, and in all the other indecencies which are taking place, without expecting other Commonwealth countries to speak out about them as they are matters with which the Commonwealth is supposed to be concerned. Year after year we go off to our Commonwealth conferences. Sometimes I wonder whether we are talking with our tongues in our cheeks. The Australian Government, being one of the traditional and seasoned members of the Commonwealth, has an obligation in this matter which it has not yet fulfilled. Although there has been a call to arms by India and Pakistan a state of indifference prevails around the world. We are learning from the various Press releases that are coming to hand that both countries are fast putting themselves on a war footing. The 'Australian' of 10th November 1971, under the heading 'India and Pakistan prepare for war* states: 
The Indian Government has prepared a law allowing it to comandeer private transport for defence us:, according to officials in New Delhi. 
The 'Australian' of 8th November gives an account of Indian and Russian transport planes running an airlift to build up spare parts stockpiles for India's fleet of Russian MIG21 and SU7 jet fighters. It goes on to say that Indian defence chiefs say that  Mrs Gandhi  was not indulging in diplomatic hyperbole when she said in New York that India has reached the limit of her endurance in trying to cope with the influx of refugees from East Pakistan. Meanwhile, a special envoy from West Pakistan has just returned from China and has said unequivocally that China is prepared, poised and ready to assist West Pakistan if it becomes necessary to do so. In the face of this situation, I believe that the Prime Minister has failed on his international journey. I indict him because I believe the consequences for Australia and the Asian region are enormous. If our Prime Minister is intent on doing the right thing he should instruct our representatives in the United Nations to seek the appointment of an international commission and otherwise to secure a full scale debate on this matter so that some light can be thrown on it and the lone  Mrs Gandhi  - a great and fearless leader - can be assisted by other members of the Commonwealth. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am sorry to keep the House at this late hour. I want to make a sort statement about the Government's consideration of a second airport for Sydney because the sites at present being considered include the Royal National Park, which happens to be in my electorate but more significantly is a sacred ground to the people of Sydney. I was surprised to receive, I think today, a Press release issued jointly by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and the Minister for Local Government and Highways in New South Wales,  Mr Morton,  MLA. The effect of it is that a special interdepartmental committee made up of representatives of the Treasury, the Department of the Interior, and the Department of Works has decided to narrow down to a very short list 4 possible sites for Sydney's second airport. The sites are Richmond, Somersby, Duffs' Forest and Wattamolla. Wattamolla happens to be part of the Royal National Park. 
It is a beautiful spot. 
If anyone is concerned with any of the other proposed sites he can speak for himself. It is my prerogative to speak for my constituents and their interests. This is not the first time 1 have done so. An earlier proposal was to locate Sydney's international airport at Towra Point which at that time was in my electorate. I caused there to be a very resounding indication of public feeling on this matter to the extent that the then Prime Minister, on the eve of his departure for overseas gathered together all of the local Liberal candidates in the region and made a declaration to the effect that Towra Point would not be considered as the site for Sydney's international airport. That was a very great achievement. Many thousands of people gathered together in what was the biggest meeting ever held in the SutherlandSt George region. 
I am not prepared to stand idly by as another threat looms up which will affect the lives of the people in my constituency as well as the people in the electorate of the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie).  In addition, this proposal could very adversely affect the public interest at large if, in fact, there is to be an intrusion into the Royal National Park. The inclusion of Wattamolla in the short list of possible sites for Sydney's second airport will provoke widespread hostility. The Wattamolla area in the Royal National Park is a popular bushland and seaside picnic area used as a retreat by thousands of Sydney residents each week-end. Any attempt to alienate this or any other part of the Royal National Park for development would be widely regarded as governmental vandalism. The Minister for Civil Aviation and the New South Wales Minister for Local Government who jointly made the announcement that Wattamolla was under consideration by the Commonwealth interdepartmental Committee, should issue a 'hands off' instruction immediately. Both the Minister and the Committee are out of touch with public opinion by even considering the rape of the Royal National Park. Development of an airport complex would mean the destruction of hundreds of acres of natural bushland and drive wildlife from the area. When all is said and done, Sydney is growing at such a pace that it takes on a city the size of Canberra every 2 years. The noise of aircraft and motor vehicles would combine to desecrate the entire environment of one or the State's great tourist attractions. 
Sydney is already desperately deficient in natural bush areas and its requirements will increase with foreshadowed population growth. The Sutherland shire which is in close proximity to the Royal National Park and which now has a population of 150,000 is expected to increase to a population of 250,000 in the foreseeable future. I am sorry that I cannot tell the Minister for Civil Aviation personally, because he is in another place, that the Sutherland Shire Council and the Council of the City of Greater Wollongong are certain to vigorously oppose any alienation of the Royal National Park. As federal member for the area in which the Park is located, 
I can assure the Minister for Civil Aviation that public opinion will be successfully organised to prevent any such scheme proceeding in the Park area. Let me give him this warning: It is very doubtful, even if the Wattamolla site were approved, that workers would be prepared to contribute to the destruction of their environment by making labour available for this project. I have little doubt that if the Wattamolla site is recommended by the Government the Trades and Labour Council of New South Wales will encourage the placement of a job embargo on this project. 
The Queen has lent her patronage to the Park. If necessary she will be petitioned to intervene. I understand that  His  Royal Highness. Prince Phillip, has become the  President  of the Australian Conservation Foundation. I intend, if necessary, to enlist his aid in this matter and to communicate personally with him to test his sincerity in taking on this important role which gives him the prerogative of protecting Australia's environment. If he fails on this matter- 
He should resign. If he fails to fulfil the apparent obligations in regard to these matters, 1 believe that the Australian Conservation Foundation will require him to tender his resignation. Only a ministerial statement excluding Wattamolla from the list of possible airport sites will placate the rising public anxiety on this matter. I hope that I will not have to speak on it again. I hope that my raising the matter in the House tonight will cause a Government spokesman to make an announcement tomorrow indicating that the Government is not intent on the destruction of the Royal National Park by the development of Sydney's second airport there. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.17 a.m. (Thursday) 
Canberra: Parking at New Hotel (Question No. 4429) 
Have surveys been carried out to estimate the number of vehicles that will be parked on and around me site of the new hole) being erected in London Circuit, Canberra, as a result of the hotel being located there. 
If so, what do the surveys reveal. 
What ratio exists between the parking area set aside on the site and the maximum number of vehicles that can be expected to be attracted to the hotel. 
How does his ratio compare with ratios recommended by responsible town planning bodies. 
Is it a fact that the hotel will generate traffic and cause traffic congestion. 
If not, is it considered that no traffic congestion and shortage of parking space is likely to occur because of the location of the hotel on this site. 
Studies on this matter have been carried out. 
The studies indicate that up to 380 cars may need to bc accommodated in public areas, in addition to the 132 cars for which parking provision is made on the hotel site. 
The ratio is approximately 1:4. 
It would compare favourably with ratios used by other town planning bodies for city centre sites. 
The hotel will generate traffic but not necessarily traffic congestion. 
To meet short term demand by the hotel, a temporary parking area with a capacity of 260 cars is to be constructed in Section 6, City, to the north of the hotel site. The remainder of the demand will bc met in the existing parking area inside London Circuit. 
This high level of demand will occur mainly in the evening. During the day, the new parking area will be used to meet the expected increase in office parking demand from the western sector of City. Ultimately the excess hotel demand will be met by a proposed parking structure inside London Circuit serving not only the hotel but the City in general. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully shewelh: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I find myself in agreement with many of the points made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I have often wondered whether he has had one too many needles. He seems to have, quite justifiably in my view, a very sensitive concern about the afflictions which have affected him. But he also seems to over-minimise the afflictions which affect other people and which, in my view, are not the subject of the consideration they ought to be under the health scheme operating in Australia. The honourable member has criticised the honourable member for Kingston who advocated a national dental scheme. I think it is important to draw the parallel that whatever we incur, whatever we enjoy in the way of dental care is paid for by somebody in this country but the regrettable and unfortunate fact is that it is often paid for in an inequitable way, that is to say that families which have a need of dental care cannot afford it. It is terribly important to remember that we should set out to ensure that the public sector of this economy is expanded to the point where the cost of these things is met in a more equitable way. Whether it is in regard to the dental care of people, the diabetic complaints of people or anything of the kind to which the honourable member referred, this is the fundamental and underlying characteristic of the Labor Party's policy. 
We take the view that in many areas you can satisfy yourself and placate your anxieties, that people do not want to be sick just for the sake of being sick. I think it can be fairly contended that people will not undergo operations or surgery unless it is needed. Indeed almost invariably there is the safeguard of doctors being present to conduct the operations because they are required. The Labor Party says one fundamental thing about this and that is that there ought not be economic barriers to treating people with sickness. That is the very basis of our objectivity in this area. We set out to ensure the fulfilment of that aspiration and if there is any tendency on the part of the honourable member to indict the Labor Party for that objectivity I think he will be found wanting in public opinion. 
I would like to talk about the Labor Party programme for a national health scheme. I have only a very short time in this debate. I want to say a few words about handicapped children. The 1959 United Nations Declaration of the Rights of a Child lays down a criterion in this regard. An extract from that declaration reads: 
The child who is physically, mentally or socially handicapped shall be given the special treatment, education and care required by his particular condition. 
It always seems to me that there is something wrong with any society which treats as lavishly as we treat - though insufficiently in my view - the educational needs of ordinary, healthy, wholesome Australian children and then puts right at the end of the queue the child who has a need for special care, the mentally and physically handicapped child. This, like so many other matters, is the subject of a bad approach to priorities on the part of this Government. That is to say, we relegate to charity, to a very considerable degree, the care of the physically and mentally handicapped people in this country: We have a long way to go to measure up to the criteria expressed in, for example, the Australian Public Instruction Act, the effect of which is to make the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  responsible for the provision of education services for all children on a free and compulsory basis. But when it comes to the handicapped child we abandon this principle. 
When I say 'we', to whom do I refer? Who has to accept the responsibility in this matter? There have been precedents in other parts of the world about the application of decent scales of values. The precedents have been brought to the attention of this Government on countless occasions, not just by way of debate but by way of amendments to legislation, yet the Government has deliberately flouted the international requirement, and this is being done in a country which Government supporters like to describe as being among the most privileged and affluent in the world. 
In many parts of Australia there are scores of children with an IQ of less than 30. These children are not eligible to participate in our free and compulsory education system. What happens to these children and their parents? The fact is that the children are often denied and the parents are often required to devote substantial parts of their lives to fulfilling the requirements whichare the product of Government neglect and the denial of these basic principles. Is there any honourable member listening in this chamber who would purposefully set cut to declare that that is the way he would like to see things in this area? Of course not. In other words, it is the subject of indifference. 
I would like to see a blueprint in Australia on the care of the nation's handicapped children. That blueprint should programme the acceptance by the Commonwealth of the total financial burden in the same way as we accept the financial burden for healthy children. It should plan for the provision of centres on a regional basis in every State. It should undertake the training of a specialised professional teaching force and other personnel and facilitate the payment of adequate salaries to these people. In other words this is a blot on the Australian landscape. The running costs of the establishments which care for the handicapped children, these establishments which fill a public vacuum, a governmental vacuum, are not sufficiently met by the Government. These, of course, include staff wages and the capital, running and maintenance costs of vehicles. There is much more I would like to say about this because I am especially concerned with the problems of the New South Wales Handicapped Children's Centre and its Rainbow Lodge. I would like to have presented a case tonight about this organisation's financial needs but I can see 1 will have to do it by way of correspondence to the Minister. 
There is one matter I would like to raise in this area. It concerns the special pharmaceutical needs of handicapped children. Recently the parents of children who were accommodated by the New South Wales Handicapped Children's Centre, which is located in my electorate at Kirrawee, circulated questionnaires. I was astounded to find the high cost of pharmaceuticals. The costs run as high as $1,100 for a 2-year period for a handicapped child. I have made a submission to the Minister.I hope he regards it importantly and seriously. I believe there is a case for special consideration to be given these people. Maybe it could be done along the lines of the pensioner medical service. Maybe the Minister could arrange for prescriptions issued in respect to a handicapped child to be paid for by the Commonwealth in the same way as the pensioner medical service meets the needs of pensioners. 
Finally I would like to make one plea in regard to the cost of artificial limbs, especially for children. Out of the private purse 4,750 artificial limbs are supplied at a cost of $829,000 annually. A parent of a child needing artificial limbs often has to meet the bill on many occasions during the life of that child. As the child grows up he or she will need more artificial legs or arms. I have personal knowledge of the enormous burden which is placed on the families of these children. Here again I have made submissions to the Government but without avail. In the very limited time available in this debate I can only plead that more consideration be given to this very important topic. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Consideration interrupted. 
I will endeavour to curtail my remarks because I know that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and several other honourable members whose electorates are in the vicinity of the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport are anxious to say a few words about this subject. I also know that there is a timetable regarding this debate. It is now 3 years since the Government decided to appoint an interdepartmental committee to investigate the establishment of a second airport for Sydney. It has had 3 years to look over the plans which are readily available in town planning offices in New South Wales and to come up with some proposal about an alternative site. It must have been apparent for years and years that an alternative site was necessary. The extent to which there is a dilemma affecting the lives of people, affecting the homes of people and the value of those homes is a very real indictment on this Government. 
All over the world there has been a need to engage in this anticipation. It is fantastic to see the extent to which other countries have made long term plans. Why is it that we have had this vacillation. Who is the Minister who will apologise to this country at large? I have been astounded at the remarks of 2 members of the Liberal Party of Australia, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  They advocated strongly the siting of a second international airport in an area that will affect thousands of people. I am wondering when the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  will come into the chamber to speak for his constituents who not very long ago rose in their thousands to attend the biggest public meeting ever held in the history of the Sutherland-St George district. 
There may have been 3,000 or 4,000 people in the great underground parking area at the Miranda Fair protesting against the proposal to establish the airport at Towra Point. Regardless of where they want it the honourable member for Cook acquiesced - reluctantly acquiesced, in the long run. We now have Government supporters saying that this is the place to put an airport. We have heard speakers on behalf of the community, spokesmen for local government authorities and others contending that thousands of people would be denied their right to watch their television, to listen to their radio or to receive a phone call in reasonable circumstances. We have heard how schools would have to close down, how hospitals would be affected, how many businesses would not be able to operate and that in general there would be a substantial disruption to the lives of thousands of people. 
There are 150,000 people in the Sutherland shire and the prediction is that the population will rise to 25,000. Yet here we have 2 Liberal members not even caring about the election prospects of the honourable member for Cook when they say that that is the place where an airport ought to go. I do not know where the honourable member for Cook is but I feel that he ought to be invited into the chamber tonight to speak. I would like his help because I am fighting for the people in the Sutherland shire. What is worse still is that we now have 2 Liberal members standing up in this chamber and saying in a most unambiguous, unequivocal and forthright way that 1 thought only bureaucrats or people in remote and abstract parts and places were capable of saying, that the second airport for Sydney should go in the Royal National Park. This is going to cause the greatest furore. 
When I rose to speak on this matter in the adjournment debate last night I had noted that the New South Wales Minister for Local Government and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  had indicated that there was now a short list of alternative sites which included Somersby, north-west of Gosford; Duffy's Forest, north-west of Hurstville; Richmond, near Windsor; and Wattamolla in the Royal National Park. I thought I had better indicate that the idea that it should go in the Royal National Park is by no means an acceptable proposition. But I never for one moment thought that in these times of sensitivity about the environment a member of this chamber would stand up and seriously contend that an airport ought to go in the Royal National Park. I have some regard for the following comments in a Press release of the 2 Ministers 1 have mentioned: 
After considering possible locations the interdepartmental committee eliminated all sites other than Duffy's Forest, Richmond, Somersby and Wattamolla. 
The Commonwealth Government decided that 2 of these sites, Richmond and Somerby, should be considered in preference to Duffy's Forest and Wattamolla. 
There is some consideration on the part of some of the hierarchy in the Commonwealth Government, although there are members of the chamber who would want to put it in the Royal National Park. I told  Mr Brian  White of 2GB on a radio talk-back session today that 1 was prepared to give an assurance that there will be no airport in the Royal National Park. No big public meeting that has been held in Sydney before would compare with what would hapapen if the Commonwealth Government tried to take the Royal National Park away from the people. It is a recreational outlet for the people in the great metropolis of Sydney, lt is sandwiched between Sydney and the bulging city of Wollongong. Millions of people are finding sanctuary in the Royal National Park from the great concrete jungles and the polluted environment of these cities. 
The Royal National Park is an area to which the Queen has lent Royal patronage and over which custodial care is now exercised by no less a person than Prince Philip, who has taken on the great responsibility ' of being  President  of the Australian Conservation Foundation. I have no doubt that Prince Philip's predecessor in that role.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, will join me in the crusade I am about to launch on behalf of the people to protect the Royal National Park. I will certainly have the support of  Mr St  John, who is standing for the protection of the environment, as is indicated by his objection to the Clutha proposals. What a great day it will be when the Royal Flight aeroplane comes into Sydney with Prince Philip, here to speak on behalf of the Australian Conservation Foundation, on board. I intend to invite him to come here. I will send a telegram to him or write to him tomorrow and ' tell him about the challenge of his life that he has on his hands. People around the world would be aghast to think that a government would be intent on taking away from a city like Sydney some of the very inadequate recreational resources it now enjoys. Surveys have been conducted in relation to this matter. The recommendations and the contentions of the experts are that we should be busily engaged in adding to Sydney's recreational space. 
My colleague from the Sydney electorate of Grayndler mentions the wildlife. Can honourable members imagine what would happen to the Royal National Park if an airport complex were to be developed there? I am not talking about just a runway, but also about the hangars, fuel depots and all the trappings as well as the road system on which cars would be tearing up and down. It would be the end of the wallaby, it would be the end of the kangaroo and it would be the end of the bird life in that area. Of course, it would also be the end of the opportunity for thousands of families to go to that lovely park and picnic. It just should not happen, I am concerned that, in particular, the honourable member for Mitchell had the audacity to contend that it should happen. I predict that he will lose his seat at the next election because of his advocacy of the destruction of the Royal National Park. Moreover, I believe that the people of Mitchell will be highly agitated and concerned about the fact that he does not care about his own electorate either. The proposal to put an airport at Richmond is a matter about which one would think the honourable member for Mitchell would be speaking, but he was quite negligent in that respect He is intent on ruining the Royal National Park. I seriously hope that the Government will have second thoughts on this matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
1 thank the House. I will not keep the House for long because I find myself in complete compliance with the remarks oof the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  As he indicated, it was a profound and highly beneficial experience for each of the dele gates to have the opportunity to participate in such a conference, lt is always a great experience when the representatives of 71 nations are thrown together: As the honourable member mentioned from a parliamentary standpoint, 237 different personalities were at the conference. Of course, together with those parliamentarians were members of parliamentary entourages from different countries. They included eminent public servants, Clerks of the House and the like. 
I regarded this conference as most impressive. Australia seemed to be recognised as a country which was expected to give a great lead in connection with a number of matters. The honourable member for Lyne instanced some of the topics which were debated at this conference and these included Britain's entry into the Common Market. I think it was significant that such a large number of members from the Australian delegation - I do not mean only the Commonwealth parliamentary delegation; I include those from the States as well - participated and put the Australian viewpoint. Recently the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been talking about this matter and indicating that there is a need for Australia to be effective in places other than Australia House. He is talking about businessmen and others going into the Common Market countries to put our views. This purpose was very effectively served by the members of the Australian delegation to the 17th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference. 
Similarly, there was a very great need for Australian delegates to be present when there arose the subject - the precise name of which I cannot recall offhand - which involved consideration of the question of apartheid. There is no question that Australia was under attack in this respect, and it was very necessary for us to put the Australian viewpoint. Even those of us who felt that there have been governmental indiscretions in the area of apartheid, such as in approving the recent Springbok tour of Australia, put to advantage Australia's general point of view on this matter. 1 was privileged to lead one of the discussions which dealt with the question of challenges to parliamentary democracy. 
That part of the discussion involved consideration of the question of parliament versus the executive, or the role of parliament in relation to the executive. It was valuable to observe the interest in the matter. It was significant that we were meeting at a time when the situation in Pakistan was such that the Parliament of that country was not officially represented at the Conference. Of course, this resulted from the fact that parliamentary democracy in Pakistan, a Commonwealth country, has been suspended. During the course of the proceedings there was considerable play on the fact that even in the host country of Malaysia there has been suspension of parliamentary practices to some considerable degree as a result of a minority party winning provincial elections. There was the notorious day in Malaysia's history when a great massacre took place. There were processions and other forms of disruption which resulted in the suspension of parliamentary democracy. 
During the course of the debate on this question of parliamentary democracy I took the opportunity to indicate my view that it was time that consideration was given to laying down the criteria for Commonwealth countries regarding such things as the acceptable voting systems. This matter was taken up, so a very valuable debate ensued. I hope that as a result of the consideration afforded to the matter in Kuala Lumpur the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association will consider giving the highest possible priority to it at the 18th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference, because as events are developing around the world it is becoming increasingly : apparent that if the Commonwealth is to stand for anything at all, basic traditions and principles will have to be properly identified. Otherwise we will find that more countries will go the way that Pakistan has gone. Pakistan, a Commonwealth country, has deprived the people under its jurisdiction of the ordinary democratic rights to which people in Commonwealth countries ordinarily are accustomed. 
Certain personalities who have accompanied Australian delegations to Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences over the years are highly regarded in an international sense at these conferences. One such person is the  Clerk  of this 
House,  Mr Alan  Turner, who again distinguished himself. Of course, he attended the Conference as an aide to the Australian delegation, but he was accepted as being one who could be relied on in regard to procedural matters generally, and many delegates - if not the Conference as a whole - accepted him as one of the guiding hands at the Conference. As I understand it, the Conference at Kuala Lumpur may have been the last occasion on which Mi Turner will have the opportunity to participate in these conferences, and as I have had the pleasure of being in previous delegations with him, I understand his value at the conferences, and I should like to pay a tribute to the service he has given in this regard. 
I think it goes without saying that  Sir Alister  McMullin, the former  President  of the Senate, can be similarly regarded. I say it goes without saying' because  Sir Alister,  a former parliamentarian, was invited as a special guest to the Conference in Kuala Lumpur, and he was the only special guest invited. Of course, he has had experience extending, I think, over decades, and his name is very much to the fore as one who has helped to make the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association what it is today. So we Australian parliamentarians were fortunate in having had the benefit of the guiding hand of both  Mr Turner  and  Sir Alister  McMullin. 
There are only two other matters to which I want to refer. Firstly, the hospitality extended by the Malaysian branch was of a very high order and was appreciated by all the delegates who attended. Secondly, I believe that the Australian delegation probably was disadvantaged in some measure by the fact that we were not accompanied by our own Hansard staff. It is an established fact that the Australian accent is regarded by international Hansard people as the most difficult of all to comprehend and that Australian speeches are very difficult to report. It was significant that the problems experienced in this regard were common to both Government and Opposition members of the Australian delegation. Some of us found it very difficult to identify our speeches when we read the Hansard account of them - such is the Australian accent. If this state of affairs is to continue, I believe that there could be a great deal of merit in arranging for future Australian delegations to take their own Hansard reporters with them. I would hate to tell the House of the way in which my own speeches were misinterpreted or misreported, but 1 can assure the House that this matter caused considerable embarrassment to a number of Australian delegates. Indeed it resulted in incorrect emphasis being given to parrs of the speeches that we made. 
I am pleased to report that all members of the Australian delegation at the 17th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference worked together very harmoniously, and I believe that we put the Australian parliamentary scene in a very significant way before the Commonwealth parliamentarians assembled. I should like to conclude by saying that the Opposition members in the delegation took the opportunity to visit neighbouring countries, and I believe that this is one of the beneficial by-products of Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences. For example,  Senator Bishop,  who was one of the Opposition members in the delegation, went to Japan to study economic matters there. The honourable member for Grey  ("Mr Wallis),  who is presently in the chamber, undertook a trip to Vietnam.  His  visit happened to coincide with the period preceding the elections in Vietnam, and this proved to be very valuable because he was one of the very few Australian observers of the elections in that country. For my own part, as some honourable members know. I was able to extend my trip from Kuala Lumpur to India, to participate in the international conference on Bangla Desh and to visit the refugee camps. I think that all these discussions and visits add up to a very beneficial total product of participation by honourable members in Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences. 
The debate on the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1971 is nothing like the inspiring debate which one would expect it to be. Some 15 or 16 years ago I started to make my first speeches on housing in this place, and 1 think it is a fair thing to say that I have never heard a less inspiring debate on housing than the one which is presently taking place. There is an atmosphere of despondency over the whole Parliament. On previous occasions the view has been taken that there has been an opportunity for the Parliament to breathe life into the next Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, but the fact is that we will not have any more Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. We have reached the end of the tether. We have had these agreements for 26 years. There has been a Commonwealth involvement in housing and a preparedness on the part of the Commonwealth to help condition the States' attitudes to housing. But now, as I have said, we have reached the end of the line - at least while this Government remains in office. 
Conversely, the policy of the Australian Labor Party is to stimulate a very vigorous Commonwealth involvement in housing and an effective partnership with the States. We propose that there should be a Commonwealth Department of Housing, Urban Affairs and Regional Development, and we have a very highly developed programme which is designed to give effect to those objectives. But the innocuous provisions in this Bill demonstrate the pathetically puerile outlook of the Government and the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in respect of the housing needs of the Australian people. Stripped of its verbose verbiage and reduced to its basic principles, this new measure represents nothing more than an inadequate handout to the States to meet the crushing and rising interest burden on the State housing programmes. The proposals do not even provide for adjustments to meet future increases in the bond rate and the interest rates which will be paid as a consequence by the States. The proposals contained in this Bill are to represent the Commonwealth's main contribution to housing for the next 30 years - if there is no change of government. That is to say, from now until the turn of the century - to the year 2000  -  Australians are to be deprived of major Commonwealth initiatives designed to overcome the nation's housing needs. 
Without leadership and financial support from Canberra the States, for example, can never build a new city; they can never get people out of the expanding slums in the great cities, nor can they provide houses for the rising generations. Yet this indifference which has already crept through the ranks of the Government regrettably seems to be sweeping through the Parliament. Nothing in this Bill - this new McMahon line on housing, the 1971 Liberal master plan for the next 3 decades - is designed to slacken the spiralling cost of building land which has alreadyrisen in State capitals by 150 per cent over the last 10 years and which is now rising at unprecedented rates. Yet this is supposed to be the vision splendid - the hope of the homeless which has been eulogised by some honourable members opposite. They appear to be compatibly uninspired bv the Minister for Housing. The act of making public funds - taxpayers' funds - available for housing can be wasteful unless governments ensure that the principle of value for money is upheld. But this Government just does not seem to care what is happening to this money, and 1 will talk about this aspect shortly. 
An inevitable sequel to this Bill is that the S2.75m which the States will receive each year as compensation for the higher interest they are required to pay for their housing loans, will be swallowed up in rising land costs, and this will be reflected in the rental and purchase price of homes built by State housing authorities throughout Australia. The fact of the matter is that the States sought from the Commonwealth money at 4 per cent interest to build homes for low income earners. 
That was in November 1970. as my colleague the honourable member for Reid has mentioned. But instead the Commonwealth has imposed a 7 per cent interest burden - an unprecedented interest rate, as I think the Minister would be prepared to concede, although I think he might find it safer to say nothing at all. The Commonwealth has abandoned the principle of providing a concessional rate which is 1 per cent less than the ruling bond rate, and I think the Minister would agree that that is a proper thing to say. To compensate for the higher rale of interest, a gram of S2.75m .a year is to he made to the States over the next 30 years. The immediate reaction to these proposals has been disappointment on the part of the State Ministers for Housing, ft was hoped that after 25 or 26 years experience with other State housing agreements the nev. scheme would he based on an effective Commonwealth-State partnership with the Commonwealth accepting a proper share of responsibility. What has happened in fact? No new ideas are embodied in the new scheme and the best features of the old scheme have been abandoned. 
I was interested to see what the Sydney Sun' had to say about this matter. The political correspondent for that paper,  Mr John  O'Hara, soon after the State Ministers had reported to the Press what the Commonwealth intended to do in this matter, said: 
State Government circles expect the new CommonwealthStates housing agreement for lowincome earners lo break down within a year because of rising land and housing costs. 

 Mr O'Hara went on to say that this was the real reason why the Sta'.es had decided to accept the scheme. What a terrible thing. The States have accepted it because they believe it will break down. The only way to stop the Commonwealth is to blow the whole thing up and start again.  Mr O'Hara  went on to state: 
According to Government sources, this consideration lay behind the New South Wales acceptance last Friday of Commonwealth dictated agreement terms. 
In other words, it was only accepted because it would prove a failure. He went on to contend that  Mr Dunstan  and the New South Wales Housing Minister,  Mr Stephens,  were 'Operating on the conviction that their Status needed immediate aid financially from the Commonwealth, and that the terms of this aid, after 12 months, would become manifestly inadequate'. The Sun' claimed that  Mr Dunstan  acted on the conviction that the situation would change dramatically after the next Federal election with a Labor government in power. 
There is the situation. The States have reluctantly agreed to acquiesce in this matter because they know they cannot possibly carry on under the proposals which are the subject matter of this Bill. The whole arrangement is going to come crashing down within 12 months or less. There will be a hopeless situation in regard to housing the low income families in the various Sta es. The Premiers believed that accepting this agreement was the only way they could get the Commonwealth to consider the implementation of an effective scheme. There is not one piece of evidence to show that the long queue for State housing authority homes will be reduced because of this Bill. In fact, there is every indication that the queue will get longer and longer. In New South Wales, the waiting time for a 3-bedroom home now stands a' 4 years, and for elderly single people at about 6 years. At the end of June this year that State had no less than 37.641 applicants listed for 3-bedroom homes. Each year the list of outstanding applicants grows longer in New South Wales and the situation generally is the same in every other State in the Commonwealth. 
This Bill does not even specify that additional funds will be available for the total State works and housing programme. How does the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Housing at the table - this nonchalant Minister - reconcile this disinclination to assist States with housing with the bulging Budget surplus which I think stands at a record level of $630m. Is it unreasonable that the State Housing Ministers are expecting the Commonwealths coffers to be opened to help them alleviate what is now the worst housing crisis in Australia's history? What is the reason why this has not been done? The Commonwealth seems to be completely indifferent and quite incapable of acting on any of the matters which are causing this housing situation to deteriorate. A short time ago I was looking at a newspaper cutting which is headed '6.9 per cent Cost Rise in Housing'. This article says, in effect, that the cost of materials for housing building in the 6 State capitals rose by 6.9 per cent in the 12 months to August 1971. Is the Minister concerned about that? He must know that this increase is being passed on to young couples without much help from this Government. In Melbourne and Brisbane the cost rose by 7.8 per cent. In Adelaide it rose by 7.5 per cent, Perth 6.8 per cent and Sydney 5.6 per cent. In that year the cost of a number of very important building components rose at a staggering rate. Steel prices rose by 9.9 per cent; cement by 9.6 per cent; concrete mix and sand by 9.4 per cent; and timber boards and joinery by 8.1 per cent. Of course, housing is the first casualty when these prices are allowed to spiral in this way. In the United States of America action is taken by the administration to keep the price of such basic com modities as steel and cement at a reasonable level. But there is no preparedness to do anything along these lines here. 
I remember very well the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  when he was Prime Minister in March of this year making a statement expressing concern about the deployment of our resources in the building industry. He was very concerned that there was a tendency to utilise so much of our resources in the building of great office blocks - nondwellings. I think at that time the expenditure in the dwelling areas had fallen by about 6 per cent. He raised this matter by way of a special statement. He said in the statement of 5th March: 
The Treasurer and I met this morning for discussions about the growth in the private nondwelling building construction area which, as I indicated in my address to the cation on 29th January last, is one of the matters we have under examination in our attack on threatening inflationary growth. 
He went on to say that he met representatives of the building industry and learned that the value of office blocks on which construction commenced in 1969-70 was S263m. He said that he wanted this curtailed. He said that there was 11.2 million square feet of office space being provided and that this was significantly greater than the annual demand for new office space. He went on to say that the Treasurer and he had agreed to arrange regular quarterly meetings with representatives of the industry so that this matter could be brought under effective control and that reports would be given on the results of these meetings. But the attitudes which were espoused by the Prime Minister of the day, the right honourable member for Higgins, have now been abandoned and the present Minister and the Government just do not seem to care how we utilise our resources. Here again, we have a matter for very great regret. As I look through the schedule of areas where land prices are soaring I can have only great pity for the young people in Australia. 
Yet it is staggering that while land prices are rising in all the other capital cities land prices in Canberra have remained steady for about 5 years. Here we have the most apparent lesson of all which the Government is quite unprepared to take to heart. We could do the same kind of things in the States as we are, in fact, doing in Canberra where we have the advantage of utilising Crown land on a leasehold system. There being vast areas of Crown land available for development in other States, we should be able to invoke a similar system there. But instead we read as 1 read here from an article in the Sydney 'Daily Mirror' of land prices rising in the Belrose-French's Forest area from S5.600 in 1963 to $13,564 today. In Ryde and Epping land costs rose from $4,000 in 1962 to $16,000 in 1968. In Sutherland these costs increased from $5,680 in 1962 to SI 2,000 in 1967. So the Figures go on and on and on. 
Young couples within my own electorate some 17 miles from Sydney are now paying between $10,000 and $15,000 for a block of land. This Government just does nol seem to care about this situation. Approximately 68,000 marriages in which the bridegroom is under 26 years of age occur each year. Imagine the plight of the-.e people. These couples are blessed and sanctified by the church but almost completely disregard by the Commonwealth Government. Once, until 1950, a developer might enter an area, clear it of a few trees, (rump a bit of gravel down and then the land would be ready for a house to be erected on it. Now, as someone said this afternoon, all kinds of requirements apply. There is a need for sealed roads, kerbing and guttering, the provision of water and sewerage and allocation of parts of an area for development as parks and playgrounds. Sometimes some 10 per cent of an area is set aside for this purpose. Experts say that the cost of these extra amounts on average to approximately $3,000 a block. 
The cost of development of roads, footpaths, kerbing, guttering and parks at one time was met by ratepayers. But these costs became a burden on ratepayers when calculated on a municipal or shire basis. This situation now is that the cost of these developments falls on individual couples and the price of the land they purchase is increased accordingly. It seems to me that some special consideration must be taken of this fact. The Australian Labor Party proposes to do something towards that end. We know of the burden of interest rates. We propose to assist young couples in this regard. We will assist particularly those who, in the early years of their married life, are paying so much by way of interest charges. A home buyer now must pay twice as much in interest as he pays in meeting his loan commitment. One in every 4 home buyers is forced now to outlay more than one-third of his weekly earnings to pay off his borrowings for house and land. 
This measure is a most disappointing one. I believe that the Australian housing situation will degenerate in a most serious way. I only hope that the Minister will take the opportunity to see what comparable countries are doing. In other countries, national governments are playing an effective role in an effective partnership with their states to meet the current problems of the day and to introduce necessary panaceas to meet the problems which young people and people in particular categories are experiencing. I commend to the House the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Reid which advocates special consideration for the housing needs of pensioners, migrants, Aborigines, deserted wives and similarly disadvantaged people. 
I want a couple of minutes to join my two colleagues in seeking from the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  some explanation of the reasons for this Homes Savings Grant Bill. Its effect is to deprive people who obtain houses from State housing authorities of the benefits of that legislation. If they save money in the approved way they are unable to get the Government grant which is made available to other people who direct such savings to the acquisition of a home. There is now no case for discrimination against persons who purchase State housing authority homes so far as the home saving grant is concerned. We have just concluded the debate on the States Grants (Housing) Bill. The effect of the course of action taken is to take away from the States certain benefits which operated previously. The whole tenor of the debate just concluded was about the development which the Government has initiated and which relates to the interest rates charged to the States for their housing loans. Previously, funds were made available at a rate which was 1 per cent below the bond rate but that procedure is to operate no longer. Instead, a grant of $2. 75m a year is to be made. 
I may be wrong and I am seeking advice from the Minister but as 1 understand the position, just as loan money which is made available to the States for housing purposes is directed to the purposes of the State housing authorities, 30 per cent of the total amount is directed to building societies. If that is the case I would like the Minister to tell me why the people who secure homes through building societies are treated any differently from the people who obtain loans from the State housing authorities. That seems to me to be a straightforward proposition. The fact of the matter is that the States get a certain amount of loan money for housing and a contribution is made in respect of that loan money for housing. That contribution does not discriminate between the various categories of recipients. One category of recipient is the State housing authority and the homes provided by that authority. The other category of recipient is the building societies and the homes provided by the building societies. If they are both being assisted to a like extent from Commonwealth funds, why is it that homes provided by building society loans can attract assistance under the Homes Savings Grant Act whereas homes provided by State housing authorities do not attract this assistance? 
I do not think that the Minister would want to advocate that we should take away the eligibility of persons who receive building society loans, people who have saved their money and directed it towards the acquisition of a home through a building society, and deprive them of the opportunity to benefit under the Homes Savings Grant Act. But the Minister has as much right to advocate that as he has to advocate that people purchasing homes through State housing authorities should be deprived of that benefit. When all is said and done it is often the case that people who have saved money to acquire a home through a State housing authority have worked a lot harder to accumulate the money than have other people. A study of applications received by the various State housing authorities will reveal that in the main they come from the relatively low income earners. I understand that in South Australia something like one-third of the applicants receive less than $50 a week. I understand that in New South Wales about 25 per cent of the applicants for housing commission homes receive less than $50 a week. These people who are seeking to purchase a home and who are receiving such a low income must find it difficult to save, but if they do save sufficient to attract a grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act surely they are the ones who should be entitled to receive it. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the effect of which is to increase the limit of the assessed value of a dwelling house from $17,500 to $20,000. In doing this I want to make it clear that I have not been an enthusiast about the homes savings subsidy scheme. In the first place, I regarded this scheme as another of the Government's fiascos and I took the view that people with considerable incomes received a subsidy on their savings while the sociological disadvantaged people who did not have the same saving capacity, and who needed assistance more, often got nothing at all or in any case found it harder to get something. I also contended at the time the legislation was introduced that nobody would benefit anyway and as events have turned out this is what happened because land prices increased as an immediate consequence. So no-one benefited in the short term. 
Then I took the view that the Government introduced the home savings grant scheme as a sort of illusionist trick. Because of the high price of land young couples were forced to go out to work for several years to pay off their land, and the double taxation that the Government collected in that period from those young people was far in excess of the value of the grant that they received - the $500. Of course then there were many restrictions. There were age barriers and things of this kind, some of which have been ironed out in the interim. But the matter in relation to which the honourable member for Reid has voiced his concern has not been ironed out because the limit to the value of a house which attracts the home savings grants is $17,500. This is not a reasonable limit. A person does not have to be wealthy to build or buy in many parts of the capital cities a home the value of which exceeds $1 7.500. 
If honourable members come out to the area where I live they can see what I am talking about. I live 17 miles out from Sydney, and Parkes Development is selling land all over the place there at between $12,000 and $15,000 a block. We have to go further out than 17 miles south of Sydney to get land cheaper than that. 1 know that is unbelievable but it is nevertheless the consequence of this Government's policy. After a person has bought land at that high price he then has to put a house on it, so we can imagine the figure to which the price to which a house and land can get. As a consequence of this many people who are wage earners - the 2- income families, the young people who go out to work - find themselves buying homes the value of which excludes them from eligibility under the home savings grant scheme. 
For the year 1970-71 in the State of New South Wales no fewer than 218 applications were rejected on these grounds. In the whole of. Australia 614 applicants were rejected for the year 1970- 71, and in the preceding year 859 people were rejected. So there is a good case to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid, and I would remind the House once again that there are 2 aspects of it. One is the one to which I referred concering the need to lift the value of the house which attracts a grant under the home savings grant scheme and the other is the need to eliminate the discrimination which, if this Bill is passed, unjustifiably will operate in respect of people who secure homes from State housing authorities. 
Thursday, 25 November 1.971 
In resuming the debate on the War Service Homes Bill I want to say, as other honourable members have said, that the war service homes institution in Australia is highly regarded right throughout the community. Indeed, it has brought great benefit to large numbers of ex-servicemen. The war services homes principle has been upheld by both Liberal and Labor governments, and it goes without saying that this will always be so in the future. The War Service Homes Act was enacted in 1918 and it came into operation on 6th March 1919. It is interesting to note that some 320,000 ex-servicemen have been assisted with loans over that period. I understand that the assets of the War Service Homes Division are in the vicinity of $936m, and despite the benefits extended to ex-servicemen, the fact is that this great institution runs at a profit. I was intrigued to hear the honourable member for Bennelong (Sir John Cramer) express the view that exservicemen were being subsidised. The operation of the War Service Homes Act is not a subsidising process at all. As I have indicated, it is a very profitable venture. 
The war service homes scheme is financed by allocations of money from Consolidated Revenue. The money comes from revenue, not from loans. Of course, from that standpoint very beneficial results are derived for ex-servicemen and also for Consolidated Revenue. The country al large has benefited enormously at the expense, if you like, of ex-servicemen. Large profits have been made out of providing war service homes for Australian ex-servicemen. That may come as a surprise to the honourable member for Bennelong. If he is harbouring any kind of malice or anxiety because he thinks that we have been subsidising ex-servicemen, let me encourage him to get 'hat idea out of his head for all time, because it is not so. As I have said, actually we have been deriving considerable profits from the operation of the war service homes scheme. In fact, 1 understand that this year we have spent some $61 m on the scheme, but we have collected $16m more than we have spent. 
I am just indicating the position for this year. If the honourable member for Mitchell were to look at the operations of the scheme during the years, from 'he time of its inception - and I am sorry that I have not had time to do so - he would be able to establish that this fabulous rate of profit has been made. As my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has said, if the Government can do this in regard to the provision of war service homes for ex-servicemen, it can also do i'. in regard to the provision of homes for other people. The honourable member for Bennelong is trying to interject. If he has a point of view to put I would be quite happy to discuss this matter with him because what 1 have said is unquestionably true. If it is necessary, on the mo' ion for the adjournment of the House I will produce figures to substantiate the points I have been making. 
The war service homes picture has not always been a rosy one. The honourable member for Bennelong talked about the benevolent attitude which the Government has adopted towards ex-servicemen in the 20-odd years it has been in office. But the fact is that for many years there were great queues for war service homes and the waiting periods extended over 15 or IS months. Thousands and thousands of exservicemen have been required to accept temporary finance at high rates of interest from all kinds of high interest money lenders and to repay those loans at 12 or 13 per cent interest. After financing those temporary loans the ex-servicemen have had to start afresh with their war service loans. T think that the honourable member for Bennelong and the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is sitting at the table, would be prepared to concede the truth of what I am saying. For years and years the Government adopted an altitude of indifference towards the provision of war service homes. Year after year the Opposition contended that strong efforts should be made to take up the backlog of applications for war service homes, but 'he Government did not respond until a short time ago. 
Let us consider what happened last year. The memories of honourable members opposite are very short in this regard. Do not challenge me on this question because I have the substantiation here. LaU year there was a 6-months delay before exservicemen received war service loans. Why was that? This year there is a Budget surplus of $630m. Such is the state of the economy and the affluent nature of the Government's finances, yet last year it obliged ex-servicemen to queue in order to borrow money at high rates of interest, lt kept them waiting for 6 months for war service loans. The Government has had a record of stop-go policies, and it has not always been benevolent in its attitude towards ex-servicemen regarding the transportation of their loans, the provision of second loans and such matters. 
The Opposition is contending that the Government should raise the level of war service loans. It is ridiculous that at this moment an ex-serviceman can borrow only $8,000 for a war service home. The honourable member for Bennelong ha-&lt; the audacity and the hide to stand up in this place and give the impression that the 
Government really cares about exservicemen. Just a short time ago in another debate the Government was lauding the actions of the ex-servicemen who have returned from Vietnam. Of course, we all applaud what has happened there, but if one looks at the level of benefits that are paid under the Repatriation Act to servicemen who have lost an arm or a leg, one is unable to .support the contention that the Government has been benevolent in its attitude towards ex-servicemen. We are asking that the amount of a war service loans should be increased from S8.000 to a larger figure. I know thai  lbc  Government is proposing to raise the figure to $9,000,  hut  we are saying that it should be larger than that. We say that it ought to be approximately $15,000, because that is the amount of money which ex-servicemen are in fact paying for their homes. 
The Government has adopted a petty and pedantic attitude in these matters. There has not been an original idea from the Government on the provision of war service homes for many years. Why should not we be thinking of expanding the war service homes scheme? There are many are'as into which it can justifiably be expanded. At the present time a serviceman has to be a member of the special overseas force before he is eligible to receive benefits, such as the preferential interest rate of 3$ per cent, under the war service homes scheme. We take the view that die scheme should be expanded to include other people. In fact, we say that its benefits should be available to all servicemen - the members of the permanent forces who indicate their willingness to get to war and to accept a military career. What would be wrong with extending the scheme to include all national servicemen - the young men of our country? 1 have already indicated that the war service homes scheme is not costing the Government anything; in fact the Government is making money out of it. What is wrong with making the scheme an enticement to young men of this country to serve in the forces? If we did this sort of thing we would be able to eliminate compulsory national service training. The provision of benefits such as this could be one of the attractions to entice young men to make a career in the Services. I suggest to the Government that it should earnestly consider these proposals. 
There are many other things which could be done. Because of the profitable nature of this scheme in my view the Government ought to be prepared to extend it to people such as public servants and residents of the Northern Territory. I think that a contention was made in this regard even by the honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who could hardly be regarded as the most intrepid of thinkers so far as these matters are concerned. There is an incredible reluctance on the part of the Government to take a compassionate and even a human attitude in regard to .such matters as the request for second assistance. 
My colleague the honourable member for Barton  [Mr Reynolds)  has a very great involvement in the affairs of ex-servicemen. He takes a great interest in the Returned Service's League of Australia and is always readily available lo ex-servicemen. He told me the other day that he had made representations on behalf of several exservicemen who had sought second assistance under the war service homes scheme; that is to say, they had already received a loan and they were asking for another loan. In effect they were asking for approval lo use the first loan for the acquisition of a second house which suited their convenience. One ex-serviceman, who f think my honourable colleague said was a TPI pensioner, built his house at a location near where an expressway has now been constructed. Six lanes of traffic roar up and down not far from his house. Naturally this ex-serviceman, who receives a pension for his war condition wants to be able to transfer his war service home loan (o finance the purchase of a dwelling in another area. But the request made on his behalf by the honourable member for Barton was rejected. Other people are in a similar situation. 
The honourable member for Barton has told me of people who have been moved from one Stale to another, lt is incredible that the Commonwealth, in these cases, often deprives itself of the portability of ils public servants because of its unwillingness and its unpreparedness to provide second assistance or a second loan for a public servant who is compulsorily being moved from one State to another. There are many cases of this kind. I had a constituent who asked for consideration for his application for an additional grant. He bad received a second loan or second assistance because - I speak from memory - his house was to be resumed by the Education Department of New South Wales provided the Commonwealth would make second assistance available to him. He received second assistance and relocated himself in another house. However, he took only a small proportion of the , loan to which he was entitled. Subsequently he made a request for additional assistance. He wanted to take up the balance of his second loan because he wished to provide a sewerage service to the second house. He was told that he was unable to get additional assistance, which is made available to enable people to enlarge their homes and provide sewerage and things of that nature, because he had successfully applied for second assistance. Just how can we reconcile those things? What justification is there for an attitude of that kind? 
I want to make some brief reference, in the time that remains to me, to the justification of the case for increasing the loan from $8,000 to $15,000. 1 am aware that the purpose of this Bill is to lift the loan to $9,000, but in my view that is not sufficient. I have some statistics to utilise in this regard but,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wonder whether 1 could do this after dinner? 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
Before the dinner adjournment I was advocating the expansion of the war service homes scheme and contending that rather than the war service homes scheme being a liability on the nation it in fact has made a profit. This is because the finance for war service homes is not derived from loan funds at all but is an allocation from Consolidated Revenue. I was making the point also that the war service homes scheme because it is making a profit even at its low rate of interest, 31 per cent, should be used as the basis for a scheme that would give housing opportunities to many other Australians in addition to ex-servicemen. I certainly believe that all ex-servicemen, including those who are at present doing national service or who have done national service, could be encouraged to undertake a military career if they had the war service homes scheme as an incentive. Similarly a lot more can be done to expand the scheme in the short term into the Public Service area and into the Northern Territory. 
More importantly, there is no reason why the Government cannot show a bit more enthusiasm and take a very hard, efficient and effective look at the economics of the scheme. And if what I have been saying is the fact, that is, that it is making a profit - and I believe this to be the fact - we should take the business of financing homes out of the realm of money lenders and give the young people of Australia the opportunity to get housing at a reasonable rate of interest. To my way of thinking there is no reason in the world why this should not be done. We have been operating the war service homes scheme on the present basis since 1918 and this Government has been in office for a long time. It has been there especially during the period of rising land prices and housing costs and there is good reason now why we should be looking at this scheme to see whether it can be a kind of millennium for everyone and whether it is the kind of principle that should be expanded. When all is said and done, there have been many ex-servicemen who believed they had an entitlement under the war service homes scheme and who because of their belief applied for a loan but were unsuccessful. The fact is that since the scheme has been in operation something like 553,000 applications have been made and 321,000 have been approved. So there are 227,000 ex-servicemen who believed they had an entitlement and who have been rejected. Of course, there are many others who have never submitted an application at all. 
The honourable member for Bennelong, who preceded me in this debate, was contending that there is no need to increase the maximum amount of the war service home loan which at present stands at $8,000. The Government intends under the Bill now before the House to increase it by $1,000 to $9,000. However, the honourable member believes it is unnecessary to increase the amount and says in effect that if these people want more money they should borrow it. He has advocated an arrangement whereby these people should be able to obtain coverage from the Commonwealth Housing Insurance Corporation. This is an expensive process. There is a high rate of interest involved and the person borrowing the money has to incur the costs involved, f do not believe this action is necessary. If they do have to obtain a second mortgage it ought to be sufficient for the Commonwealth Government to give its imprimatur to the lending authorities, lt ought to be sufficient for the Commonwealth Government to say to any lending authority in respect of a person who is an approved war service home applicant and who seeks the approval of the Commonwealth to obtain a second mortgage: 'Yes, he has the collateral'. That should be sufficient and the great financial resources of the Commonwealth should be there to back him up. lt should not be necessary for these ex-servicemen to incur additional expense. 
I want to mention just a couple of figures to show why the war service home loan should be lifted to a limit of SI 5,000 from the $9,000 it will be as a consequence of this Bill. The figures in the annual report of the War Service Homes Division indicate that the average cost of dwelling houses has been much higher than the loan which has been made available. The average cost of building a house in New South Wales has been $14,990 and there are many other figures which time will not permit me to enunciate now. Between 1961 lo 1971 the increase in the average cost of a war service home has been $6,000. One can imagine the kind of increase that will take place in the future. It is sensible and reasonable, as the Opposition proposes to show by its amendments to this Bill, that we should raise the limit on war service home loans from $8,000 to $15,000 because this is in keeping with the real costs that ex-servicemen are incurring at the present time. The alternative to doing this is to force the ex-servicemen in this country, who have been eulogised this afternoon, onto the mortgage market and into the hands of money lenders so that they will be spending large amounts of money meeting high interest rates. I believe that this is completely unnecessary. 
I think that the Committee has been interested to hear the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and also the interjections made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  These very significant developments have occurred during the course of this debate. Earlier in the debate, during the second reading stage, several honourable members stood alone on this side of the chamber when we were contending that the war service homes scheme was a profitable venture and that the Government should be able to extend it without cost to the country. Of course, this is the nature of the amendment that we have moved. Let me say at the outset in connection with the remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe, if I have not misunderstood him, that he is making the point that if the Opposition were to move an amendment which was designed to accommodate present members of the forces he would be prepared to support it. 
I would remind the honourable member of the terms of the amendment which is before the Committee at the present time. They are as follows: 
Australian Soldier1 means a serving member of the Forces or a former member who has been honourably discharged. 
If I. may engage in this aside,  Mr Chair-,  man. would I be correct in assuming that the honourable member for La Trobe would be prepared to support an amendment which did not contain the words after the word 'Forces' in the present amendment? That is to say, he stands for the proposition that eligibility for war service homes should be extended to people who can be described as Australian soldiers, because that means serving members of the Forces. If we moved an amendment which stated: '"Australian Soldier" means a serving member of the Forces', I understand that the honourable member for La Trobe would be willing to support us in that regard. 
I have an indication from the honourable member for Reid that by making a correction to the present amendment we would be able to accommodate the honourable member for La Trobe, because he has been talking about members of the Navy more than about soldiers. 
Of course. If the word 'serviceman' were substituted for the word 'soldier' in the amendment, the honourable member would be more effectively accommodated. 
Very well. I have an assurance from the honourable member for Reid, who is leading for the Opposition in this debate as the shadow Minister for Housing, that that amendment could now be moved on behalf of the Opposition. I have the imprimatur of the honourable member for Reid who has handed me a proposed amendment which changes the amendment which has been before the Committee up to this point of time to read: 
Australian Serviceman' means  a  serving member of the Forces. 
Of course, the intention is to provide war service homes benefits to people who fit that definition, lt has been a significant debate. 1 am pleased that the honourable member for La Trobe has brought a little sense to bear on this matter from the Government's point of view. I was particularly interested to hear the honourable member for Moreton, a former Minister for the Navy, interjecting this afternoon and indicating bis willingness, too, to do something towards this end. This afternoon we had crocodile tears from the ex-service Government supporters who were expressing their approval of the service given by the Australian forces in Vietnam. Of course, we all share in those expressions of approval. But we took the opportunity to say that more consideration should be extended to Australia's serving members by way of providing improved repatriation benefits and of course war service home benefits. Here we have the first test after that significant debate this afternoon, and it provides an opportunity for Government supporters more or less to put their money where their mouths are, if I can express it like that, and show that they are fair dinkum in what they say. 
The honourable member for Moreton, a former Minister for the Navy, has indicated that he approves of the proposed amendment, too. I hope that he has the interests of the members of the naval forces at heart to the extent that the honourable member for La Trobe has indicated and is prepared to go along with this proposed amendment. Now that we will have a vote on this amendment in a short time, it seems that we will have the support of at least 2 Government supporters. 1 am pleased to see that the honourable member for Moreton has come into the chamber because I have been talking about him. 
Certainly. 1 have been expressing warm approval of the fact that he indicated that he would go along with the idea of providing war service home benefits to serving members of the forces. I know that the honourable member for Moreton will be pleased to know that the Opposition has decided to submit an amendment to that effect. Already we have an indication that the honourable member for La Trobe is prepared to assist us. 
Exactly. We are simply saying that the definition of 'Australian Serviceman' means a serving member of the forces. The amendment is designed to extend eligibility for assistance under the War Service Homes Act to serving members of the forces. My colleague the honourable member for Reid would be pleased to make a copy of the proposed amendment available to the honourable member for Moreton. I do not want to talk at great length about this matter. I had proposed to outline the way in which a serviceman is described in the War Service Homes Act. 1 do not know that it is necessary to do so. One effective summary is along these lines: Eligibility - that is eligibility for a war service home - in respect of current service in the forces is derived from the period of service as a member of the forces for the purposes of the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962-1968. 'Member of the forces' is defined in the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act as meaning a' person who while a member of the defence forces has served on special service. 
Of course, there are many members of the forces who are in far off places rendering their valuable service. The honourable member for Moreton knows, for example, that on the Equator on Los Negros or Mantis Island many members of the Royal Australian Navy are making very significant sacrifices under- very difficult conditions and that Australian servicemen are stationed in Darwin, elsewhere in the Northern Territory, Papua New Guinea and Singapore. The fact that they do not get into a theatre of war is obviously not the point. A serviceman can go to Vietnam, never hear a shot fired, come back and be eligible for a war service home loan. Why, then, should he not be entitled to war service home benefits if he goes to intolerable places such as Manus Island or if he serves in the bowels of a ship in the tropics for a long period of time? 
If honourable members look at the report of the Department of Defence, they will see that in the year 1971 there were no fewer than 123,000 serving members of the forces made up of 23,000 in the Navy, 76,000 in the Army and 24,000 in the Air Force who will benefit at the present lime.  Mr Chairman,  we have been very willing to spend large amounts of money on deploying these personnel in times of war and in times of peace. In fact, the defence estimates for 1971-72 run close to $ 1,000m. When we can spend that kind of money on defence it ought to be reasonable for this Committee to support the allocation of money which will enable members of the Services to derive some benefit from the career that they have undertaken and the great sacrifices which they have made overseas. Accordingly, 1 am prepared to move- 
Then I am prepared to commend strongly the amendment I have outlined to the Committee and if leave is given to the honourable member tor Reid to amend his amendment we will be able to test the feeling of the Committee and to seek from the honourable members for La Trobe and Moreton the support which they have indicated they are prepared to give to this proposal. If our amendment is carried a large number of servicemen - young servicemen - will be able lo derive great benefit in obtaining low priced dwellings under the war service homes scheme. 
-1 have been disappointed to hear the tenor of the debate this afternoon because- 
I beg your pardon. 
1 think that interjection deserves contempt, and that is the way I intend to regard it. 
I am not going to grovel around seeking protection from anybody in regard to a remark like that. I thought that you,  Mr Chairman,  might have offered it on your own account. Nevertheless, if you felt that it was not fitting to do so- 

 CHAIRMAN - Order! If the honourable member for Hughes wants to know why I did not ask the honourable member for La Trobe to withdraw his remark, it was because an interjection which is not commented on is not recorded in Hansard. Frankly, for the benefit of al] members of the Committee, I thought that it might be wiser for the interjection to be withdrawn and be commented upon in private afterwards. 
There has been an incredible pedanticism involved in the debate this afternoon, particularly in the contribution made by the honourable member for La Trobe (M.- Jess). I am sure that things that were said by both the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  had the effect of throwing out the baby with the bathwater. There can be no question about the fact that the other evening, when we were discussing this matter, they felt that the Opposition's amendment was unsatisfactory. They prevailed on the Opposition to amend it and, indeed, the Opposition proceeded co-operatively, towards that end and, in my view, accomplished a great deal of progress. The first amendment was to provide that former members of the forces who had been honourable discharged should be entitled to war service homes. The honourable members opposite indicated that that was not sufficient. 1 have allowed the honourable member for La Trobe some time to interject, but he has not done so. The present amendment provides that serving members of the permanent forces be accommodated. I think that if one traces through the Hansard account of the debate, one will find that there were some  minor  grounds for an element of pedanticism on the part of the honourable member for Moreton. However, there certainly are no grounds at all for the escape route that has been found for himself by the honourable member for La Trobe. It is his business. If he wants to commit himself to a matter of high principle on Thursday and abandon it on Tuesday, nobody can quibble with him. It is up to him: it is his prerogative. But the fact is that that is what he has done. One wonders why he has chosen to take this course. One wonders what sort of pressure may have been brought to bear upon him. 
I listened to the other intrusions into the debate, including what was said by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I will not accuse him of hyprocrisy about this matter because, frankly, I do not think he knows what the War Service Homes Bill is about, .any more than he knows what the Social Services Act is about. There are some obligations to fulfil. I know he has not been too intent on seeing that the Government fulfills the Prime Minister's obligation about overhauling the Social Services Act so I do not expect him to put too much credence on the undertaking given the other evening by the honourable member for La Trobe. Let me remind the Minister for Social Services that this is not just an issue that has blown in from the standpoint of the Opposition; it is not something that has just been dropped from a great height, which is what he intended to convey. He said something to the effect that we had seized on something for miserable political advanta.ee in order to capitalise on a vulnerable situation and the sensitivity which honourable members opposite displayed about this matter. What are the real facts of the situation? Let me remind the Minister of the Opposition's declared policy on war service homes, and it has been our declared policy for a long time. 1 quote from the policy statement of the Australian Labor Party, which stales that a Labor government will: 
Enable the Commonwealth Bank and the War Service Homes Division to lend up to 100 per cent of the value of properties against which their advances are made; establish a revolving fund within the War Service Homes Division to cater for all persons who come within the Commonwealth's constitutional responsibility: and extend the purposes for which additional and supplementary war service homes advances can be made. 
During the course of this debate we have contended that the war service homes scheme is so outstandingly successful from the standpoint even of making money for the Commonwealth that the scheme could be extended beyond ex-servicemen and that it could be used to provide benefits to the young married people of this country who need to find less expensive ways of financing the purchase of homes. If what I have read out to the Committee is our policy, surely it means that it is our primary intention to extend the scheme to additional categories of servicemen; surely it must mean that it is our primary intention to extend it to permanent members of ihe forces, in the terms about which the honourable member for Moreton has been talking. Surely it must be our primary intention to extend it to those people who are serving in the northern theatres, if they are not serving in declared war zones. If there is any priority at all it must be in respect of those people, for example, who are stationed at the Los Negros naval base or at Manus Island and who go out into the tropical areas in patrol boats. Is not that the kind of thing about which the honourable member for Moreton was actually talking? I was convinced and obsessed wilh the idea that it was. 
We are told now by the honourable member for La Trobe that he has chosen not to support us because there will be a delay and that we will be carving up the money which is already available for an increased number of applicants for war service loans. I have never seen the honourable' member being very concerned about the delay which ex-servicemen have had to suffer while awaiting war service loans. For years and years ex-servicemen have had to wait for long periods - as long as 15 or 18 months - before their war service loans were granted, and they were forced into the hands of moneylenders who charged high and extortionate rates of interest. Why is the honourable member so concerned now? The fact of the matter is that if there was an expression by this Parliament that the war service homes scheme should be extended to permanent members of the forces, the Government would see that its coffers were opened and that some of this year's $630m Budget surplus were made available to accommodate this need. 
We have heard a lot of humbug and hogwash this afternoon. It is quite unbearable to think - if it is the case, and I think that it is - that last Thursday honourable members could set out on a course of action which was designed to win them notoriety and publicity from one end of the land to the other, and that after they have seen themselves on television and seen photographs of themselves in the Press, and after they have stimulated the interest of ex-servicemen in this matter, they should suddenly come into this chamber, having scuttled their idealism and change their course on a matter which is of great significance to servicemen throughout Australia. When 1 went home last weekend I was contacted by representatives of sub-branches of the Returned Services League and by a number of individual servicemen who told me how delighted they were with the progress which had been made in regard to this matter and of the very high expectation throughout the country that the honourable members for Moreton and La Trobe would put the Government's money where their mouths have been in this matter. I believe that they should be prepared to face up to the commitment and show a bit of the fight of the kind which exservicemen, have shown in order to win the kind of consideration which they, as late as last Thursday night, admitted was due, to Australian ex-servicemen. I remind those honourable gentlemen that our amendment was redesigned because of the invitation extended to the Opposition to do so, especially by the honourable member for La Trobe, aided and abetted by the honourable member for Moreton. I have never seen so much humbug and hypocrisy in all my life as I have seen in relation to this matter. 
-I would like to say a few words in support of the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I think that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has deliberately set out to confuse- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
 That  the  question  be  now put. 
It seems to me that the Government is being very unreasonable in this matter and that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has not given a sensible reply to the points made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  it is amazing that in this matter, in contrast to the attitude that was taken during the debate on the previous amendment, the Minister is content to leave the discretion to the Director of the War Service Homes Division whereas previously he claimed that it was terribly important for the disretion to be vested in the Minister. There is an inconsistency in his attitude. It seems to me that the Minister is prepared to pluck in a willy-nilly way any sort of answer out of the air to provide something that looks like a justification for rejecting the very sensible case that has been put by the honourable member for Reid. 
The Minister says that the Director has a prerogative in this matter to look at the question of the prospect of carrying out the conditions of sale. One would think that he was running a second hand store instead of a compassionate scheme designed to provide houses for the serving members of the forces and, in some circumstances, their dependants. How incredible it is that the Minister is prepared to take the view in this matter that, provided people are in fairly wholesome circumstances and are able to meet payments, he is prepared to accommodate their housing needs under the war service homes scheme. But when it comes to the category of people to whom the honourable member for Reid has compassionately referred and tried to embrace in the terms of the amendment, the Minister jettisons the whole idea. One would have thought that a compassionate housing scheme would be one that would take into account the need of the people in the most difficult circumstances. The ones referred to in the amendment are such people as widows whose husbands are temporarily or permanently insane or incapacitated or, in the case of an unmarried person, if he or she is temporarily or permanently insane or incapacitated. 
The pi her provisions do not need any further recapitulating here because they have been spelt out in printed form in the terminology of the amendment. As I understand the Minister's case, it is to the effect that it would be wrong to vest his power in Ihe Director and that the Director has the prerogative of looking at repayment capacities and things of this kind. That is not the point of the matter. The point is whether he is prepared to extend the consideration to people in these circumstances. Doubtless there are some consequential amendments to be moved, lt is quite possible there may not have been a complete and perfect drafting process undertaken here, but what we are looking for on the part of the Government is the acceptance of some basic principles in connection with the war service homes scheme because the fact is that both ex-servicemen who aspire to eligibility under this scheme and their dependants who could have the responsibility for a home subsequent to a serviceman dying or becoming insane, are entitled to the consideration which is not being extended to them here. 
Right through this debate we have had the same stubborn attitude by the Minister. He is always prepared to pinpoint the little quibbles in terms of draftsmanship and matters of this kind and he continues to shift .his ground. In the one instance it is because he believes it is necessary for him to retain this doctrinaire prerogative in his own area as Minister, and then in the other instance he wants it in the hands of the Director. All these sorts of things can be sorted out in terms of working rules and so on. It is terribly important that people should know what their rights are. It is not discretion we are looking for, whether it is from the Minister or the Director of the War Service Homes Division. The desirable type of legislation is that which spells out in a very detailed and clarifying way - in a pedantic way, if you like - all the provisions which enable people to know precisely where they stand in any given situation. People do not want to be subjected to the bureaucracy or the goodwill of a Minister or anybody else, and here I believe there is an obligation on the part of the Government to look at the basic requirement of these people who can be in most distressing circumstances. I believe the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid, once again on behalf of the Opposition, is entitled to a lot more consideration than has been extendedto it by the Minister this evening. 
Question put - 
Thatthe new clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr Uren's amendment)  be so inserted. 
I present the following petition: . 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher  shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically, and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most . humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for Slate school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General. Arc parent organisations associated with the public education system denied inclusion in the category A classification for concessional postage? Why are these groups denied this concession which is extended to similar groups associated with many wealthy schools? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizen of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Government received a proposal from the Australian Society of Authors for the introduction of a public lending right system similar to that already operating in Denmark and Sweden and at present receiving consideration by the Governments of Finland, Norway, Holland and the United Kingdom. 
Can the Attorney-General say what are the main features of the Danish legislation. 
What are the main features of the proposal submitted by the Australian Society of Authors. 
Does the Government favour any other system of ensuring that Australian authors are compensated for their work, and is any legislation under consideration to achieve this end. 
In respect of each of the last 5 years, what funds have been allocated to the Commonwealth Literary Fund for disbursement to authors, and what are the names of the beneficiaries and the amounts paid in each case. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice:  (.1) Did he receive recently a telegram from the Federation of Netherlands Societies Limited indicating that the inadequacy of Australian social services is causing unrest among migrants and is one of the main reasons why so many migrants return to the country of their birth. 
If so. what are the precise terms of the telegram and the nature of the reply. 
ls there substance in the complaint; if so, what steps are being taken to remedy the position. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to ensure that emergency finance from the Com monwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Tonight the House has been treated to a disappointing and, I believe, disgusting diatribe from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is obviously not only disillusioned with the great responsibilities entrusted to him, but who is also out of step with the Government and has lost the confidence of the Government and the people of Australia. It has been incredible to hear from him, and the little  Sir Echo  who followed him, the pious platitudes in trying to defend this Government's disappointing record in the field of social services. He asked about the cause of the economic recession around the world. He seemed to be completely oblivious to the fact that his Government has been party to a matter of great significance, the war in Vietnam, which had a very great impact not only on the economy of Australia but also on the economy of the United States of America. It undermined the confidence of world currency. 
Then, dealing with matters closer to home, he seemed to lose sight of the fact that the people who are out of employment in Australia today have not been assisted in any measure by the fact that this Government has allowed the repatriation of profits lo increase from 25 per cent to 33 per cent over 6 years. That is to say, entrepreneurs and others come into our country, do not even bring capital with them - they use the capital of the Australian people - and take out profits to that astounding extent. 1 repeat that the percentage of our  profits  repatriated has risen from 25 per cent to 33 per cent over 6 years with all the trends indicating that before the end of the 1970s, 50 per cent of our profits will be going overseas. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  is one of the guilty mcn. He says that this Government is doing all it can about unemployment and about giving the people who are unemployed the opportunity *o live at a decent standard. We have heard all sorts of bleating alibis. We have heard all sorts of belligerent accusations. The honourable member for Bennelong did not want to say too much. Of course he did not because he had nothing to say. The honourable member continued to make a case that he intended to curtail his remarks so that we could get this legislation through. He knows full well that the Opposition has relinquished its traditional right of waiting for a week before the debate on the Bill is resumed so that it does not become a party to holding up the payment of unemployment benefits to these very needy beneficiaries. Normally the procedure with a Bill which is introduced on a Tuesday is that during the party meeting on the Wednesday it is debated and the debate in the Parliament is brought on a week later. The Opposition has co-operated in this regard. The honourable member for Bennelong failed to give this proper impression. 
Over a long period, large numbers of Australians have been thrown out of work on to the demoralising job queue. There are many who have not received a regular income for months. We have the spectacle of young matriculants of the high schools lining up at the unemployment office. In my own case I have a considerable number of these young men and women come to me looking for jobs. They have been turned out in their new shoes and suits like new pins, ready to take on whatever confronts them in their approach to adulthood. But it is sad and depressing to see them on the threshold of their employment opportunities deprived of a start in their first job and forced to line up for a handout in j 972. This Government has to bear the responsibility for that. 
Tonight we are discussing these pathetic pittances provided under the Social Services Bill 1972. I believe that this Bill will disturb every Australian who cares about the victims of the economic crisis. It is a sad thing that we are talking about giving people these miserably inadequate amounts of money. It is regrettable that someone such as the honourable member for Bennelong should stand and shed crocodile tears. This is the man who is perhaps one of the wealthiest men in the Parliament, if not in Australia, with his great chain of real estate agencies and enormous business ramifications. This wealthy man talks with such gratification about the proposal that we should give an adult male person, a dignified Australian, a paltry amount of $17 a week. Does this not ring of hypocrisy and humbug? Does it not cause every listener, every proud family man and worker in this country to wince at the fact that there are people who prevail at the level of Government in Australia today who dare to countenance the idea that this is uplifting or dignifying to Australian manhood? We on this side of the House are disgusted. We believe that those who are responsible for this measure on the other side of the House stand condemned. We feel very strongly about the whole matter. There have been high unemployment figures for many years. In 1961 there were 150,000 registered unemployed in this country. During that period, male unemployed were receiving $10 a week and $8 a week for a dependent wife. 
I am informed by the honourable member for Sydney that a single person who was unemployed received $8.25 in 1961. Yet, at this time the unemployment benefit for a male person stands at $10 a week. If he has a dependent wife, he receives $8 a week for her. These inadequate increases will be made as a result of the legislation we are discussing this evening. There has been continual pressure from members of the Opposition. Over many years we have moved amendments seeking higher amounts to be paid. There is no need for the Government to give the impression that it has suddenly discovered the need for higher benefits to be made available. It voted against the Opposition's proposals to increase benefits time after time. In addition, it has arrogantly, indifferently and inhumanly rejected the overtures of all the compassionate organisations. The Australian Council of Social Service has written to the Minister and talked to him in private interview time after time about this matter. Also, the Australian Council of Churches and hosts of other welfare organisations have drawn the attention of the Government to the inadequacies of these amounts. More contemporaneously, the Brotherhood of St Laurence produced a well informed and documented paper on this subject. But tonight we were treated to a slurry of scurrilous insults and red baiting from the Minister as a substitute for logic and genuine concern about the unemployed. He even had to reach to the bottom of the barrel in an attack on a former member of this House, the former member for Parkes,  Mr Haylen,  who has not been in the Parliament since 1963. He had to go back 9 years. It is amazing that the Government has to lean on such a flimsy reed as a remark, made in 1947 and taken out of context, in order to justify whatever case the Minister for Social Services has. No wonder the Minister has his hand on his head and is hanging his head in shame. He is looking miserable and ashamed of himself and his Government. Here is a man who made all the promises about what he was going to do to lift the standard of social service* and to eliminate the means test. He criticised the Government. Goodness me, here he is tonight, near the end of his career, tattered and torn, bruised and battered and with hardly a feather to fly. One wonders whether there is anyone in sight in the ranks of the Government who is going to look like emerging as a possible successor to the once strong advocate for decent social services. 
The Minister for Social Services, like all the others, has been more interested in introducing an investment allowance of 20 per cent as a means of stimulating the economy. The Minister advocates great hand-outs to big business as an alternative to stimulating the economy by giving deprived and underprivileged people a bit more purchasing power. Would it not have been a good idea to give the unemployed a decent living wage - this is done in other parts of the world - or to give pensioners maybe an increase of $10 a week which would make their pension a substantial proportion of the average male earnings? Why has not the Minister advocated this? That is his responsibility. Action should have been taken in this direction and the Government should not so warmly and enthusiastically have embraced the idea of a 20 per cent investment allowance to BHP and to other great business concerns, including those which have come from overseas to take away our birthright and our profits. It is obvious that there has been a great failure so far as the Minister's responsibilities are concerned. 
When we have a look at the measure that is before the House tonight, we see that the effect of it is to lift the adult rate of unemployment benefit to $17 a week, the rate for unmarried persons between 18 and 20 years to $11 a week and the rate of those people between 16 and 17 years to $7.50 a week. There are many things which obviously needed overhauling but which have not been provided for at all in the Bill before us. For example, there is no increase in the wife's allowance. If a husband and wife, who normally are in employment, are both out of work - and this is not an unprecedented example that I am giving - the wife will not receive the unemployment benefit. She will end up with a wife's allowance of $8 a week. Of course, there are many other deficiencies. Even the integration of the proposed increase in unemployment payments into the existing social services structure adds to the hotch potch of varying rates paid to people with the same basic needs and commitments and in the same governmental area of dependency. 
This Government has not faced up to the fact that unemployment is the business of the Government and that governments have a responsibility to keep people in employment. The only real cure for unemployment is employment, and that is a matter to which the Government has to turn its attention. A premium should be placed on unemployment in the form of unemployment benefits of such proportion that governments could not allow unemployment to occur. We should be challenging the right of large scale employers to engage in large scale retrenchments. What right has an overseas concern to sack thousands of Australian workers? What right has an overseas concern to come here and use Australian resources, Australian money and Australian manpower and when there is some shift in the economic breeze decide that it might suit their short term purposes to have large scale unemployment? That is not the philosophy of employers in every part of the world. This is not permitted by governments in other parts of the world. If a man takes a job with a firm iri Japan, for example, he knows he has a job for life. Similarly his employer knows that he is a faithful and conscientious employee. But in Australia employers can do what they like and this Government could not care less. 
It would be reasonable for the Government to bring down a measure categorising large scale employers and requiring them, in respect of their intention to engage in large scale retrenchments, to show cause why they wanted to sack hundreds or thousands of Australians, and then to lay down a programme to prevent this from happening. There are many occasions on which people lose employment because of the mismanagement of big industry. Sometimes they lose their jobs because of the greed of big industry which outprices the commodity in the international market. I am not sure that this has not been happening in the steel industry, for example. When one reads year after year of the enormous bonanzas, the hand-outs and the bonus shares which are given to BHP shareholders, is it any wonder that in the last financial year there was an imbalance  of  $40m in trade with steel? 
Australia took steel technology to Japan not so many years ago. It taught the Japanese how to make steel. Australia still supplies Japan with our iron ore and with our hard coking coal. Yet Australia is in the incredible position where it is buying extensively from Japan. I think there is some justification to say that a study of the situation will show that BHP might have outpriced Australia from the international market. Why is it that BHP is allowed to sack people whenever it wants to in a case like that? The Government should say: 'You are required to show cause why you want to retrench people because if you do retrench them it is our obligation to keep them at a decent living level. They are Australians and it is going to cost us a lot if they are out of work because we will ensure that the unemployment benefit will be at a high level*. The Government should then say that the obligation is on BHP, as an employer, to show cause why people should be put out of work. Otherwise, if the company cannot do this, the Government should say: 'We will impose some sanctions against you; maybe we will deprive you of the 20 per cent investment allowance*. The Government is going on with child's play. It is not caring about unemployment, it is not accepting unemployment or employment as its responsibility and it is not facing up to its obligation to provide a decent living wage for the people so affected which at the moment is a disgrace by Australian standards. 
As a result of the numbers registered for work at the end of 1971 the unemployment level rose to 120,553 people. In a month that figure went up by 2.000. Of course, these arc only superficial figures. There are thousands of unemployed people who do not register but hope to find a job on their own initiative. When one talks about 122,000 unemployed in Australia one is not talking about the people who are affected by unemployment because in addition to those who are unemployed there are wives and dependent children. I believe that the annual report indicates that dependent children average three to a family. Therefore, a large number of people are affected by unemployment in this country at present. 
It is a sad commentary that half of the registered unemployed - close to 70,000 people - are school leavers and other juniors, which is the way in which they are described in official documents. At the end of June last year there were 683,586 persons in Australia aged between 18 and 20 years. Australia has 6.7 million voters, so the 18 to 20 year age group represents a little more than 10 per cent of the existing enrolment. An extension of the electoral franchise to include this group would cause the Government to he more sensitised to its needs. It is amazing that this Government is prepared to give young men and women between 18 and 20 years of age only $11 a week after depriving them of employment. This group I believe is among the hardest hit in Australia today. These young people are subjected to many injustices and hardships and the reduction of the voting age probably would cause the Government to be more sensitive to many of the problems which these people are experiencing. Although there are many things that I should like to say on this occasion, I conclude by drawing attention to the fact that no longer at Commonwealth employment offices are people told when they seek a joh that employments benefits are available to them. 
 The House is debating amplification of the recent announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on Aboriginal land rights. Of course, the matter has been amplified by the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  who rs responsible for all things miscellaneous. That is the first matter which the Opposition wishes to take up. We regard the Aboriginal problems of this country as significant enough to warrant a separate portfolio for Aboriginal affairs rather than having it mixed in with a number of other miscellaneous matters directed by a Minister who does not seem to be doing anything terribly well, anyway. Tonight, running through the speech of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts was talk of consultation with the Aborigines. This is to be the shape of things to come, but the fact of the matter is that in spite of the consultation that has taken place nothing effective seems to have been done about the expectations and requirements expressed by the Aboriginal people. 
The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has spoken of the achievements on behalf of the Aboriginal people, but he glossed over the matter. He did not give a true or factual account of the situation that prevails around Australia at present. He spoke as though it is virtuous to talk of the Aboriginal people or their tribal situation and local communities and of placing them into Kormilda College at Darwin and Yirara Community College which is being built at Alice Springs. He spoke as though it is desirable in any community to take the young men and women away a" a tender age because the Government of the country is not prepared to do for Aboriginal people what it does for white people in every State. That is to provide regional schools so that the young people do not have to leave home. 
This is not a desirable policy unless you want to destroy the Aboriginal culture and deprive the young Aboriginal people of association with their parents. By the standards of the Australian Labor Party those actions cannot be upheld. We have heard no proper account tonight of the disgraceful health situation of Aboriginals. Some of us here as members of the Public Works Committee unearthed the disgraceful facts that apply in part of Central Australia. We discovered that in Alice Springs hospital there were 4 people to an oxygen tent and 2 Aboriginal children to a bed. We discovered that one child was admitted with chickenpox and because of overcrowding 116 children were cross infected with chickenpox. Recent figures have shown that out of every 50 Aboriginal children born in Alice Springs, 11 will die in early childhood. The infant mortality rate in a number of parts of Australia is 20 times higher than that applicable to the European population. 
The Minister ought to be speaking frankly to the Parliament about those matters. He did not refer to the discriminatory state of affairs that operates around Australia in respect of Aborigines. Many communities are without telephones and some lack full time medical services. Most Aboriginal communities are without comparable expenditure on schools, sewerage, garbage services, electricity, gas and water supplies, and any sort of landscaping or beautification which is regarded as necessary in other communities. There are no roads, kerbing or guttering, and no housing of the standard established in other areas. 
That is the state of the Aboriginal community in Australia. It is a disgrace that after 22 years in office this Government must accept responsibility for that unhappy state of affairs. We heard tonight the popular contention that the policies of the Labor Party will cause Aboriginal people to lodge a claim for Martin Place, Parliament House, or your house or my house. As the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  pointed out, the Labor Party stands for something sensible and attainable. We stand for corporate rights and ownership in respect of those lands which are already designated as lands set aside for Aboriginal purposes. We can have corporate ownership in the Northern Territory; we have it now. There are large areas of land - hundreds of thousands of square miles of it - which are corporately owned by people who come from other parts of the world. The overseas entrepreneurs are able to get their hands on as much land as they like but the Government thinks it is impossible to give corporate land ownership to the Aboriginal people. The Opposition thinks differently. It does not intend to make it appear at all to the Aboriginal people that they have arty claims on Martin Place because it is talking of attainable and practical things. We are on their side. We want to help them; we do not want to lead them down the garden path. It is quite a sensible thing to say: 'You can have corporate rights if you have the capacity to run your Aboriginal reserve, to own it and to utilise it'. In addition we believe that there are other Aboriginal people who are no longer in a tribal state and who should be given assistance to acquire land. That is the straightforward and forthright policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
The coloured people, as someone described them a moment ago, the Aboriginal people of Australia, are confused. They are confused already. Before the land rights zealots go out they are not only confused; they are bewildered and depressed. This is, of course, an issue in an election year and so it should be. On the one hand there is the indifference of this Government and on the other hand there is the Australian Labor Party which will give effect and expression to the will of the Australian people who spoke forthrightly when given the chance to do so in the recent referendum. We make no apology for -the fact that we intend to put our alternative programme to the people of this country because it is not only idealistic but it is also in keeping with the programme which operates in other countries where there are indigenous people, if ever there was an occasion of anti-Australian statements it was the no land rights for Aborigines speech delivered on Australia Day by the Prime Minister. The speech sent shock waves even through the Commonwealth Council for Aboriginal Affairs and brought the  Chairman, Dr Coombs,  who takes a very capable and inspired interest in these matters, within an ace of resignation. No doubt his protests caused some amendments to be made to the policy the Government intended to espouse. Throughout the country the demure and tranquil Aboriginal people were stirred from their slumbering and were galvanised into an action programme to win the right to own land. Of course, this is a manifestation of it that we see in front of Parliament House - the Aboriginal Embassy. 
I am in contact with Aboriginal people, as are several of my colleagues here, and know that every Aboriginal organisation throughout Australia now feels that it is time to come together to achieve the objective of land rights. These are the same land rights which are given almost universally by other countries with responsibilities to indigenous people. The same rights have already been conceded under the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966. This was simply a matter of giving effect to the South Australian Colonialisation Commission of 1836, because it was as far back as that that we started laying down principles and standards for Aboriginal ownership of land. It is the right inherent in convention 107 of the International Labour Organisation which unequivocally declares that the right of ownership, collective or individual, of the members of the populations concerned over the lands which these populations traditionally occupy shall be recognised. Far from meeting this international criterion of behaviour, this Government has deliberately flouted it. It has lost sight of the fact that 3 of our States have ratified the International Labour Organisation convention, including Victoria. When all is said and done the Victorian Aboriginal Lands Act 1970 gives effect to the same principles which the Labor Party stands for today. And remember that it was done by the Bolte Government. So it does not appear to be so undesirable after all. 
It is amazing that the Government actually took the trouble to oppose the claims of the Yirrkala people in the Northern Territory Supreme Court for title to land at Gove. The Government does not have to be subject to the law forever. We know of the Blackburn decision which said that under the existing law the Aboriginal people have no right to land ownership. It says in effect that the land owns them. But we should remember that this is the place where laws are made and if the law has been found to be inadequate to accommodate the idealism of the Government then all we need to do is to make new laws so that  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Blackburn or any other distinguished gentlemen from the judiciary will uphold the law which this Government enacts to give effect to its desires. Back in 1594 the Laws of the Indies were proclaimed giving rights to traditionally occupied lands. In Canada in 1763 there was the Proclamation of the Crown on Indian land rights. In 1969 the Indian l ands Act was introduced and the Crown ceased to be the trustee for land set aside for Indians. 
This matter was raised this afternoon and we were asked what we would do about land set aside for Aborigines. It is the fact that in a number of countries supplemental legislation has been brought down quite contemporaneously to ensure that there are no conditions or caveats over the land owned by the indigenous people. In New Zealand in 1840 the Treaty of Waitangi established the rights of Maoris to the full, exclusive and undisturbed possession of their land and estates, forests, fisheries and other properties. In the United States of America in 1778, even before the United States had a Constitution, the North West Ordinance was passed decreeing that land and property shall never be taken from the Indians. Again in the United States of America in 1946 the Indian Claims Commission was set up to give the Indian people greater versatility in the use of their land and the right to dispose of it and matters of that kind. For many years this Government has upheld the right of the indigenous people of Papua New Guinea to own their own land. In Papua, probably 92 years ago, the principle of native land ownership was laid down by Australia, and in New Guinea after the cessation of hostilities at the end of the First World War the same principle was applied. Then in 1952 there was the Natives Land Commission in the Territory and it had very useful effects. The same attitude was taken in regard to the indigenous people of Nauru. So there are many precedents. In fact, there is hardly a country with responsibilities to indigenous people which has not fulfilled them in an honest and effective way. This country as a result of this Government's attitude is the one country that is out of the ordinary in this regard. 
Honourable members opposite have been talking about consultation for so long and they are talking about it now. They are talking about it concurrently with the fact that the Aboriginal people have the opposite point of view to that being espoused by this Government. The Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders has decided by resolution to launch a national campaign urging the granting of Aboriginal land rights and, in particular, the granting of full title and rights to compensation with respect to all existing Aboriginal reserve land throughout Australia, and the provision of land for all Aboriginal individuals and groups seeking to live on, use and develop land in their traditionally occupied areas. This is not just the point of view of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders but also it is the point of view of the Australian Council of Churches. I have had the opportunity to go and talk to the people at Roper River, Gove and Groote Eylandt and with the Yirrkala people and tribesmen, to smoke their peace pipes and to hear at first hand what they want. What they have said has been passed on by the Australian Council of Churches to the Labor Party and the Labor Party, has accommodated the views of. both the Aborigines and the Australian Council of Churches. So the Labor Party does not have to apologise for the programme that it has espoused and which it is determined to give effect to after the next election. I take the view that the Government is not facing up to an important obligation, fulfilment of which would cause Aboriginal people to raise their heads and stand as an independent and dignified race. They will never be able to do this until land rights are conceded to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say which countries afford diplomatic recognition to the German Democratic Republic. 
What is the attitude of the Government to (a) the recognition of the German Democratic Republic and (b) the admission to the United Nations of (i) the German Democratic Republic and (ii) the Federal Republic of Germany. 
Has Australia expressed any official view either for or against the proposal for the reunification of Germany; if so on what occasions and to what effect. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did he announce on 23rd March 1971 that the Government will introduce an employment scheme for persons displaced by technological change. 
If so, what is the present position in the matter. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What criteria are used to qualify an organisation for inclusion in the category to which bulk postage concessions are extendable? 
What is the nature of the concessions extended to Category A organisations? 
Has the New South Wales Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations applied for the concession; if so. with what result? 
Are parent organisations associated with (a) public schools and (b) church schools generally regarded as eligible for the concession? 
What are the names of the organisations which were unsuccessful in applying for the con cession during 1971, and for what reasons were the applications rejected? 
What are the names of the organisations which were successful in applying for the concession during 1971? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are any Aboriginal reserves or traditional tribal grounds at Bathurst Island currently the subject of inquiries or feasibility studies by Japanese business interests interested in mining activities or the development of a woodchip industry? 
If so, what is the nature of the inquiries or studies, and what is the considered view of the Aboriginal people towards them? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What sites have been considered as a future location for Sydney's second airport. 
What were the reasons for the elimination from the list of possible sites, of those sites which were considered but are no longer under consideration. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights'. Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all States, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Comonweallh revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. ' 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
on asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
In what years have Commonwealth Directories been published. 
Is it a fact that the 1970 Directory is hopelessly outdated as a result of the unprecedented rate of changes in ministerial responsiabilities and ministerial and senior public service appointments. 
If so, can a duplicated revised list be prepared for use until the next election when many further changes will undoubtedly take effect. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Does he agree that injection of an arbitration process into the dispute between the Government and sections of the medical profession can prove meaningful only if both sides unequivocally agree to accept the arbitrator's decision and in fact do accept it? Will the Government accept the arbitration decision? Have assurances yet been sought from the medical profession or the various sections of it to this effect? 
I also would like to say how pleased I am that this recommendation has come before the Parliament. It is pleasing to see that the parliamentarians from the various parties can make common cause in regard to a matter of such importance to the people of Katherine. As my colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  said, this is a project to provide a water-borne sewerage system in Katherine at a cost of $1.3m for a population of 6,000 people by 1980. I think the population figure underlines the importance of the work in that there were 2,500 people in Katherine in 1970. There has been a very high rate of growth in the town. 
What is underlined, of course, is the recognition of the special problems of that region. At the present time there is this unsatisfactory method of providing septic tanks which have a capacity of about 400 gallons, with a 40-foot trench. But the clay subsoil is such that there is a limited absorption capacity, and as a result of this very considerable expense is involved in carting the effluent away to the treatment dump area. In fact we were told that in the 2 months from March to April last year there were 883 pump-outs for that limited population at a cost of from $3.50 to $5 per service weekly. This is a very great financial burden on families. Notwithstanding all that, the present set-up still does not render an efficient service. 
Some evidence was given about the incidence of hepatitis in Katherine. It is interesting to note that hepatitis is capable of affecting European children by way of the germ penetrating the sole of the foot, but Aboriginal children, their feet being tougher, are affected by the germ going up through the toes. But the incidence is incredibly high. In 1970-71 Katherine had 45 notifiable cases of hepatitis, whereas in the same period in Darwin there were 108 cases. This disparity seems considerable, but when it is realised that the population of Darwin is 15 times higher than the population of Katherine and that the incidence of hepatitis is not much more than double, it can be seen that there is a very special problem in that area. The service becomes all the more significant when we take into account the special needs of the abattoir, the school, the hospital, the motels and the theatre. Just to demonstrate the very urgent need for sewerage in Katherine, the theatre has to provide sullage trenches in front of the screen. Honourable members can imagine what kind of effect that could have on the patrons of a theatre on a hot night in the Northern Territory. 
The honourable member for Hunter has mentioned the concern which witnesses before the Committee expressed about the possibility of sewerage contaminating the Katherine River. Of course the Public Works Committee, and this Parliament too, to a very considerable degree now operates on this new dimension which never used to be much of a factor - the environment factor. Whenever we go away on a Public Works Committee inquiry now we meet people who take these things into account in a very serious way. In Katherine one sees a great stretch of river, one realises that it floods from time to time, and one might think that it is of little significance; but people contend that it is a matter of very great importance to them, as custodians - that is the role they cast themselves in - to protect the heritage of Australia in this regard. 
As has been mentioned, a series of lagoons has been designed to ensure that there will not be severe  contaminatory  effects. One thing about Katherine is that it is in an area administered by the Commonwealth Government. There are comparable areas in many other parts of Australia which have similar needs. My col leagues from the north of Queensland, say, and indeed from the north of New South Wales, particularly the hot parts, would probably envy the consideration that is being extended to the people of Katherine, a consideration which we do not begrudge at all. But I mention as a mere aside that we can probably draw from this some encouragement for the view that the Commonwealth ought to have regard to this matter on an Australia-wide basis and,  ds  a matter of priority, should underwrite the needs of the States in the provision of sewerage services. I commend the report to honourable members and hope that the work, which I understand is to be completed in the not too distant future, will proceed satisfactorily. 
I support the motion to proceed with this work which involves a central hospital services complex to be provided on a 20-acre site in the suburb of Crace which is some 4 miles north of the Civic Centre of Canberra, at a cost of $4. 865m. I understand that the first stage of the proposal is to be completed by the first half of 1975. This matter is worth ventilating from the standpoint of the people of the Austraiian 
Capital Territory. I would not regard it as an adequate service to those people to have the formal moving of this motion without some minimal ventilation being given it because the proposal is unique if not unprecedented. It relates to developmental proposals for the hospital spectrum of the Australian Capital Territory. I understand that the Canberra Hospital has about 600 permanent beds and about 150 temporary beds. The Woden hospital, which is being built in 2 stages, will provide 380 beds in the early part of 1973 and an additional 220 beds in late 1974. There is a longer term proposal for 2 other hospitals. The first, at Belconnen, will be provided by about 1986, which is a fair way off, and will have 800 beds. Another hospital to be built at Tuggeranong will provide 300 beds by 1984 and an additional 600 beds by 1989. By 1980 a total of 1.800 hospital beds will be available in the Australian Capital Territory. This indicates the demand for services that will be generated. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has referred to the first stage of the work as comprising the provision of a central linen service for 1,500 beds, a central sterilising service for 1,500 beds and engineering facilities, staff amenities and facilities to cater for 3,000 beds. There has not been much controversy., if any, concerning the central linen service. However, all of us should have regard for the fact that the proposal represents a unique breakthrough in the manner in which it is designed for the Australian Capital Territory. However, there has been controversy about the proposal for a central sterilising service, h being contended by some witnesses - indeed, by official representatives of sections of the medical profession - that this system will not work satisfactorily. I believe we should have some regard for the points made by those representatives. The Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Australian Medical Association took the view that instrument sterilisation facilities should be provided at the Canberra Hospital. It was diametrically opposed to the suggestion of a central sterilising service and commenced its evidence by saying that at no stage had there been any discussion with or advice sought from representatives of the medical profession. As the Public Works Committee pro- ceeded with its hearing this contention was qualified but I, for one, took the view that there had not been sufficient discussion or interchange of views with the medical profession on this matter. It seemed apparent that processes could have been pursued whereby the anxieties of representatives of this organisation might have been placated or otherwise allayed. The Australian Medical Association takes the view that this proposal will be a costly process, and that when we start taking instruments away from a hospital to a central sterilisation plant we will have to purchase additional instruments. The Association mentioned that some of the instruments are extremely expensive, particularly neurosurgical, ophthalmic, orthopaedic and renal surgical instruments. The Association contended that other instruments should not be moved at all because of their delicate nature, and mentioned ophthalmic and optical instruments especially. 
believe that it is a good thing to proceed with this centralised process. So far we have referred only to the first phase of it. There are a number of other aspects to be incorporated in the second stage but in proceeding with it I believe there is a need for the administration in the Australian Capital Territory to have some sympathy for and understanding of the submissions made by the medical profession. Obviously it is of the utmost importance to ensure that the instruments come in their proper sterilised form and properly packaged and are available for every eventuality. One can imagine how necessary it would be to make special provisions for the casualty ward, and these other matters which have been mentioned in relation to the specialist surgery areas ought to be taken into account. I believe it could be done in the early stages by maintaining instruments at the Canberra Hospital and then as the other hospitals are built at a later date by providing facilities to establish a nucleus of essential instrumentation so that at no time will a hospital ever find itself in a position of not having adequate facilities available. 
The concept appeals to me very considerably, and it is interesting to note that Australia may be involving itself with a first in this proposal. At a hearing of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works on 2nd November 1971 I asked  Mr Parker,  a representative of the Department of Works, the following question: 
The ultimate complex is probably unprecedented as far as Australia is concerned. Whether it is or not, could you say if you used any other example to guide you in your planning work? 

 Mr Parker replied: 
No,  Mr Johnson,  not an example in which I could say you could go and see it. The development of this type of industrial services complex is being talked about throughout the world. In England (hey have advanced about as far as we have in the presentation today, inasmuch that there are a number of complexes in which the laundry and CSD  are functioning. The food service, which is mentioned in Health's document, is experimental in England. In Sweden they are serving hospitals from central food areas and in Australia there are experiments going on and the Hospitals Commission in South Australia has a functioning food centre. 
Of course, we have hospitals being serviced from centralised food areas in Australia but the other matters are, I believe, relatively unprecedented. The second phase is quite exciting in that it includes the extension of the central linen service and the extension of the central sterilisation service, both to cater for 3,000 hospital beds. It also includes central stores, central purchasing, archival storage  of hospital and medical records, central food, services, including preparation and distribution, computer facilities, a central workshop for hospital maintenance services, additional transport facilities and a child minding centre. Obviously this is a very great project to be undertaken in Australia and here again we cannot but help make the point that Canberra is a privileged city when one sees the inadequacy of hospital complexes in other areas. I know that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is concerned about the western suburbs of Sydney. We would like to feel that this project in Canberra is an indication that the Commonwealth is interested to a greater extent in the hospital needs of the people generally and that these modern innovations and this enthusiasm for efficient approaches to problems might come to characterise the whole of Australia rather than just the areas for which the Commonwealth is responsible. I commend the report. I believe it is a very great project for Canberra. It is quite anticipatory. The facilities that are being supplied will not be fully required at the time when the first stage of the complex is con structed. I have no doubt that there will be a considerable problem in the recruitment of staff to man the project around the clock. But that, of course, is a longer term matter which the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works has recommended to the authorities is deserving of very special consideration. I commend the report to the House. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What provision has been made to provide air-conditioning al the International Terminal at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
What is the estimated cost of completing the installation. 
When is it expected that the access route from Tempe lo the International Terminal will be completed. 
Has any consideration been given to the proposal that a new access route should be developed around the southern end of the airport from General Holmes Drive; if so what are the details. 
Has consideration been given to the need to undertake a beautification programme in the vicinity of the airport complex incorporating landscaping and tree planting; if so what are the details. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights'. Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other applicances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned professional fishermen deriving livelihood from the sea in the vicinity of Coalcliff, New South Wales, humbly showeth: 
That a continuing contamination of the sea coast and off-shore area by coalwash discharging into the sea at Coalcliff, New South Wales, is damaging and destroying marine life and adversely affecting the quality of the sea and the environment. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government take appropriate action by inquiry and investigation to identify the cause or causes of such contamination and impose deterrents and penalties to prevent further contamination. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What requirements are placed on (a) Australian and (b) overseas owned shipping companies to undertake repairs, docking and maintenance in Australian shipyards. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has any consideration been given to providing widow's pensions to single mothers who retain the care and control of their young child or children. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What assistance is given in each State and Territory to those deserted wives and single mothers who are not eligible for normal Commonwealth payments and for whom payment is made under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act. 
Has any action been taken by the Comonwealth to encourage uniformity in benefits paid and assistance given to deserted wives and single mothers by the States and the Commonwealth; if  so,  what are the details. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
Is this Department still experiencing difficulties in recruiting social workers as mentioned in its 1970-71 annual report. 
If so, what steps have been or are to be taken to overcome this problem. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Are meals-on-wheels services conducted by public hospitals excluded from assistance under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act. 
How many public hospitals conduct mealsonwheels services and what proportion of the total service is estimated as being provided by public hospitals. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
How many persons have received long-term sickness benefit since the enabling legislation was passed. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon  notice: 
Which departments of colleges of advanced education were unable to meet enrolment demands at the commencement of the 1972 academic year and what are the details in each case. 
asked the Minister for 
Housing, upon notice: 
How many approvals have been given to applicants for War Service Homes to secure second and subsequent mortgages during each of the last 10 years. 
What was (a) the average amount of mortgage and (b) the average rate of interest paid in respect of these mortgages in each of these years. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government taken any diplomatic initiative to convey to the Smith Rhodesian Government its displeasure at the imprisonment of  Mr G.  Todd and his daughter Miss Judy Todd. If so, on what date and in what terms was this initiative taken. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has the Government taken any decision on the question of reducing the voting age from 21 to 18 years. 
What were the terms of the interdepartmental report submitted to the Government on the implications of lowering the voting age to 18 years. 
Can he say which countries allow people under 21 years of age to vote. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
'How many immigrants, who came to Australia with assisted passages, returned to their homeland during the last 5 years. 
What studies have been undertaken and what information is available regarding the causes of migrant departures from Australia. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What is the (a) number and (b) percentage of persons of pensionable age who live in accommodation provided under the provisions of the Aged Persons Homes Act in each State and Territory. 
What is the average capital cost of providing living units for (a) single persons and (b) married couples in each year since the inception of the Act. 
asked the Minister  for  Social Services,  upon  notice: 
How many disabled Commonwealth employees have received rehabilitation treatment or vocational training under the Compensation, (Commonwealth Employees) Act since the enabling legislation was passed. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many persons, who sought exemption from sales tax on the purchase of motor vehicles and replacement parts under the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act, were not certified as medically eligible for classification as  a  disabled person in each of the last 5 years. 
What are the criteria for classification as a disabled person under the provisions of the Act. 
Is there any evidence available to him to show that the restrictive provisions of the Act pre clude many persons whose physical and medical condition necessitates the use of private rather than public transport for the purpose of travelling to and from employment from establishing eligibility under the Act. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Has the Government so far failed to take any initiatives under the Joint Coal Board Act to prevent the closure of Clifton and Bulli No. 2 underground coal mines in New South Wales, which threatens retrenchment of hundreds of coal miners and serious damage to the economy of the region? Will the closure of these mines be followed by flooding, resulting in the irretrievable loss of the resource and development? In view of this crisis and the prospect of other closures, will the Minister formulate national guidelines for the production and marketing of coal so as to minimise the adverse effects of cut-throat competition between the overseas owners of New South Wales underground mines and the open cut mines of Queensland? 
asked the Minister for Social Services upon notice: 
How many applicants have been rejected in each year since the inception of the training scheme for widow pensioners. 
What were the principal reasons for rejecting these applicants. 
On whose decision are applicants rejected, 
Are rejected applicants able to appeal to any higher authority for the purpose of having the decision reviewed. 
Are applicants advised why they have been rejected. 
What is the range of occupations for which training is available. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What progress has been made towards providing mobile rehabilitation clinics for regular visits to smaller country centres as mentioned in the 1970-71 report of this Department. 
Have any additional decentralised rehabilitation clinics been established following the commencement of the pilot projects at Townsville and Newcastle. 
How many persons are receiving rehabilitation treatment at (a) Townsville and (b) Newcastle and what is the range of treatment in each case. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females were registered for unemployment benefit at the Caringbah and Wollongong regional offices of the Department of Labour and National Service in each quarter in 1960, 1961, 1970 and 1971 and in the first quarter of 1972. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What has been the (a) number of loans approved and (b) total repayment made since the inception of the War Service Homes Scheme. 
What has been the total cost of administering the scheme since its inception. 
What would be the total amount repayable, under each rate of interest applied, by persons who borrowed the various maximum amounts permitted since the inception of the scheme. 
 We have been listening to the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  for some considerable time and I am not at all aware of the point that he tried to make in connection with this debate. He took some time to read from a speech which, I think, he made in 1947 and he was obviously very proud of it. The speech was made some 25 years ago. lt is probably the contribution that he made to the Parliament that caused him to be recognised in the honours list. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Mallee regards that speech as his best contribution to Parliament, but personally I did not feel that it was of such quality as to justify his inclusion in the honours list. Nor did I feel that it was of such quality as to justify its tedious repetition, since this is the second time we have been subjected to it in that period of years. 
I am not precisely sure of the point that the honourable member was making. He spent some time talking about sitting days and complaining that there would be too many sitting days before the Minister reported back to the House to indicate what course of action would be taken. Yet, in another context and just preceding his statement of his attitude along those lines, the honourable member for Mallee seemed to be indicating - in fact, he was quite unequivocally saying - that petitions were completely and utterly a waste of time. So, just what does he want? Does he want the petitions to come in quickly with a reply from a Minister or does he want to abolish the petition protests for all time? I can imagine the honourable member's susceptibility on petitions because day after day he and some of his colleagues and the Ministers are subjected to a lot of embarrassment as the national constituency continues to barrage them with its demands for electoral reform and reform in' respect of many matters affecting the welfare of the people. 
We are discussing today a very serious matter and it ought not to be treated in the light-hearted and facetious manner that has characterised the attitude of several speakers on the other side of the House. It is refreshing to hear speeches by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  for example, and to see the manner in which he has applied himself to a study of this matter and the history of it in the national Parliament of Australia. The attitude of the honourable member for Stirling ought to be contrasted with the facetious and light-hearted style of some honourable members opposte. What did we hear from the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  just a short time ago when he presented a petition to this Parliament? I think he referred to the petitioners as 'misguided petitioners'. Never before has there been such a reflection on the constituency of this country as there was on that occasion on the people of Tasmania. Tasmania ought to have high regard for the principles of democracy, considering the manner in which democracy is extended to it as a State. 
I think all honourable members on both sides of this House shudder at the contemptuous attitude displayed towards those people who walk the streets knocking on doors to try to get consideration for the age pensioners, the handicapped children or people affected by the closure of post offices, a matter which some honourable members seem to treat in a light-hearted fashion. The presentation of petitions is an ancient process. It goes back hundreds of years. It was formulated out of the great struggles in the British Isles. I am delighted- 
Here we have an honourable member who wants to bring miserable partisan politics into a matter which affects the very conduct of this Parliament and the right of the constituency to bring matters through the maze of bureaucracy and through the bulwarks of opposition thrown up by the Government. It is for this kind of reason that the process of petitioning has found its way into our parliamentary system, yet the honourable member wants to denigrate the whole debate by talking about some party political issue. 
This debate, when all is said and done, relates to a proposal from the Standing Orders Committee that a copy of every petition be lodged with the  Clerk,  received by the House and referred by the  Clerk  to the Minister responsible for administration of the matter which is the subject of the petition. For some unknown reason honourable members opposite are opposed to the idea which has been put forward by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  to the effect that the Minister shall within 21 sitting days of the presentation of a petition, or the first of a series of petitions, notify the House of the action that has been taken with respect to the petition. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  has quibbled in a pedantic way. Is he opposed to 21 days? Is that period too short? Does he want 31 days? He did not make clear what he wanted. Does he have a deep-seated conviction that the Minister should not take the trouble to look at a petition signed by thousands and sometimes hundreds of thousands of constituents? 
Why is the honourable member so concerned to prevent the Minister doing something about a petition? After all, petitions are the protests of the people and we are in the business of accountability. That is what we are here for, not to ignore the attitudes of the people. We are here to listen to the voice of the people and I think it is proper to send a petition on to the responsible Minister. I can understand the honourable member for Ryan saying that 21 days might not be long enough to get a decent and properly considered reply so perhaps it should be 31 days, but he just airily dismissed it out of hand, compounding the contemptuous attitude expressed by other honourable members who do not want petitions to be presented in this place at all. What a lovely Parliament it would be, such a convenient, comfortable, happy and cosy place for us to all operate in if we were not worried by the complaints of the people. I do not take that point of view at all. 
Let us contrast the attitude in this House with what is happening in another place. I admit that I have been responsible for the organisation of petitions and the presentation of them in this Parliament. I have from time to time encouraged my colleagues to present petitions, mainly because there has not been any proper response from the Government or from the responsible Ministers who ought to have some sensitivity about the issues concerned. After alt, the gate that squeaks the most gets the most oil. We on this side are not going to give up because we have asked once and been ignored. We are going to present petitions time after time. I remember organising some dozens of my colleagues and requesting some honourable members from the other side of the House to present petitions on education but the subject matter was ignored until finally I said to my friend and colleague  Senator Murphy  in another place 'Would you like to present one of these in the Senate?', and surely enough he did. After he presented the petition, which called for an inquiry into all kinds of important educational matters on which we had been pressing the Government for answers, he moved that the petition be referred to a standing com- mittee of the Senate. That is another part of our parliamentary institution which is starting to get results on these matters. 
It certainly was referred to a Standing Committee of the Senate and it was given very serious, effective and satisfying consideration. Many thousands of constituents have been rea.sonably placated as a result of that sensible attitude which was adopted. I take great pride in the fact that I am a member of this Parliament - the people's parliament. I do not want to see this Parliament drop behind in lis status or standing, its efficiency or its responsiveness to constituents. The Senate is doing a good thing by referring so many of these petitions, not just the one to which I referred but so many others, to its standing committees. Obviously, unless our status is going to drop, unless our effectiveness and efficiency is to decline, we have to find an effective repository for petitions, rather than the dark, dismal and despondent dungeons of this Parliament. This is why my friend the honourable member for Corio has proposed the course of action which is the subject of the amendment now under debate. Does anybody really feel that when the late  Dr Evatt,  for example, brought in that enormous pile of petitions that stood as high as the books which are on the table, no-one would give consideration to the subject matter in the petitions? Of course, that would be a ridiculous point of view and 1 have too much regard for the common sense of honourable members even to consider that it was possible for honourable members to hold an attitude of that kind. 
There are some humble fishermen in my electorate who recently resorted to this ancient process of petitioning the Parliament. Why did they do this? They had written to me about pollution of the south coast. They complained about the fact that the Coalcliff colliery was pouring thousands of gallons of coal wash into the sea, spoiling about 30 miles of the coast. They wrote letters to me and 1 passed them on to the responsible Minister. Then I sent a number of telegrams to the Minister. Then I raised the matter in this House, but still there was no response. The fishermen, on their own initiative, inquired as to what they could do and discovered this ancient process of petitioning. They discovered the formal wording and subsequently they forwarded a petition, not in the hope that it would find the same unhappy end that my letters, telegrams and speech in the Parliament had found, but hoping that their protest might be treated with some dignity. Now it is proposed in this House thai a certain course of action should be pursued to enable that to be done. The honourable member for Ryan, I think, said that in 1947 hundreds of petitions were presented. 
The honourable member for North Sydney, was it? I did not think it was possible for anyone to make so many mistakes in one short speech. Obviously I was hoping that someone else had made that mistake because the honourable member is a friend of mine. I do not want to do him a disservice. I checked the records and 1 found that only 93 petitions were presented in 1947. 
In the whole parliamentary year. 
Who is making this speech? That is a bit different from (he 723 petitions presented in 1971. What was the reason for this? It would seem to me that in 1947 there might have been some response to petitions and that there might not have been any need for this endless repetition in the presentations of petitions which has been the subject of complaint by honourable members opposite. 
Let us take into account that the Ministry, expanded as it is, has recently been supplemented by 6 Assistant Ministers. None of us on this side of the chamber has been able to identify any bona fide thing which those Assistant Ministers have to do or which we would regard as being acceptable for them to do. For example, if my constituents asked me to make representations to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is presently sitting at the table, and if be were to call on someone else to reply to those representations, 1 would regard it as an insult and a downgrading of the matter which I had raised on behalf of my constituents. We have not found anything which we have been prepared to concede is the bona fide and legitimate prerogative of Assistant Ministers. But in all fairness, let me say that I would be prepared to consider the idea that, if a Minister was too busy or if he was incompetent, he ought to be able to utilise the services of an Assistant Minister to study the subject matter of petitions. We would be gratified even to have that procedure, rather than to see petitions go into a state of political limbo. We would much prefer to have a reply under the name, of an Assistant Minister than to have no reply at all. 
I think that a very sensible proposal has been advanced. If the period of 21 days suggested in the amendment is not long enough, I think that the honourable member for Corio would be quite, accommodating. Let us treat the electorate with some respect. Let us indicate to the electors that the matter that has agitated them to the, point of walking the streets and knocking on doors in order to enlist the aid of sympathetic people about their cause is considered to be of such a nature in this Parliament that the petitions which they tender will receive consideration by somebody with some authority in the Parliament. 
I second the amendment. I have had the disadvantage of not concentrating on what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said. As I understand it, he is putting the very simple proposition that, in the presentation of petitions and in consideration of the intelligent application of the honourable members of the Parliament to the procedures of the Parliament, there should be a requirement that when a petition is presented it should be read on at least one occasion. I think that undoubtedly this needs the consideration of members of the Parliament because the way petitions are presented by members in some cases not only leaves a lot to be desired but also leaves out a lot of the substance of the terms of the petition as prepared by the petitioners. It is important therefore that the parliamentarians should have the opportunity of knowing what it is about. There is the added need to ensure that the Hansard record includes a full account of the terms of the petition and, indeed, that the listeners to the parliamentary proceedings also have the benefit of that information. 
This matter came into sharp relief in this House the other day. It was in respect of petitions concerning the closing of post offices. I am not sure how many presentations there were, but there was a considerable number, all of which were given in the synopsis form as laid down by the  Clerk  of the House for the benefit of members. Outside the Parliament, thousands of people have signed the petitions. They are what the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  would probably call the misguided people who sign petitions to this Parliament. There are also other people who have never heard of this issue and, if they are to take an intelligent interest in the proceedings of this Parliament, we should be able to engage in the luxury of having the petition read at least once, especially on the marathon occasion when there were 30 members presenting identical petitions. I know that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  is not listening to this because he has the numbers. However, it would be a very intelligent and useful contribution to the proceedings tonight if we had some sensible explanation of why the proposal by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is to be rejected with the heavy weight of Government numbers. We have had too much steamrolling. That is the sort of thing about which we are talking here tonight. We do not want just the weight of numbers; we want some intelligent arguments and replies. 
It is not good enough to say that the Committee has put something up and no amendments will be accepted. Surely committees do not intend that to happen. If this were the case, why bring the recommendations to the Parliament in the form that has been adopted, clause by clause? Obviously the recommendations have been brought before the Parliament so that there can be hard application by the Parliament to all the issues involved. Obviously they were brought in this form so that there would be opportunities to move amendments. Is the Government just going to give lip service to this parliamentary practice? Is it going to be mere hypocrisy and humbug, or will the Government face up to facts that are put to it by an intelligent and competent member? What is the point of talking about standing orders at all if we are to have continuous stupidity? I believe that it is high time we started at least to have some reasons given. All through the proceedings tonight in regard to the various proposals made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  we have had this rejection because the Government has the numbers and the Committee did not recommend those proposals in the first place. 
I put it to the Minister for National Development and whoever else might be prepared to come in now and take the medicine from the succeeding speakers on this side of the House that there is a case to answer and we require them to answer it tonight because the proposal by the honourable member for Wills is an intelligent one and has the backing of honourable members on this side of the House. This was demonstrated the other day and on other occasions when members on both sides of the House took the opportunity, on their own initiative, to read a petition because it had been read in the synopsis form on so many occasions. I appeal to the Minister tonight to work on this just a little harder in view of the fact that this is a debate about standing orders. Unless we can achieve a practice of adopting decent attitudes and procedures and having respect for members in the very nature of debate, there is no doubt that we will have little chance of getting the reformation of the Standing Orders that we need. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Will the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  be good enough to advise the House of the reason for the proposed amendment. I do not have the amendment in front of me, but I believe that it will substitute some terminology such as 'the appropriate Minister' for the term 'Treasurer', ls the Minister able to say whether a specific Minister is responsible for the Publications Committee? In that event, of course, it might be possible to mention the Minister in more precise terms. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
In what circumstances are persons over 21 years of age excluded from the provisions of the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
What were the production errors which caused the immigration booklet 'Employment'  to  be withdrawn from circulation in 1971. 
What was the cost of printing the publication and how many copies were actually printed and withdrawn from circulation. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Can he indicate which universities, through their educational research units, have undertaken the activities he reported in answer to Question No. 2275 (Hansard, 23rd September 1971, pages 1590-1). 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What is the (a) number and (b) classification of personnel employed in the section of his Department concerned with the Environment. 
What are the section's main objectives and what is being done to achieve them. 
What enactments are administered by the section. 
Has his Department initiated any action against persons or companies contributing to the impairment of the environment; if so, what are the details. 
I want to discuss the threat to the coal industry and the need for the establishment of a national fuel policy. I want to talk about the impending closure of underground coal mines in New South Wales and Queensland with the consequences of large scale unemployment and serious damage to the economy of mining communities together with irretrievable impairment of resources and capital development. The announced intention of American owned Clutha Development Pty Ltd to close the South Clifton and North Bulli No. 2 coal mines on the south coast of New South Wales is an ominous warning of a large scale and rapidly developing crisis in the Australian coal industry. It underlines the need for a national price for coal, as is the case with iron ore, uranium, woodchip and certain primary industries. Soon after the closure of these mines flooding will occur and this valuable resource of hard coking coal will be lost irretrievably. The South Clifton mine is said to have some 26 million tons or 294 acres of high grade coking coal yet to be mined. 
The present crisis has been precipitated by the loss of Italian markets by the Clutha mines to the Goonyella open cut mine in the Bowen Basin, Queensland, which is owned by the Utah Development Company. It is worth noting that Australian hold only 10 per cent of the shares in Utah's interests in the Central Queensland Coal Association, a joint enterprise with Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd. Although the price of Queensland open cut coal to Italy has not been disclosed it is believed to be on a similar basis as Goonyella sales to Japan, said to be $11.18 a ton as against an average price of $13.16 a ton f.o.b. for Clifton coal. The open cut mines of Queensland have enormous production cost advantages over both Queensland and New South Wales underground mines. Additionally the Queensland Government is recklessly allowing its coal to go at the give away royalty price of 5c a ton and a net rail freight return of only 23c a ton. Shipment of coal from Hay Point near Mackay also is economically advantaged as ships up to 110,000 tons deadweight can use that port as against the smaller ships which use the traditional coal discharging ports in New South Wales such as Newcastle with a maximum of 58,000 tons deadweight, Balmain with 44,000 tons deadweight and Port Kemble with 58,000 tons deadweight. 
The inevitable sequel to this market price advantage is the relegation of many established mines in New South Wales and Queensland and disaster to the highly committed communities which serve them. The  Chairman  of the New South Wales Joint Coal Board,  Mr Hartnell,  has stated: 
The present marketing policies being followed by Utah could well have serious consequences for both Queensland and New South Wales underground mines. The order of advantage of Utah's coal  costwise  is about $4 a ton. 
In New South Wales, underground mines produce more than 92 per cent of the State's coal output.  Mr Evan  Phillips, the General  President  of the Miners Federation, has said: 
If open cut mining development in Queensland was allowed to continue without control all underground mines in New South Wales would be put out of business. 
He predicted that the Utah-Mitsubishi consortium could have a complete monopoly of the 20 million ton coal export trade within a few years. Known resources controlled by Utah contain some 325 million tons of open cut coal, while another consortium holds even bigger resources in the Hales Creek area of central Queensland. Utah has declared that its recoverable reserves of low volatile coal with an ash content of less than 8 per cent amount to 1,000 million tons. Speculation now is rife that Utah may soon swallow up more of the Japanese export trade and so imperil the livelihood of thousands of underground miners in varipus parts of New South Wales and Queensland. 
As the Utah-Mitsubishi consortium ravages the easily won high grade coking coal from its open cuts, it is stock piling huge reserves of low priced steaming coal for future use in the local market. In this regard the Queensland Government mining journal reports: 
As a result of certain provisions included in the Central Queensland Coal Associates Agreement Act 1968, the Queensland Government will be able to purchase very cheap coal for use in State power stations. 
The Goonyella open cut project in central Queensland was opened last November. It is linked by 125 miles of railway to a new port at Hay Point near Mackay. Orders already have been secured for the supply of 85 million tons of coal to Japanese steel, gas and chemical companies over 13 years. Next year the price for this contract drops to $US11.98 per long ton f.o.b and will remain at that rate at least until 1977 with a maximum possible price escalation of 30c. 
The Central Queensland Coal Association also will bring the new Peak Downs open cut into production this year. Then in 1974 the Saraji open cut will open, to be followed by yet another project, the Norwich Park mine, which is scheduled to come into production in 1975. With these 4 mines in production this AmericanJapanese group will swallow up some 18 million tons of the market each year on  a  capital investment of about $400m. The Miners Federation contends that in Queensland, as in New South Wales, open cut production should be regulated by integrating open cut and underground mining to preserve the mining life of that region and to bring long term benefit to that State and to the nation. 
Through its inaction the Government has encouraged unbridled cut-throat competition and price undercutting by foreign owned companies in the Australian coal industry. Australia's low volatile and low ash content coking coal used for steel making is among the best in the world, yet it is notoriously underpriced as a result of the Government's failure to formulate a national fuel and marketing authority and the complete absence of any national guidelines for production and marketing. Comparable coal from the United States of America was sold at prices in excess of $US20 a ton f.o.b. On the other hand Goonyella and Peak Downs coal is being supplied this year at SUS 12.84 a long ton and for the period 1973 to 1977 will sell at $US12.63 a long ton. Whilst the Japanese buy nationally, Australia does not sell nationally. Our producers are being pitted against one another in a ruthless price cutting competition which is denied any Government support, regulation or protection. Now the chickens are fast coming home to roost and the situation calls for an end to Government indifference. The Joint Coal Board has warned about this trend. In its last report it states: 
The Board has been and continues to be critical of the unduly low prices at which our export coals continue to be sold. An increase of about $2 per ton is justified and Australian export coal would still remain relatively cheap. 
Australian Coal resources are in the ratio of 4 to 1: That is, 80 per cent of our recoverable coal can be won by underground mining and 20 per cent by open cut mining. To husband our resources properly and to prevent the collapse of the underground section of the industry, coal production must be undertaken on the 4 to 1 basis. 
No mines need close if this Government acts quickly by utilisating its powers under the Coal Industry Act to facilitate the short term stockpiling of South Clifton and Bulli output until a national marketing plan is introduced. Has this Government any answer to the crisis confronting the coal industry? Will the Government hide behind the Constitution as an alibi for its indecision and inaction? Is our Prime Minister capable of standing up. to the intimidatory and parochial stand . of the Queensland Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, who shows a complete incapacity to think nationally on this question? A national fuel authority must be established quickly. Guidelines must be formulated to regulate production, marketing and the price of coal. Existing mines must be kept in production. Above all, miners who have gone into the bowels of the earth to win its riches for the benefit of all Australians must be given the security of full employment and the sanctuary of the home and the community in which they and their families live. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that a spokesman for PekoWallsend Ltd recently announced his company's intention to secure overseas uranium markets by disposing of equity in Australian uranium mines to overseas interests? Would such a policy meet with Government approval? If not, will the Government act and say now what it will do to prevent even partial ownership of these valuable mineral resources from falling into foreign hands? 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the (a) tonnage, (b) description and (c) contract price of each ship being built in (i) Australia and (ii) overseas for the Australian National Line. 
Are vessels of the Australian National Line required to place a substantial proportion of repairs, docking and maintenance work with Australian shipyards. 
At what overseas shipyards have vessels of the Australian National Line been repaired during the last 12 months. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Which Post Offices have been closed in each State since 1st January 1971. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in establishing a training school for film and television producers which the Prime Minister indicated on 26th October 1971 (Hansard, page 2514) will become the subject of a proposal which could be presented to the Government well before the next Budget and not necessarily, therefore, in a Budget context 
So far as the Opposition is concerned there is a great deal of gratification that this establishment is to be improved in the manner outlined by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who represents the Minister for Works. The No. 2 Stores Depot of the Royal Australian Air Force has had a chequered career since it was established in 1940 soon after the commencement of the Second World War. At that time it was scattered into about 10 old and sometimes inadequate buildings throughout the Sydney city area. Six years later it was moved to Regents Park in the western suburbs of Sydney to a fine site of 117 acres. Many people are doing an important job for the Royal Australian Air Force in this establishment. For many years they have been working under great difficulty. I think 880 personnel are involved at this establishment, and a tribute should be paid to them for the manner in which they have accounted for themselves in the face of all those problems. 
The importance of No. 2 Stores Depot is demonstrated by the fact that it is a specialist store for all RAAF units. It provides technical equipment and spares for Caribou, Hercules, Iroquois and the Mirage aircraft. It supplies engine spares for Mystere and Orion aircraft. In addition it supplies guided missile spares and maintenance equipment for the Royal Australian Air Force. It is a specialised depot for aerial pickup, cargo tiedown, airfield construction and communications equipment. It also provides training devices for the whole Air Force. There are 2 other stores in Australia - No. 1 at Tottenham in Victoria and No. 7 at Toowoomba in Queensland. But this particular store at Regents Park is the most important and, I think, the largest. For example it has 400,000 store items and handles 21,000 outgoing lines each month. One can imagine the extent of the work involved when one considers that all these items have to be received as well. There have been 15 storage warehouses at the depot occupying some 620,000 square feet. 
As the Minister has pointed out, the proposal, which is to cost about $3.4m, includes a warehouse, a new office and a new guard house. Generally speaking, the whole establishment is to be upgraded. Regarding the Public Works Committee inquiry, I make the point that on this occasion again there was some indication that the views of local government authorities were not taken sufficiently into account. Many such instances have been brought to the attention of the Committee in recent times. It would be a mistake to let the occasion go by, now that the report is before the House, without drawing attention to this regrettable tendency on the part of the Department of Works and some client departments not to confer adequately with local government. Sometimes the same kind of thing happens with State instrumentalities as well. It is very important that an effective relationship should be developed between the 3 arms of government. Although this has not been a matter of great consequence in regard to this RAAF establishment, it is another example. Every time this sort of thing happens it is my intention to draw it to the attention of the House. The proposed work represents worthwhile improvements from the standpoint of the RAAF. It will help the personnel tremendously in the important work they do at this depot of servicing Royal Australian Air Force establishments throughout Australia. For that reason I join with the Minister in welcoming the development which I am sure the Parliament intends to approve. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What is the waiting period for admission to Commonwealth Rehabilitation Centres in each State. 
Have all applications by his Department to the Public Service Board for approval of doctors' positions for the Rehabilitation Service been approved; if not, how many positions are there for which approval has yet to be gained. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
In view of the lack of doctors interested in a rehabilitation medical career as referred to in the 1970-71 report of his Department, what steps are being taken by his Department to induce doctors into this field or to accept responsibility for recruitment and training of medical students who are prepared to enter the Rehabilitation Service on graduation. 
I am the first to confess that I do not know a great deal about the first amendment which had earlier been foreshadowed or the second amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  I was impressed by the comments of my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  who, as all honourable members know, is very experienced in the art of the media and he is probably experienced in the art of smoking for all I know, so in several aspects he can claim to have some expertise in regard to this matter. It seems to me - and I need to claim a little licence here - that there is a steadfast diminution of the high ideals about this whole proposal. First of all, we started off with a suggestion that the National Health and Medical Research Council would be referred to as the warning body. It is a highly respected authority. No-one in this House would disparage that Council, which has rendered great service to the Minister for Health and to the nation at large. 
Why is it that the Government wants to move away from the initial proposal in the Bill? The Postmaster-General wants to use the reputation and prestige of the Australian Government to impress the young people of this country about the hazards of smoking. When you get to the stage where the Government is at the bottom of the barrel in public prestige, when the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of this country can command about only 25 per cent of the votes, according to the gallup polls, it seems to me that this Government has not got its heart in discouraging people from smoking. Obviously the Minister's first proposal was the sensible one because the National Health and Medical Research Council is a high status, highly respected public authority which is not cluttered up in any way with the trappings of government, the degeneration of Government parties or anything else. Young people would probably respond to the prestigious elements and characteristics associated with that body. We might as well say: 'Billy McMahon tells the young people of Australia not to smoke'. How effective would that be? It is well known how the Prime Minister stands with young people. He is unprepared to give them a vote. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I think the honourable gentleman is getting a little wide of the clause. 
I am sorry if I am. I certainly was not intending to. It seems to me most undesirable that the Minister should bring about this watering down of the prestigious backing up of the advertisements with which we will be inundated. Today there is a high incidence of advertising. The Minister probably knows how many times we will hear this warning each day. Would it be SO times or 70 times a day? Does the Government want to use this technique to advertise itself, to give the impression that it is really interested in eliminating lung cancer and cigarette smoking by saying that the Australian Government warns that smoking is a health hazard? If it is trying to give that impression, it is obviously a false impression to give, because there are so many other things the Government could do quite effectively if it was as concerned as other countries are about discouraging young people from smoking. 
Then we have the other proposed wording of the warning, which I know I cannot talk about at length. But in the context of what I am saying, there is this sequence of events. The original proposal was that the warning should refer to the National Health and Medical Research Council, and then it was to mention the Australian Government. Now there is a projected amendment referring to medical authorities warning that smoking is a health hazard. I know that I cannot speak about that, but just how far would we go with young people if we tried to give them the impression that the warning came from the medical profesion or the Australian Medical Association, which commanded the headlines tonight because the doctors want more money. If we start to give the impression that they are behind this, people will think that there is something crook about the whole business. Obviously the Minister was on the right tack in the first place. He is now trying to get the Government into the act. I think he would do much better to leave the matter in the hands of an authority which will stand the test of time, and an honest and irreproachable body such as the National Health and Medical Research Council. I am not sure whether I can refer even to the amendment of the honourble member for Isaacs, but he was talking about cigarette smoking being dangerous to health. 
I thank the Minister for putting the position into sharp relief because I was not concentrating as hard as I should have been on the matter. The fact of the matter is that I cannot separate some reference to the projected or supplementary amendment of the honourable member for Isaacs. I think it is a great tragedy if he is to commence talking about medical authorities instead of the prestigious National Health and Medical Research Council. I should also like to know why the Minister is exuberant, as apparently he is, about eliminating the reference to smoking being dangerous. This seems to imply a very half-hearted effort on the part of the Government. It obviously wants to water down the impact of the warning. It has to make up its mind. Is the Government interested in discouraging young people from smoking or not? I noticed today some of the lobbyists from the great tobacco companies around the lobbies and corridors of Parliament House. We hear of political slush funds. I do not know where the money goes. It is strange that the first warning proposed by the Government was to be backed by a very significant public authority and that all of a sudden there was this steadfast degeneration in 2 phases until we finally get to the stage that the Government is not even prepared to tell young people that smoking is dangerous. I ask the Minister to get up at some stage of the debate and explain why he has taken that wording out and why he is starting to relegate this whole matter to a warning from the medical profession rather than a public authority that commands the respect of this country. 

 - Mr Speaker, in the same vein 1 want to say how disappointed and concerned I am at this evening's course of events which I regard to be unprecedented during the period 1 have been in this Parliament. It is a bad indication of the shape of things to come. Concern was expressed by honourable members from both sides of the House, indeed by distinguished honourable members, about the change in the Government's attitude to this question since its Party meeting today. One must speculate about the reasons for these changes. I do not think the House can discount the very serious situation which occurred this evening when Government supporters grouped together when this surprise was sprung upon them, trying to find some reason, some justification- 
I appreciate what you say,  Mr Speaker.  I express disappointment that the views expressed by the hon ourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  - a distinguished member of this Parliament who occupies the position as  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee and who was a former Minister for the Government - in asking the Government to take another look at the Bill and not to force a vote were not heeded. This is a matter of great regret which brings into disrepute the attitude that the Government has pursued on this matter. I have stood simply to say that it is unparalleled in the history of this Parliament that there should be a reversal of policy on such a critical matter. This throws a dubious perspective over the whole proceedings. 
The Bill before the House is significant in that it facilitates the continued operation of the Joint Committee on Public Works. The Opposition does not object to the Bill in any shape or form but 1 take the opportunity to make a few comments about the function of the Public Works Committee. As honourable members probably know, the Public Works Committee is a joint committee comprised of 9 members  -  3 senators and 6 members of the House of Representatives. The Committee has a prerogative, on behalf of this Parliament, in respect of the continuation, completion, repair and construction of Commonwealth projects involving expenditure of over $750,000. This covers a wide range of projects. lt is interesting to note that the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr J.  R. Odgers, in a recent paper, said that the difference between the Australian Parliament and the United States Congress was that every Bill in the United States was subjected to the examination of a committee. I would not be at all surprised if highly beneficial results accrued from that process. In order to explain the American thinking behind this public examination of the Bills by committees,  Mr Odgers  quoted  Mr Alexander  Wiley, former  Chairman  of the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, who said: 
History has shown us that the best law is the one which is based upon the most widespread human knowledge and proper ascertainment ot the facts. The rule made by one man is not nearly as good as the one a man would mab", after consultation with those who are intimately acquainted with the situation the rule is designed to cover. 
I think that is the underlying philosophy of the Commonwealth Joint Committee on Public Works and other joint committees such as the Joint Committee of Public Accounts which renders a valuable service on behalf of this Parliament. 
The limited purpose of this Bill is to lift the annual expenditure, which the Committee utilises, from $20,000 to $30,000. This involves an amendment to section 36 of the principal Act. Without going into great detail I think it is worth mentioning that this Act is most remarkable in many ways and, in fact, has unique chacteristics. Time could be spent by the House beneficially in having a good look at the terms and terminology of the Act. It seems to me that the Act perpetuates a lot of attitudes which were first encompassed in the principal Act in 1913. It is quite amazing to see the penalties which are provided under this Act. To enable honourable members to understand what I am talking about I shall mention briefly several of these penalties. I refer, for example, to the power to require appearance and the production of documents. This power may be exercised by the  chairman  or a member of the Committee. He may require any appropriate person to come before the Committee at an appointed time to produce documents. If there is a non-compliance with this request the  chairman  or a member of the Committee may issue a warrant for the apprehension of the person concerned. The  chairman  or a member of the Committee may cause that person to be detained in custody until he is released by order of the  chairman  or a member of the Committee. 
The Act enables a warrant to be executed and provides that a person in executing a warrant may break and enter a building, place, vehicle or vessel for the purpose of executing the warrant. There is also in this Act a section dealing with the failure of a witness to attend an inquiry. I was surprised to find that failure to appear at an inquiry may attract a penalty of $400 or imprisonment for one year. I am not terribly au fait with the legal processes that prevail at the present time but I would not be surprised if this provision were a little bit exceptional. There is also provision in the Act relating to a person who fails to answer a question at an inquiry. Such a person can be fined $400 or imprisoned for one year. Also if a person gives false evidence on oath or affirmation before the Committee he may be imprisoned for 5 years. A number of other provisions in the Act are just as surprising. Glancing through the Act I can see a provision which deals with the type of court in which offences under this Act are to be dealt with. It seems that offences under this Act are brought before a court of summary jurisdiction, which court may commit the defendant for trial or determine the proceedings. 
It is interesting to note also that a section in this Act provides for a penalty of $400 or imprisonment for one year for any person who discloses information which was made available to the Commute in private. I see that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, is sitting in the House. I am pleased to see that he is present. I just want to give him some indication that before this week is out I will probably talk about a person who has disclosed information. I am referring to an honourable member who holds a very high position in this Parliament and who has, in my opinion,breached section 23 (5.) of the Public Works Act. Although he is a member of this House he may be in a position to attract the imposition of a $400 fine or imprisonment for one year. I am sure that the honourable member for Wakefield knows what I am referring to. When the Committee is discussing the report concerning the HMAS 'Stirling' naval base I will be able to put the matter into sharp relief. 
The volume of work carried out by the Public Works Committee has increased quite steadily and to a very large extent, if not phenomenally. If one looks at recent reports of the Committee it will be seen that whereas 3 reports were tabled in 1960, the number increased to 22 reports in 1970. In 1970 the Committee as an extraneous operation, additional to the work that is generally undertaken by honourable members, conducted 57 meetings. The 21st Public Works Committee in its 33rd general report of 1971 referred to the fact that meetings took place in Canberra, in every State capital city, in Alice Springs, Darwin and at Manus Island. The Committee did not have just the one meeting at those places; it went around Australia and visited the Northern Territory on many occasions. I notice that the value of works which the Committee rceommended to the Parliament for approval amounted to $125m. In 1971 18 reports were presented by the Committee, 1 1 of which related to the Northern Territory, and 61 meetings were conducted by the Committee. These reports and meetings covered a wide range of subjects. This is a point which 1 want to emphasise especially. Surely there must be a breaking point for a committee of this kind. 
This is the point. As the honourable member for Wills indicates, we may well have reached the time when consideration might be given to affording to other members of this Parliament the opportunity to be involved in Public Works Committees. I suggest that if the process of examining proposals to undertake Commonwealth projects involving more than $750,000 continues to involve the presentation of 22 reports a year, il should be apparent to everyone that this Committee will have to be very highly specialised and that members of the Committee who undertake this specialised work will virtually be doing it at the expense of their other parliamentary duties. There is nothing at all to prevent the appointment of a second Public Works Committee. 1 am sure that there would be a very real willingness on the part of members of both Houses to participate in such a committee. 
One of the difficulties which faces the Public Works Committee is that it is not concerned with just one category or subject of inquiry. The matters for inquiry range very widely and are shifting very rapidly from one specialty to another. In one week the Committee may be inquiring into proposed works at the tactical training naval base in Sydney, which is a highly technical subject. It may be that the very next day the Committee could be inspecting a beef road, a power station in the Northern Territory or perhaps a residential college for Aboriginals in the Northern Territory. lt may be inspecting an Air Force base in some part of Australia. It may be a naval base or some other defence facility. There is an enormous amount of specialisation involved in the work undertaken by this Committee. 
In connection with this specialisation I just want to make some reference to the extent of servicing of the Public Works Committee in Australia compared with what takes place in the United States of America. 1 notice in the United States Legislative Re organisation Act 1970 provision for an increase in the number of personnel serving the committees. The United States has committees representative of both the Congress and the Senate. 1 was very interested to note that there is provision in the United States legislation to enable staff members or research members to be selected by a majority of the minority party on a committee. Of course the matters which come before the Public Works Committee reflect Government priority on matters which have been decided upon by the Cabinet. Many of the proposals before the Committee involve philosophical and other important principles. The emphasis placed on these principles by a member on one side of this House might be different from the emphasis given by a member on the other side of the House. It is very interesting to note that not only are members of the United Slates committees serviced with impartiality but also, it seems, there is an implication that Government supporters are serviced by people of their own choice and persuasion and thai Opposition members, who compose the minority group in the Committee, are likewise given the opportunity of having that kind of logistical backup. lt is very interesting to note that the Standing Public Works Committee of the United States Senate has a staff of 31 personnel and that the United States House of Representatives Public Works Committee has no fewer than 23 personnel. In that country specialised and highly trained people are involved with the Committee in an advisory and logistical capacity. These people include engineering consultants, counsel, project consultants and the like. I do not want to take any more time than is necessary. The other few points I want to make concern some tendencies and trends in the Committee which I believe ought to be the subject of very sensitive reaction. I have already given some indication of the fact that there seems to be a tendency on the part of some senior people in the Government to utilise and make advantage of information which comes before the Committee both in private and in public. Associated with this is a noticeable tendency to pre-empt the decisions of the Committee. I draw attention to that in the hope that members of the Parliament generally might come to understand the traditions of the 
Public Works Committee and so that this indelicate practice and behaviour already in evidence, as I say, might cease. 
There are other matters which all the Parliament would be concerned about, and they especially involve an increasing tendency to relegate the role of the Committee to that of a rubber stamp. This is especially brought about by the timetabling process. There is a steam-rollering process resulting from the time-table, and it virtually has the effect of putting the Public Works Committee over the barrel; that is to say, because of the limited time available and because the Committee is anxious to co-operate as it should with the Government, some decisions are taken which possibly would not be taken if more time were made available. I remember one classical case in point. It concerns the Avalon air training facility. We were told that a new aircraft was coming and that people had to be trained for this aircraft. We were told also that there was nowhere else in Australia where the training could be undertaken. Although a number of members, possibly a majority of members, of that Committee were not at all enthusiastic about the proposal to locate that training base at Avalon we felt we were obliged to decide on this site even though people might be adversely affected by aircraft noise in that area. We felt we were obliged to make this decision because this aircraft would be arriving in Australia and otherwise we would have insufficiently trained pilots and personnel. Other examples of this could be brought to light in the course of this debate. There is also a tendency for the Committee to be taken for granted in that there is sometimes a complete preparation of plans and schedules before the Committee's inquiry is completed. 
I make those points because I believe that the Committee's work is becoming of increasing importance, and therefore there should be an increasing emphasis on the impartiality of the Committee, the need to prevent the pressurisation and the need properly to time-table the Committee's work. I notice from a schedule that has been made available to me that a very considerable time elapses between when Cabinet has a look at a project and decides that the matter has to be dealt with, and when it is referred to the Committee. 
Some 3 months elapses from when Cabinet looks at a proposal until it in fact comes before the Public Works Committee. I have a feeling that the Public Works Committee is degenerating into something like a nuts and bolts committee and is being encouraged, if not diverted, to look at a lot of matters that ought to be regarded as the substantial prerogative of the expertise that is available in the Department of Works. In other words the members of the Committee do not want to look at the size of reinforced steel joists, the specifications of concrete foundations or what kind of scantling timbers are to be used in the walls or ceilings of a building. 
The Committee ought to provide very early opportunities for the public and others to express their views about the need of the facility. I believe that from the time when the matter comes before Cabinet until Cabinet gives its preliminary approval for the work we should be thinking of the need to conduct a needs hearing. This should go on for some time, if necessary, well before the time when the Department of Works sets about the preparation of detailed plans and specifications. At the present time the work of the Committee is more or less pre-empted by the fact that the very detailed planning is undertaken and the plans are often prepared by the Department of Works at the time when the proposed work actually comes before the Committee for public investigation. 1 commend the Bill to the House. It is of little consequence in itself but it affords this rare opportunity to say a few words in a more public way about the work of the Public Works Committee than it is usual for members to do. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
How many senior citizens' centres have been provided in each State and Territory under the provisions of the States Grants (Home Care) Act. 
Does capital expenditure incurred in respect of senior citizens' centres by (a) local government authorities, (b) service clubs, (c) churches, (d) trade unions and (e) aged persons organisations qualify for subsidy under the Act. 
How many welfare officers are now subsidised under the Act. 
Are any subsidies paid in respect of the salaries of welfare officers or social workers employed by local government authorities. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Why has the Government discriminated against the building and construction industry by excluding it from the Initial Investment Allowance as restored with effect from 24th February 1972. 
Has his attention been drawn to the complaint on this matter by the Master Builder's Federation of Australia in its Canberra Newsletter of February 1972. 
If so, did the Federation state that it has been pointed out forcibly to the Government that individual members of the organisation have been consistent and substantial supporters of the Government in its election campaigns in the past and that it would expect the Government to acknowledge that support and the role and significance of the industry in the general economy. 
If the merits of the claim of this industry are to be reconsidered prior to the introduction of legislation amending the Income Tax Assessment Act, will he ensure that the attitude of the Government will reflect the significant economic factors involved rather than the financial support received by the Government from master builders at election time. 
1 am indebted to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the  Chairman  of the Committee, for bringing this matter to the House in such a frank and forthright fashion. I would have hoped that the Prime Minister might have been here to make his own explanation, because doubtless the parliamentary grapevine has operated in such a way as to cause him to know of the concern of the Public Works Committee. I would be unhappy to feel that if the Prime Minister were aware of this reaction, he might not be treating it seriously. 
The honourable member for Wakefield talked about the traditions of the Committee. It is fair to say that during his period of office as  chairman  the traditions of the Committee have been upheld. The Public Works Act was enacted in 1913. If one takes the trouble to walk into the Public Works meeting room, one can see photographs of the Committee members over that period of time, and it is not long after one joins the Committee that the message starts to come through about the impartiality of the Committee in the performance of its work. 
Contrary to what the honourable member for Wakefield predicted, I am not going to go over all the pros and cons of the HMAS Stirling project. Honourble members have before them a report that summarises the transcript of evidence. The transcript of evidence is a voluminous document. It was a most extensive hearing. I understand that some 32 witnesses appeared before the Committee and most of them represented organisations of significance in Western Australia. They included conservation groups and the representatives of residents, government representatives, local government representatives, historical and recreation interests, among others. The very heavy burden of the evidence put before the Committee was about this vexed question as to how much area should be made available to the public. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has mentioned the strategic necessity of the base, the suitability of the base, and matters of that kind. I do not intend to traverse those matters here because that was first done in the Committee at the time the causeway was under examination, the causeway that is to cost $9m. This second leg of the project is to cost $30m. Obviously, once we decide on the causeway - and the fact is that the causeway is well under construction - we can hardly argue about whether or not the base itself should be there. But we did argue about it very considerably in the Committee when the causeway was under investigation. Indeed, we brought that report back to this Parliament and had a debate here. I expressed my view about the unsuitability of the Cockburn 
Sound base on that occasion. However, I will bypass that, and I will bypass many other matters, some of which are quite significant, including such issues as the ones of which the  chairman  made some brief mention, concerning the new motel accommodation that is to be provided there which is a departure from the scales and standards that generally prevail. Carpets are being put in - sensibly enough, I think - but nevertheless without proper authority according to the prevailing scales and standards. There are many matters about which one could talk and take up the time of the House. If honourable members are interested in these things, and in all the pros and cons of the project, I suggest that they read the transcript of evidence. I shall concentrate my remarks on what was said by the honourable member for Wakefield. 
The heavy burden of evidence was about the question of public access to Garden Island. In many respects, the people of the west are tranquil by the standards that prevail in the east. Such an issue would probably provoke public demonstrations and a lot of agitation if it occurred in Sydney, and possibly in Melbourne. Indeed, in Perth and Fremantle there was a lot of concern, as was indicated by the incidence of ear stickers around the place, about the need to preserve Garden Island for the public. There was a parade through a part of Perth, and there were other manifestations of public concern. All the time the Committee was sitting there were a considerable number of people in attendance, nearly all of them of a representative nature-; they were representing the substantial organisations. 
The Committee was inundated with representations about the need to preserve the history of the area. Of course, it is an historical place. The island is the location of relics of the historical settlement in 1829. The Committee was inundated with requests for environmental protection, to avoid erosion and to safeguard the limited and vulnerable vegetation, and lots of similar issues. However, the Committee had evidence mainly from the recreationally oriented groups, the fishermen and the boating clubs, saying that this island is terribly important to the people of Perth and 
Fremantle because, unlike many other parts of Australia, there are not a lot of safe harbours for their boats, and so on. 
The Committee gave this matter a lot of thought. If honourable members read the transcript of evidence, they will see that there was an enormous amount of intelligent interrogation about the prospects of making extra land available for the public. Of course, we were unable to disclose what our inclinations were about this matter. The Navy subsequently came back near the end of the inquiry in Perth, on 7th April, and told us, in effect, that it had given earnest thought to the submissions made, and to the obvious concern of many members of the Committee about the fact that the island was to be substantially restricted for public use, and that about 150 cottage people looked like being moved off the island. The Navy representative said, We think it is possible to make available 1250 acres for public purposes'. 
That information was made available in public, whereupon the Committee went into committee and it received a letter from the Navy, a letter privy to the Committee, dated 18th April, saying that 1850 acres could probably be made available. This was not public knowledge at all. To our amazement, without the public having any opportunity to know about this offer by the Navy, which we might even have rejected for one reason or another, the Prime Minister made a statement, which was not just a mere aside but a preconceived statement and the subject of a Press release, and so jettisoned one of the most highly regarded traditions of the Public Works Committee. A report of the Prime Minister's statement appeared in the 'West Australian' on Friday, 5th May 1972. It was given a banner headline on the front page - 'More Garden Island to be for Public'. The report goes on to spell it out. It includes a lengthy Press statement, and the part I want to read is a quotation from what the Prime Minister released: 
We had the Commonwealth Public Works Committee examining the problems, and they will shortly be submitting a report to us. 
The Prime Minister knew that the Committee had not yet submitted a report. I think the suggestion was made that the 
Prime Minister might not be aware of this, but in this statement the Prime Minister said: 
. they will shortly be submitting a report to us. And I also got the Minister for the Navy himself who became directly involved, and we have decided in the last few days, without actually moving to a final decision, to increase the size of the coastline that could be used from 7 to 10 miles out of the total of 14 miles. And we've also decided to increase the acreage that could be used by civilians under the control of the Navy from 1,250 acres to 1,800 acres. In other words, we've taken another step forward, and I believe that this will meet with a great deal of satisfaction from the people of Perth. 
The effect of this statement is, of course, to pre-empt the decision of the Public Works Committee, and the Prime Minister in the same release has indicated that he is quite aware that this is the wrong thing to do. 
Let me establish the truth of what I am saying. Reported in the same paper is an account of his comment about the Randall Committee. He was asked to express some views about this matter. In regard to the Randall Committee, which is concerned with woo] marketing, he said this: 
I believe it would be wrong if, having asked the committee to meet and it has spent  a  lot of time and  a  prodigious amount of effort we were to turn round and foreclose on any of the options open to the committee. 
What an incredible thing! The Prime Minister is prepared to pre-empt so far as the Public Works Committee, which has also engaged in a prodigious amount of effort, is concerned, and is able, to use his words, to turn round and foreclose on the options of the Public Works Committee; but in the same breath he said that he would not be prepared to do that in regard to the Randall Committee. Who are we in this Parliament? It is only a committee of the Parliament that he is prepared to preempt. 
Of course, as the honourable member for Wilmot said, one could draw no other conclusion than that it was sheer politics because the Prime Minister had learned of the concern of the people of Western Australia about this matter. 
I do not have much time to talk about this matter, but I want to let the Parliament know what would be the conse quences of this kind of action if other people were to take it. I refer to the Public Works Committee Act 1969, which says this about evidence given in private to the Public Works Committee: 
Where evidence is taken by the Committee in private otherwise than at the request of a witness, a person (including a member) shall not, without the authority of the Committee under the next succeeding sub-section, disclose or publish the whole or a part of that evidence. 
The Committee may, in its discretion, disclose or publish or, by writing under the hand of the  Chairman,  authorise the disclosure or publication of, evidence taken in private before the Committee, but this sub-section does not operate so as to affect the necessity for the consent of a witness under sub-section (4.) of this section. 
Nothing in this section prohibits - 
the disclosure of evidence by Sectional Committee to the Committee; 
the disclosure or publication of evidence that has already been lawfully published; or 
the disclosure or publication by a person of a matter of which he has become aware otherwise than by, reason, directly or indirectly, of the giving of evidence before the Committee. 
In other words, the Act says that anyone who discloses evidence given in private to the Public Works Committee is committing an offence. Do honourable members know what the penalty for this offence can be? If anyone other than the Prime Minister of Australia committed such an offence the penalty could be a fine of $400 or imprisonment for 12 months. The fact of the matter is that the Prime Minister of this country has committed an offence which could attract that penalty. I am not suggesting that the Prime Minister should be sent before the Privileges Committee of the House; I am not suggesting that he should be fined $400 or that he should be sent to prison for a year not at all. However, I believe that it is important to emphasise this very important consideration for the benefit of all parliamentarians, including the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  who obviously has transgressed, in some degree, in the same manner as the Prime Minister. I think that the Minister for the Navy had better have a look at the Press report to which I have referred, because it contains an implication that his Department also was involved in the disclosure of information. 
I hope that the Prime Minister has learned his lesson. The Prime Minister said that he hoped to avoid making any mistakes before the next election. He has made a very serious mistake in treading in such an indelicate way in regard to this matter. If any Committee member had made this faux pas or mistake, he obviously would have been censured by the Public Works Committee. The Public Works Committee is not a mere sycophant bunch to act as a rubber stamp and to acquiesce with the Prime Minister. It is there to do an earnest job; it is not there just to toe the Fine and to show its preparedness to engage in a facade of democracy. If this Parliament is to delegate serious work to a committee which can examine all the evidence on the matter and bring down a useful and reliable report, we must ensure in the future that the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Navy and every other parliamentarian come to understand the independent nature of the work to be undertaken. So, I express concern that the Prime Minister has transgressed in this way. I hope that he will give an explanation, if not an apology, to the Public Works Committee and to the Parliament for the manner in which he has violated the great and important traditions of the Public Works Committee. 
Like the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  I am pleased that this new ward and paramedical building are to be constructed. The only evidence to which I wish to refer is that of a very important departmental witness who indicated under questioning that the time might not be far distant when the concept of repatriation hospitals as we understand them will not be the best concept to follow in that field. In Hobart the situation is different because of the limitations of the regional hospital in Tasmania. However, I suggest particularly to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  that the evidence given by that departmental representative is very much in keeping with the view of many honourable members on both sides of the chamber. When further repatriation hospitals are contemplated the Minister might well have a good look at the advisability of incorporating them into the regional hospital situation. 
All I want to say on this matter is that I think it is regrettable that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  did not give notice of his intention to raise this matter and I hope it will not happen in the future. Honourable members are disadvantaged if they do not have an indication of such matters coming before the House because, in many cases, it is necessary for them to obtain papers, as well as information on the subject. 
It is necessary for me to remind the House that we are discussing the Social Services Bill (No. 3). Whilst the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  gave us interesting but sometimes misleading information about immigration, he did not get very close to the Bill. I intend to be more precise. But let me say to him at the outset that migrants in Australia are not offended with the role of the Australian Labor Party or of the Opposition in this Parliament in the migration programme because they recognise that there probably would never have been an immigration programme had it not been initiated by this Party. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has given information about the departure of migrants which must present itself as a very worrying problem to every honourable member. When something like 22,000 migrants who came to Australia under assisted passages have returned home within 2 years, there are good reasons why we should look around for the causes. I do not know about the association which the Minister for Immigration might have with the various migrant groups, but I receive very considerable correspondence from many of these organisations indicating their concern about many aspects of Australian life and their desire that those aspects might be improved. Foremost among the points of agitation is the contention that the social welfare system in Australia is relatively inferior to the systems in other parts of the world. I hold in my hand a letter dated 30th March 1972 from the Federation of Netherlands Societies Ltd to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  It is a long letter in which the Federation refers to the inadequacy of social services and says: 
We know from our own observation that this inadequacy causes feelings of insecurity in the minds of immigrants from the Netherlands, often leading to a decision to return to their country of origin, where the returnees find  a  system of social services, that is much further developed, that keeps in step with the rising cost of living and that knows no means test. 
I am not sure but 1 will give the Minister a list of the countries that do have portable pensions without the trappings, the hang-ups and the inhibiting prohibitions imposed by this Government. I have referred to the Federation of Netherlands Societies Ltd of which there are many branches around Australia. Dutch people have come to Australia in large numbers. There was no reply to the Federation's letter to the Prime Minister. When I inquired by way of question placed on the parliamentary notice paper as to the reason, the Prime Minister said that neither he nor the department of Immigration had the address of the Federation of Netherlands Societies Ltd. Every honourable member on this side of the House, by virtue of the intensive contact he has had with that Federation and other migrant groups, would know not only the secretary's address but also the address of some members of the Federation. It is a reflection on the Government that the Prime Minister is so indifferent. 
This Social Services Bill is bereft of substance and bewildering in its objectivity. Its stated purpose is to facilitate the continuation of the payment of pensions and other benefits to certain persons after they cease to be resident in Australia. Let me put in sharp relief .the contrasting attitude of the 2 parties. The Liberal and Country Party side of the House says: 'We will provide for the portability of pensions only where we can get reciprocal agreements with other countries'. The Labor Party says: Australian citizens shall not cease to receive pensions because of residence abroad'. In taking that view we are in common in our stance with many other countries. This Bill will not achieve the end which the Government attributes to it. When this debate is concluded and the Bill receives the assent of the Senate and of the Governor-General and passes into the statute book, not one citizen will benefit in any way at all. If the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is sitting at the table, disagrees with me I would like him to indicate his disagreement because I will soon prove that he is incorrect in his assumptions. No-one will benefit when this Bill is passed - that is the first fact to be acknowledged. 
The mere sanctioning of this legislation will in no way compensate for this Government's dilatory approach to the longstanding need to provide for portability of Australian pensions. All this Bill purports to do is enable the Minister for Social Services to enter into agreements with other countries about the portability of pensions. It purports to do it, but in fact it cannot achieve that. Whether these agreements will, in fact, be entered into will depend on the acceptability or otherwise of the conditions which Australia and any prospective participating country may require. For that matter, the Minister has made the frank and incredible admission that the Bill is not necessary , at all. In his second reading speech he made that confession in these terms: 
It would have been possible, of course, to carry out the Government's intention to make pensions payable abroad by agreements made by regulation under the provisions of section 137 of the existing Social Services Act. 
The Minister went on to indicate that the same result could have been achieved by regulation rather than Act of Parliament, but he thought that this process would be inappropriate. Why would it be inappropriate? It seems to me that it would be inappropriate for the simple reason that the Government wanted to engage in a window dressing process in this period preceding the election campaign to give the migrants around Australia and those Australians who may be considering living abroad the idea that the Government at last was doing something positive about this question. It is inappropriate simply because the Leader of the Opposition goaded the Government into some course of action by the introduction of a private member's Bill some weeks ago. 
Let us examine the Government's record in respect of the negotiation of reciprocal agreements. Australia concluded a reciprocal agreement on social security with the United Kingdom on 8th June 1953, and the agreement commenced to operate in 1954. The negotiations commenced 19 years ago. There have been 2 amendments since- one is 1958 and the second in 1962, 10 years ago. Little of consequence, apart from the agreement with New Zealand, has been achieved since then. The Minister says that he has been engaged in negotiations with Italy since May 1967. It is 5 years since those negotiations were initiated and still there has been no progress report. With Yugoslavia, negotiations commenced in July 1967, nearly 5 years ago; with Malta, in January 1968, nearly 4 years ago; with Germany, in May 1968, 4 years ago and with Turkey, in March 1970, over 2 years ago. It would have been helpful if the Minister, in his second reading speech, had indicated the likelihood of concluding some of those agreements, but he made no such mention. 
Before the Parliament goes into recess he wants to herald out to the nation the vague idea that something is in progress, but he will not give the House or the country sufficient details. Obviously these negotiations will drag on. No agreements have been negotiated with any prospective participating country and some time may elapse before they ever will be. In fact it is both possible and likely that no further results will accrue in the limited lifetime of this Parliament and Government. None of the Minister's bleating alibis can condone the McMahon Government's failure and his lack of success and initiative in giving effect to this universally acclaimed reform. This Bill is not only a death bed repentance on the part of this Government but, I believe, it is also a hoax - a blatant attempt to whitewash the years of neglect that have characterised the Government's mishandling and non-handling of this issue. The issue is very simple. It is the need to provide for the portability of pensions. It can be achieved by the stroke of the Minister's 'Eversharp' and it is no more complicated than that. The Labor Party acknowledged this a long while ago. In fact, in 1965 - 7 years ago - the Australian Labor Party formally took a decision on this matter and made its commitment at its 1965 Federal Conference in these terms: 
That Australian citizens shall not cease to receive pensions because of residence abroad. 
That is the Labor Party's unambiguous, unequivocal commitment and if, after this year's elections, there is a change of government that is the uncluttered and positive result that will accrue. It is as plain and straightforward as that. Had the Government not prevailed in the interim since 1965 when that decision was taken, the principle would have been given effect to long ago - 7 years ago. But in any case Labor will do so after the next elections. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that this matter went to Cabinet - this indecisive, procrastinating Cabinet - 3 years ago when an interdepartmental committee was appointed to examine it. One can hardly feel that Cabinet was excited about the whole matter - about the implementive needs of this great principle - when 3 years ago a decision was taken to look at it. The interdepartmental committee deliberated on the basic principle for 2 long years and then submitted its secret report to Cabinet 6 months ago. The sequel to this long wait is what we have now in the form of this Social Services Bill (No. 3) which does not offer anything tangible at all but which obviously is designed to mislead the migrants in particular and those Australians who may choose to live overseas in their retirement. 
The Minister, with characteristic impetuosity, has brought this unnecessary Bill to the Parliament with the announcement that he has written letters to embassies about the matter. I should like to see copies of those letters. I doubt whether any of them are competent or substantial. It would be interesting to see them tabled because it is quite likely that a superficial job is being done even at this time. The Minister can soon disabuse me on this matter by making available some details of his negotiations. The whole sorry story, the whole historical cavalcade of events, makes a laughing stock of any sincerity which the Government claims about its concern for the welfare of our migrant community whose desires and interests have been denied. Everything the Minister said in his second reading speech points to a tendency to envelope any arrangement which Australia may make with other countries about the portability of pensions with petty, pinchpenny and pedantic quibbles. 
In fact the Government clearly has set out to get everything it can on the cheap. The Minister has made it clear that a condition of any agreement will be that the participating country will be required to make its own pension available to those former residents living in Australia; otherwise we assume that there will be no agree ment at all. Insistence on that requirement will imperil the chance of any agreement with many countries. Clearly the net result will be that some migrants may come to enjoy the right of portability to the country to which they want to go while others, whose countries do not co-operate, will be denied it. So we will have this divisive characteristic injected into our social service scheme. 
It is apparent that to minimise expenditure on social services - to cut the cost - New Australians who establish pension eligibility by age, invalidity or widowhood and who meet residential qualifications will then run the rigours of the means test. The Leader of the Opposition has asked about the problems in that regard. They will first have to show that they have gained any pension to which they may have an entitlement in their homeland as this would bear on their Australian entitlement under the provisions of the means test. For that matter, the means test will trouble, haunt and plague the New Australian pensioner whether he chooses to live in Australia or in his homeland. If he receives a part pension from his homeland, his Australian pension will vary with every variation of the rate of pension paid overseas.  To  administer the scheme the Commonwealth Department of Social Services necessarily will introduce new internal and overseas appendages to that part of the bureaucracy which constantly sends out questionnaires and otherwise probes and pries into the pensioner's private income and assets. All of this is aggravated by the Minister's insistence that countries can be regarded as participants only if they agree to extend their pension benefit to former nationals now in Australia. I believe that many countries will baulk at such requirements. 
I remind the House of the very fundamental declaration of human rights which, in article 13, says that everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and return to his country. Article 22 states: 
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security . . . 
But the fact is that migrants who leave Australia, who have earned their pensions here, cannot have social security under the present arrangements. My colleague, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  has referred to the contentions made by the United Council of Immigrants. He read out some of the extracts of the submission which that Council has made to many members of this House. I ask whether any of these contentions are unreasonable. The Council says that pensions are the right and the property of elderly people. Does anyone disagree with that? I certainly hope not. The Council contends that the payment of pensions should not be limited to only certain countries. Does anyone say that payments should be limited according to the country in which people live? I take it that silence is acquiescence. The Council also says that pensioners should be free to take their pensions to whichever country they like. Is that an undesirable principle? 
I remind honourable members that when we talk of the United Council of Immigrants, the Council whose policy has been embraced today completely and unambiguously by the Australian Labor Party, we are speaking of the Central Council of Croatian Associations in Australia, the Italian Welfare Centre Co., the Netherlands Society of Sydney, the Association of Australian Slovaks, the Swiss Club of New South Wales, the Ukrainian Society of New South Wales, the Federal Council of Polish Associations, the Estonian Society in Sydney, the Hungarian Council of New South Wales, the Maltese Community Council of New South Wales, the Latvian community in Sydney, the Lithuanian community in Sydney and the Australian Romanian Association. Today the Leader of the Opposition spoke for the many thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of the members of those organisations, and I also speak for them at this time. I want to indicate our very grave dissatisfaction with the attitude taken by the Government. The clear fact of the matter is that many of these persons have contributed substantially to their pension entitlement. 
I will not have time to look at the taxation scales in this regard, but if one takes, for example, a single taxpayer - and I have a chart which would enable me to give many examples - one finds that the average weekly earnings of a single taxpayer is $84.70 a week. At the present rate of taxation he would be paying $13.15 a week or $683 a year in taxation. Over the 20 years in which such a person would be required to be resident in Australia to establish eligibility under the scheme proposed by the Minister, he would pay in direct taxation no less than $13,676. My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  would quickly say: 'Indirect tax in volume at least equals direct tax'. If this were the case such a person would pay approximately $27,000 or $28,000 in taxation in those 20 years. This Government is saying that if such a person has cause to return to his country of origin he will be deprived of his right to a pension. 
Let me refer to a case in my own electorate which came to my attention only last week. It involves a Czechoslovakian person who has been in Australia for about 30 years. He had the misfortune to lose his married daughter who was a widow with several children in Czechoslovakia. Now he has to return to that country to look after the children. He is receiving a pension in Australia, but if he returns to Czechoslovakia, where he would have no pension entitlement, this Government intends to deprive him of his means of sustenance. He will have no pension at all in those circumstances. 
The issue is quite clear. The House has to make up its mind whether it will be caught up in all these unnecessary trappings or whether it will have regard to the practical fact and make pensions available to people who earn them, regardless of where they live. Included in the countries which already pay such pensions are Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Holland, Italy, Malta, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Sweden in certain circumstances. If those countries can do it, Australia can do it. We have been dragging the chain for too long. If the Government is not prepared to do it, I believe that the people ought to take the earliest possible opportunity to remove it from trie treasury bench. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the First Report of the Price Committee appointed by the Minister for Education to inquire into various aspects of higher education in New South Wales which recommended in August 1961 that land should be acquired in the southern and western parts of the Sydney Metropolitan area for university development. 
Has the Commonwealth yet received any request for assistance from the Government of New South Wales to enable suitable university sites to be acquired as recommended; if so, what are the details. 
Is the Commonwealth Government prepared to assist with the implementation of the Committee's recommendation 9.27 that land should be acquired in the western and southern parts of the metropolitan area for univerisity developments that are in the more distant future but are bound in due course to become urgent needs. 
asked the Prime Minis  ter,  upon notice: 
Has any Commonwealth commitment been made to the World Trade Centre proposed to be established at Sydney; if so, what are the details. 
What was the essence of his reply to the Premier of New South Wales, who recently wrote to him seeking a declaration of support for the concept of a World Trade Centre in Sydney and  a  commitment of nominated Commonwealth Departments to occupation of it. 
Can he say in which countries such World Trade Centres are established. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government or any other government entered into any arrangement or negotiation aimed at allowing the Concorde SST aircraft to fly supersonic or otherwise over its territory; if so, what are the details. 
Has. any consideration been given to flight path corridors for the Concorde over Australian territories. 
If so, (a) what routes are involved, (b) what is the proposed width of flight paths and (c) what is the anticipated effect of the sonic booms. 
Can the Concorde utilise existing Australian airports for landing and take-offs; if so, which airports are intended to be used. 
What additional airports would be needed if the Concorde were to be used in Australia. 
Is the Australian Academy of Science preparing a report on matters pertaining to the use of the Concorde over Australian territories. 
If so, (a) on whose request is the report being prepared, (b) what matters are to be the subject of the report and (c) when will the report be available. 
Is the CSIRO researching the possible effects of the Concorde on the Australian environment; if so, what is the nature of the research being undertaken. 
What information is available about injurious effects and compensation paid in respect of the Concorde's first series of supersonic tests over Cornwall. 
Can he say which countries have banned Concorde supersonic flights over their territories. 
Who is the manufacturer of the Concorde. 
What is the expected capital cost of each aircraft and associated spare-parts. 
If the government has already given or if it is considering giving approval for Concorde flights over its territories, have the obligations of the government and aircraft operators been firmly established in respect of providing just compensation for damage or injury to people, property, animals and the environment; if so, what are these obligations. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his Department will occupy 200 acres of land in Broadmeadows previously occupied by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
Is it also a fact that this land will be used for housing Army personnel as an alternative to using houses constructed by the Housing Commission of Victoria. 
If so, how many houses are to be constructed and when will construction commence. 
if the land is not to-be used for this purpose, will he state the purpose for which it will be used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Who were the members of the medical team which the Minister announced on 1st December 1971 would visit Collarenebri to carry out basic tests to establish the Vitamin- C content of diets in Aboriginal children and its absorption by them 
Did this team co-operate with the Collarenebri medical practitioner  Dr A.  Kalokerinos whose studies on Vitamin C deficiencies among Aboriginal children have extended over a long period. 
What is the effect of the medical teams findings and when will they be made public. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What has been the result of discussions held with uranium mining companies with the object of facilitating the promotion by the companies of the most effective marketing of uranium produced in Australia. 
Have these Government/industry discussions included consideration of the publicly declared intention of one uranium mining company to secure overseas uranium markets by disposing of Australian equity in its uranium interests to overseas companies and authorities. 
What is the attitude of the Government to this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many officers of the Australian Armed Forces have been trained in chemical and biological warfare. 
Is Australia capable of defending itself against chemical and biological warfare. 
Do the Armed Forces have direct access to chemical or biological materials which could be used offensively in war; if so, what are these materials. 
What are the forms of chemical and biological warfare in respect of which Australian personnel have received training in defensive techniques. 
Which countries are known to be capable of waging chemical and biological warfare and what materials and techniques are used in each case. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
In view of the recent one week's closure of the Nowra Paper Mills by Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven Pty Ltd and the serious adverse effects that this development has had on the economy in the Shoalhaven region will urgent consideration be given to the provision of assistance or protection to this industry. 
Has any consideration been given by the Government to the request that the Australian paper industry should be assisted by Government Departments being required to use only Australian made paper. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Atomic Energy Commission continuing its efforts to secure a buffer zone around the Lucas Heights Atomic Research Establishment. 
If so, (a) what are the precise details of submissions made by the Commission to present and previous Planning Authorities of New South Wales, (b) why is a buffer zone required, (c) what is the area of the proposed buffer zone, (d) what arrangements are being made to compensate property owners affected by the proposed buffer zone, (e) in what possible circumstances could the wellbeing of people, property, flora and fauna and the environment within the area of the proposed buffer zone be at risk as a consequence of activities conducted by the Commission at the Lucas Heights Atomic Research Establishment, and (f) were assurances given by Professor Baxter and the late General Stevens to the Sutherland Shire Council during 1954 that there could be no deleterious effects from the Lucas Heights Atomic Research Establishment, approval for which was being sought at that time. 
I concede that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has touched on a point of extreme and high idealism. I am staggered that there is no response from honourable members on the other side of the House and that there is no connotation from the appeal that he puts. He has said that there may not be any electoral appeal in it. I doubt what he says because I think that people do care. I - think they care about the potential of the children of this country. I care, and I am staggered that nobody has been inspired by the speech df the honourable member tonight or, indeed, the speech he made this afternoon when he gave a package deal account of the Australian Labor Party's objectives in regard to education and placed considerable emphasis on the pre-school. I am staggered that all this has not caused some response. Is there no emotion left? Is there no real fervent feeling about the potential of the people in this country and the denied opportunities? It staggers and sickens me, and it leaves me a little bereft of hope. I know that 90 per cent of the professional and management workers in this country are able to send their children to preschool and that 60 per cent of skilled workers and 50 per cent of semi-skilled workers are able to do so. But only about 3 per cent of unskilled workers have a chance to send their children off to the educational opportunities in the pre-school area. These are children with great capacity. Yet this Government has been lying doggo. I am not here to talk about this Government or the Opposition. I am here to talk about people about whom I feel strongly in respect of this matter. This Bill has been before the Parliament in one form or another since 1968. In that year $2.5m was allocated to organisations concerned with pre-school teacher training in the various States. The purpose of that allocation was to facilitate the construction and equipment of pre-school teachers colleges. One of the essential tangibles in the whole objectivity about which we have been talking is people who can run the pre-school education system. Three years later, in 1971, that fairly pathetic allocation had not been expended. The period was extended for yet another year to the end of December 1972. Now that prescribed period of expenditure is to be extended for another year. That is why this Bill was introduced. In terms of the Budget, it is not a large sum of money but it is the thing that symbolises this Parliament's concern about pre-school education. There is nothing else in the whole spectrum apart from a Budget provision of $5m to which I shall refer. 
Now, 5 years have passed since this scheme was first introduced at a time when it was intended to expend $2.5m and make it available to the States for use by some private organisations for pre-school teacher training purposes. In Victoria the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College has run into some difficulty in securing land for its project and in obtaining local government approval. In New South Wales the Sydney Day Nursery Association also has struck difficulty in the acquisition of land for the project. In my view the delay is completely inexcusable. Serious consequences are going to accrue in regard to the training of urgently needed pre-school teachers. Thousands of children are going to be denied pre-school education opportunities as a result of this delay. In New South Wales the enrolment capacity of the nursery school pre-school college was to be increased from 99 to 270 students for training in pre-school teaching. In Victoria the enrolment capacity of the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College was to be increased from 193 to 450. Together those 2 training colleges were to increase the annual output of trained pre-school personnel by 358. That is to say that each year the delay is costing pre-school education 358 teachers. 
That does not sound a lot in the spectrum of anything but if each of those 358 teachers were to teach just 20 children some 7,160 additional children could enjoy the privileges and the benefits of pre-school education. 
What is this Government's attitude to the bottlenecks that have occurred? In my view these private training colleges must be regarded as agents for the Commonwealth in that they fulfil a public function in a field which the Commonwealth substantially has abdicated or otherwise neglected. I am referring to this whole area of teaching training for pre-school education. If local government authorities and State authorities are dilatory in facilitating the projects approved, they must be confronted even by this Commonwealth Government. The Minister for Education and Science  ("Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has failed to achieve the results demanded to meet the desperate shortage of pre-school teachers. He has declined to give any account of any effort made by him to expedite the projects. Presumably he has made no effort in respect of these matters. 
What is the crisis in pre-school education? There have been many surveys. A recent survey showed that over 149,000 children under 6 years of age, children of working mothers, are being cared for by relatives and other people. The eligible preschool population actually at pre-school centres has increased only marginally in recent years. In 1967 12.1 per cent of the pre-school population attended pre-school, and in 1970 the figure had increased to 14.8 per cent, that is, 14.8 per cent of 500,000 children who comprise the eligible pre-school population. 
I want the House for a moment to look at the glaring differentiation in the incidence of children attending pre-school as a percentage of the eligible population for the year 1970. In New South Wales 9 per cent of eligible children were in pre-school, in Western Australia 13 per cent, in Tasmania 13 per cent, in Queensland 13 per cent, in South Australia 17 per cent, in Victoria 29 per cent, in the Northern Territory 35 per cent and in the Australian Capital Territory 52 per cent. Do not disparage the idea that there ought to be 52 per cent of eligible children attending preschool. I say to people in my electorate: 'If you want to live in the full blossom of whatever Australia has to offer, go and live in either the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. Those are the privileged parts of Australia.' The same sort of privilege ought to prevail throughout Australia. If pre-school education is needed for children in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory, it is needed for children throughout the length and breadth of this land. 
The inequitable disparity in levels of expenditure on pre-school education between the States and the Australian Capital Territory reflects on the capacity and the willingness of successive governments to face up to this great and pressing social issue. The Australian Capital Territory expends $4.30 per head on pre-school education, and I ask honourable members to remember that figure. The comparison with the States is 93c per head in Victoria, 60c in South Australia, 35c in Western Australia, 15c in Queensland and 4.7c in New South Wales. The best ideal, objective or standard that we have is expenditure of $4.30 per head in the Australian Capital Territory. The Tasmanian figures are not available, but I know that the Tasmanian 
Government, and indeed recent governments in that State, have set out to incorporate pre-school training into the State education system. New South Wales has 252,000 children in the 2 to 5 years age group, and only 17,000 of them are attending pre-school. 
Clearly this legislation cannot equalise opportunity. Clearly this Bill cannot, on its own, achieve its stated purpose, which is to double the capacity to train pre-school teachers in Australia. The objective, though laudable, cannot be obtained just by adding rooms to training colleges. Recurrent teaching costs, equipment costs, students allowances and many other factors are involved. What is the job at hand? Not every mother in Australia wants her child to go off to pre-school, yet clearly there are other mothers, and some fathers, who have no choice, for economic reasons, than to go to employment and leave young children in the care of others or alone. 
What of the latch-key children who can be found in their thousands in the great cities who are virtually locked away in the sanctuary of the television room by devoted but necessarily employed parents? We do not relish the realisation of the fact that there are such parents who have to find this kind of secure sanctuary for their children. What will be the product of this deprivation in later years? How does inadequacy of care, love, guidance, training and sense of security affect a growing child? What will be the consequences to the child and the community in the future? 
In 1970 the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  released results of a survey. He indicated that there are in the work force 200,000 mothers with 250,000 children of pre-school age. Only 7 per cent of that quarter of a million children were accommodated in competent kindergarten or child care centres. Heaven knows what happened to the rest. So far, there has been nothing to show that this Government really cares. The work of Fitzgerald and Crosher entitled Pre-School Education of Australia', published by the Australian Council for Education Research, claims that in a recent survey there were 63,000 women not of the work force with one or more children under 6 years of age who stated that they would go into the work force if suitable child care facilities were available. What we are talking about is a phenomenon of our age. Not every woman wishes to go into the work force and to leave her children behind. But there are a number who, for economic reasons, must do so, whilst on the other hand there are those who feel that their life will not be fulfilled until they manifest their talents in areas outside the kitchen or outside the household. These are the realities of life as the effects of higher education come to bear. We must face up to those realities. 
The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  is often eulogised because of his identification of this problem. He made a commitment on behalf of his Government on 4th November 1970 during the Senate election campaign. I have his speech here in full, but I will summarise the important parts of it. He said: 
I now announce a new objective to which we give very high priority. That is, the establishment of child care centres for children of pre-school age. 
He said that in the decade 1960-70 the number of married women in the work force almost doubled, increasing from 9.3 per cent to 18.3 per cent. He claimed that: 
Studies made by the Department of Labour and National Service show that existing facilities are woefully inadequate. 
He said further: 
We wish to ensure that the children of these women have every opportunity for the fullest development in both the emotional and physical sense. 
I was warmed by these remarks. I would not care whether they were said on an election platform by a Labor man, a Liberal man or any other man. He said that, and he committed this Government. 
That was John Gorton. The scheme then propounded has been jettisoned - recklessly jettisoned, I think, in terms of proper priority considerations - with all the ill effects and the social consequences of that action. This was a priority commitment for the fulfilment of pre-school needs. Employers and local government authorities were to co-operate to meet the critical need to care for the children of working mothers. That is a fair summary of what the right honourable gentleman said at that time. 
I remember that the Minister for Labour and National Service, now sitting opposite me, responded to my invitation to give an account of the Government's standing on this matter. Not so long ago he told me that because of economic reasons this proposal had gone by the board. Ministers for Health, Ministers for Education and Science and Ministers for Labour and National Service have been involved in these matters. That does not matter. The fact is that the Government has not faced up to what John Gorton said was a desirable thing. 
The Minister says that it is in this year's Budget. I intend to come to that. What does the Budget say? Let me tell the honourable gentlemen. But let me preface my remarks by saying that a very great likeness exists between what the present Budget proposes and what the right honourable member for Higgins said some years ago when he made this commitment on behalf of the Government. But the fact is that what is said in the present Budget is not said in the same inspirational terms as those in which the original proposal was put forward. Let me quote what is said on this matter in the present Budget. I think it is nonsense; I think it is crap. I do not think the Government has any serious intention. The extent of the Government's declared intention is infinitesimal and it is incapable of confronting the problem of deprived children. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said in his Budget speech: 
We  propose subsidies to enable these centres to offer reduced fees for low income families and others in special need. Unmatched capital grants will be made available direct to approved nonprofit organisations for the provision, and equipping of such centres and staff subsidies will be provided to encourage the employment of certain appropriately qualified staff. The estimated cost of the scheme this year is $5m 
I do not know whether anybody has looked at what $5m is worth in this context. Obviously, this is complete and utter nonsense. It should be the right of this substantial number of children from underprivileged families to break some even ground, to overcome the inequalities that exist in this country at the present time. The Government should be pouring money into the scheme. It should be saying: 'We are going to extend the state education system to accommodate the pre-school needs of Australia.' But the Government is offering S5m. Where will that go? You could spend it in my electorate - in just one electorate. It costs $25,000 to build these centres to look after 25 children. Two hundred of them at $25,000 each, in terms of capital cost, would blow this miserable sum right out of the sky. 
We have to talk about equipment, teacher training, allowances for the teachers, wages while they are learning, wages while they are teaching and so on. The Government is tinkering with the problem. This is one of the areas that has been ignored and neglected by the Government. I hope it will not be ignored or neglected by the Government that is going to follow. At least I am gratified by the fact that my Party, whilst conceding that it does not know everything about this matter, has said that it will establish a pre-schools commission which will look at the matter factually and bring the priorities to bear. I hope that we will have the chance to manifest our sincerity in this regard. 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Which prison incarcerates  Mr P.  A. Fox who was sentenced on 3rd March 1972 to 18 months imprisonment for failing to report for National Service training. 
When was  Mr Fox  imprisoned and when will he be released. 
Is  Mr Fox  receiving any training during imprisonment; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to Question No. 5227 that a person who had attained the age of 21 years prior to commencing to receive approved training would not be a 'handicapped child' within the meaning of the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act and would therefore not come within the provisions, of that Act (Hansard, 18th April 1972, page 1761). 
If so, will he advise who is expected to look after such persons. 
I second the motion and in doing so would comment that if at this late stage of proceedings additional work is to be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works it may become necessary for the Parliament to take a sympathetic view of the need of the Committee to meet concurrently with the sittings of the Parliament. 
One of the very satisfying features of this proposal is that a great regional centre in New South Wales is to have a complex of Commonwealth offices. I think this is a very unusual feature. On other occasions I have had the opportunity of seeing this kind of development in parts of Australia other than New South Wales. I have often thought that there has been a lack of planning, coordination and site utilisation in the construction of buildings for Commonwealth instrumentalities. In the vast bulk of regions in New South Wales, Commonwealth services are to be found scattered all over the place. That is the case in my electorate of Hughes, where the Commonwealth has put the Department of Labour and National Service at Caringbah, the Department of Social Services at Sutherland and so on. 
I have seen in Shepparton a very aesthetic, contemporary and sensibly designed complex that accommodates all the services, and in some places it has been possible to make provision for the Federal member's office to be in proximity to other Commonwealth services. I am very delighted to see this happening in Bathurst. I take the opportunity to congratulate the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  whose agitation of such long standing is bearing fruit. I believe that it is as the result of his efforts to some considerable degree that this innovation is coming to Bathurst. I know that one member of the Public Works Committee was wondering why such a complex and such a modern post office had not been built in his own area. I suppose the answer is in the personable and consistent representative capacity of the honourable member for Macquarie. 
Another very satisfying feature of this proposal is that the new building is to replace another building which is of very considerable vintage. The Supreme Court complex, which at present accommodates the post office facility at Bathurst, was built in 1880. I am gratified to know that the Australian National Trust has taken an interest in this building and placed it in category A. That is the category of buildings whose preservation is regarded as essential to the heritage of the State. I am gratified to learn that in fact the building is to be preserved. If anyone ever gets into the part of New South Wales west of the Blue Mountains he should take the opportunity to see the magnificent architecture that is to be preserved. 
As the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  as Minister representing the Minister for Works, has said, a very effective Australian Post Office complex is to be located in the proposed building. It is designed to improve the very substandard facilities which operate at the present time. The Committee was concerned to note that the Commonwealth instrumentalities at present located in Bathurst were in most unsatisfactory quarters, and we are very pleased to see that provision is now being made for accommodation of the Taxation Office, the Electoral Office and the Departments of Social Services, Health, Housing and Labour and National Service and that the honourable member for Macquarie is to receive - deservedly, I would say - accommodation in this very fine complex. I am pleased to be associated with the work and I hope that the Parliament approves it. 
I support the motion. The proposed Tiwi and Wanguri schools in the Darwin area of the Northern Territory represent a new concept in education. It seems to me that if the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  had wanted to convey to the Parliament the significance of this proposal he would have referred specially to this fact. But he has been good enough to indicate his approval of my suggestion that there should be incorporated in Hansard 6 paragraphs of the evidence given by  Mr A.  D. Jones, Assistant Director, Department of Works, Northern Territory. I seek leave to incorporate that evidence in Hansard. 
I do not want to say very much about this matter because I think that the extension of the Canberra Airport system is very desirable. It involves the closure of a roadway and the provision of a deviation as the north-south 17/35 runway is extended by 2,000 ft to the south. I think it is important to say that concern was expressed by the Queanbeyan Council and by representatives of the Australian Labour Party in the Australian Capital Territory about the possible adverse effect of aircraft noise resulting from the extension of the runway. The runway heads generally out to the extremity of Queanbeyan, which is one of the fastest growing cities in New South Wales. I think that at present it has a population of about 17,000. When that figure is added to Canberra's population it gives a figure in the vicinity of 150,000. Obviously aircraft noise is a very sensitive matter when the extension of the Canberra Airport system is being dealt with. Very serious account has to be taken of these matters. 
Without going into any detail in this regard, but having regard to the fact that the runway extension will enable the frequent use of the runway by Boeing 727s, 707s and 747s, we have been able to extract from the Department of Civil Aviation assurances to the effect that the development which is taking place in the Queanbeyan area will not be significantly affected, if it is affected at all, by the noise that results from the extension of the runway. We have been told that Queanbeyan will expand to the southwest; that is its urban expansion direction. It is possible for aircraft to approach Queanbeyan in such a way that they will be  2k  miles from Queanbeyan when they are at an altitude of about 3,000 ft. Probably when they descend to a lower level, when noise will become a significant factor, they will be flying on a flight path which will not have a direct bearing on the people of Queanbeyan. Generally speaking the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works was placated regarding the earlier anxieties it had about this matter. I certainly hope that the assurance given by the departments will prove to be effective assurances and that there will not be serious inconvenience so far as aircraft noise is concerned in the developing area of Queanbeyan and in parts of Canberra. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I should like to associate this side of the House with this motion. The Commonwealth Film Unit at Lindfield, New South Wales, has a very great bearing on many facets of life in Australia. This authority has in one way or another, and under different names, been operating for some 50 years. It has a very great record of achievement to its credit. The present resources of the Unit are inadequate because they are scattered over the Sydney area in such a way as to make the effective and efficient operation of this instrumentally most difficult. For example, whereas the main establishment is at Lindfield there is at Chatswood some distance away, a film laboratory, what is called the 'stock shop library', a film storage facility, a mechanical workshop and the print check theatre. These sections occupy about 5,000 sq ft and they operate, as I indicated in an isolated way some distance from the main establishment at Lindfield. 
We are told that the Film Unit produced about 334 reels of film last year, including 260 reels of film in foreign languages. The functions of this authority are to provide foreign language films; to supply film material to private producers; and to supply films, commercially and other wise, to State film centres, overseas missions and State education departments. The organisation has grown very considerably. I have been told that production of this establishment has increased by 230 per cent since 1964 and that the staff has increased by only 160 per cent since 1961. The increase in both the production output and the staff serves to indicate to some extent, I believe, the need for additional premises and additional facilities. Having regard to the important work which this organisation does towards advertising Australia, at home and abroad, bringing to Australians and other people an understanding of many facets of our life, 1 believe that the proposed expenditure of$1. 7m on studio extensions is well justified and is bound to bring very desirable results. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  is very hard to reply to because, frankly, I was unable to discern the theme of his remarks. However, at least we should concede that it must be a great break for the students of the University of Melbourne that he was elected to this Parliament. I cannot say that we have derived any great knowledge from his speech this afternoon. I was interested to hear his comments about and criticism of members of the Opposition who dare to talk about political matters. He seems to be intent on taking politics out of politics. He was critical of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for discussing the debasement of the Australian currency and the fact that all sorts of inflationary trends have resulted. Similarly, he seems to have abdicated in his own speech, as has the Government generally, from any proper application to such matters as overseas investment in Australia, inflation, rising prices, housing and health problems, or what have you. For that matter the attitude of the Government seems to be typified by that of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who shows reluctance even to discuss politics now. He certainly has a quivering and quaking fear to accept the invitation of the Leader of the Opposition to appear on television and to discuss the issues of the day. Where is the country going when the Prime Minister has shown such an incapacity to stand up to public examination? 
The honourable member for Chisholm talked about the processes which take place in the Australian Labor Party. He seemed to be anxious to criticise the fact that on this side of the Parliament we pursue a democratic process, I take it that he contends that it is undesirable that on this side of the Parliament we follow the traditional practice of deciding our Party's policy at the weekly Party meetings. In that way no member of the Labor Party can just pluck policy from the sky. The Labor Party elects its leaders. Ministers and shadow Ministers. The antithesis of that action is that which apparently the honourable member for Chisholm stands for and upholds. 
lt is a demagogic process. Whether it is  Sir Frank  Packer or the Prime Minister whose dictums the honourable member is prepared to accept I do not know, but honourable members on this side of the Parliament uphold the democratic processes. We are disappointed that a man from an academic area who has influenced so many young Australians about political matters has not shown the same inclination. That is enough about the honourable member for Chisholm. I have wasted enough time already. 
Exactly 2 weeks ago the Budget burst like a bombshell over this country with a great cloud of expectation that it would trigger off a snap election to retrieve the flagging fortunes of the McMahon Government. Somehow this cunningly conceived strategy has misfired. Despite the overdue reforms and unexpected handouts which the Budget contains, the general reaction around the country is of complacent cynicism. Where is the early election? If the Budget was filled with all that electrifying expectation, why is it that the Government has abandoned its strategy to go to the people, taking advantage of the situation and leaving the Opposition wallowing in the wake of the Budget? We have reached the stage, as 1 said a moment ago, that instead of there being a snap election the Prime Minister is no longer prepared to go on television and discuss with his counterpart of the Opposition the political issues of the day. 
The people are tired of political expediency and double talk, of ministerial syndromes of mediocrity. They are tired of the blatant annual exploitation of the Commonwealth Budget and its casual preoccupation with matters of great principle which are so obviously motivated by fear of political annihilation. These issues should be regarded as great issues because of their priority rating rather than through political expediency and their potential appeal at the polls. This is a hit and miss Budget. Like the Government's policy over 23 years of application it has brought inequality, mass unemployment and lost opportunity to Australia and many Australians. 
The most effective overall measurement of these matters lies in the gross national product. In 4 successive years the rate of growth of the gross national product, which includes the cost of all goods and services in Australia, has fallen from a peak of 8.4 per cent in 1968-69, to 5.8 per cent in 1969-70, 4.1 per cent in 1970-71, and 3.1 per cent in 1971-72. There has been a steady decline which is even more disappointing when the results are compared with the target of 6 per cent that we had for the year. Turning to the gross farm product, 3 years ago the value of our rural production was $151m higher than it was in the financial year just concluded. So many other tests can be applied. The growth in average employment has slowed significantly. After rising to 3i per cent in 1970-71 it slipped to H per cent in 1971- 72, a decline of 2 per cent in the growth of average employment. 
I turn now to the growth of wages and salaries. Last year our total growth in wages and salaries ran to 12 per cent. Even that figure represented a decline in the growth rate of 3 per cent, as against the 15 per cent achieved in the previous year. The figures for average earnings illustrate the point. Two years ago average earnings increased by 11 per cent. Last year the growth rate slowed down to 10 per cent. With increased productivity we had a right to expect a significant upturn in earnings - a substantial upturn - but instead there is a decline of one per cent. 
I invite honourable members to direct their attention to the area of private gross fixed capital expenditure. This is the area upon which the Government heaped so much of its hopes and expectations, but a study of the statement of national income and expenditure shows yet another disappointing result. Private gross fixed capital expenditure which rose by $603m or 12 per cent 2 years ago rose by only $222m or 4 per cent over the last financial year. The year's results are very disappointing although the Government had so much in its favour. For example, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  conceded some of the great advantages which the Government enjoyed over the last financial year. In the Budget Speech, the Treasurer said: 
In many past years, Budget policy has been inhibited by balance of payments considerations. This is not so this year. Booming exports and  a  record level of capital inflow have contributed to a large surplus in the balance of payments. 
How can one reconcile booming exports, a record level of capital inflow and a large balance of payments surplus with the depressing circumstances referred to elsewhere in this Budget? Despite all these things that the Government had running for it, we have a very bad result. 
Let me quote some of the Treasurer's own admissions of the Government's failure to discharge its obligations to the community. Firstly, in his Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
. the economy has proved hard to budge from its too-subdued growth path. 
In admission No. 2 he said: 
Costs and prices rose rapidly and there was a marked set-back to business confidence. 
In admission No. 3 the Treasurer said: 
Personal borrowing for the purchase of consumer durables feil off and savings ran high. 
In admission No. 4 he stated: 
Business investment, too, has been flagging. 
Admission No. 5 was: 
The consumer price index increased by 7 per cent in the year to the last December quarter. 
Admission No. 6 was:   . . the increasing bite of the progressive personal income tax scale has combined wilh rising prices to restrict severely growth in the real purchasing power of take-home pay. 
In admission No. 7 the Treasurer said: 
At the end of July, 2 per cent of the workforce . . . was registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The eighth admission made by the Treasurer was: 
Over the past 3 years . . . wage and price rises . . . have been the highest since the Korean war boom. The resulting heightening of inflationary expectations has been only too evident. 
These are 8 extracts from the Treasurer's Budget Speech admitting failures at various levels of the control of the country's affairs. This is the record of the Government, as admitted by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. In summary, the Government's record is of rising costs and prices; a sluggish economy; excessive taxes; declining family purchasing power; serious inflationary trends; declining business confidence and the highest rate of unemployment for a decade, with some 100,000 Australians out of work. It is a depressing and a degrading record, reflected in the stinted growth and progress of the country and the community. 
Now we have a new Budget which, if it ran its race for a full year, would still be lacking in the achievements we all desire. Let me offer some Labor alternatives to the McMahon Government's Budget. First, I want to say something about inflation, because overseas investment is pouring into this country at something like $ 1,000m a year and already there is a great stranglehold by overseas entrepreneurs over many of our industries. For example, overseas companies control 58 per cent of the total value of mining production in Australia today. They control 71 per cent of the total value of mineral processing production Rising prices and inflation have been identified as a problem but otherwise have been ignored in the context of the Budget. If the price line is not held, the modest tax remissions and the paltry pension increases will be swallowed up virtually overnight. Let me remind the House of the rate of increase in the consumer price index since 1968-69. In that year, the consumer price index increased by 2.6 per cent; in 1969-70, it increased by 3.2 per cent; in 1970-71, it increased by 4.8 per cent; and, in 1971-72 which was the financial year prior to the Budget now under review, the consumer price index increased by 6.8 per cent. 
Labor's commitment to establish a prices justification tribunal would do much to arrest this threat to living standards. Overseas investment has been pouring into Australia at such a pace that serious inflationary consequences have accrued. The progressive takeover of Australian industries and resources has been going on for so long that we have increased the repatriation overseas of total profits from 25 per cent to 33J per cent in a period of 6 years. Economists have predicted that if the present rate continues we will be repatriating half of our profit overseas before the end of the present decade. Although we have been steadfastly selling our country off for some time we are now suffering the added indignity of selling it at bargain basement prices. A Labor government would act to prevent these foreign entrepreneurs from exploiting the present demeaned value of the Australian dollar by limiting investment to approved areas and preventing the takeover of additional industries. 
How can anything in this Budget reduce the developing prices and inequalities in our choked cities and deteriorating country towns? Why has the financial crisis of the States and local government authorities been so neglected and almost totally ignored? On the very day that the Budget was introduced the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  wrote to me advising that he had rejected the call by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for an annual allocation of 5 per cent of income tax for essential priority regional purposes. It has now been established, condoned and endorsed by this Budget that without a change of government there will never be an effective working partnership between the 3 arms of government, namely, Federal, State and local. While Australian shire and municipal councils languish from financial malnutrition their counterparts in the United States and Canada receive support from their national governments for the many essential services that they have to provide. 
Will the prohibitive cost of land and housing be really eased in any effective way by giving $750 under the home savings grant scheme to the limited number of young couples who can save $2,250? In the week following the presentation of the Budget my office was virtually swamped with complaints from disillusioned young couples who will be denied the benefit of the Home Savings Grant Act because high land and building costs will result in their homes exceeding the valuation limitation. Others will be deprived of benefit because the legislation is not to be made retrospective. If this scheme is to be retained the Government should remove altogether the ceiling on valuations. Better still in my view, the Government should stop relating the grant to savings. It should be prepared to make an allocation, without any strings attached, to young people for the purchase of their home. 
In any case, can this sort of sugar-coated panacea substitute for an effective confrontation with the need to reduce crippling housing interest rates? The average price of a bouse and land in Sydney is now in excess of 20,000. A person can get accommodation from a bank or a building society for this money but, of course, the first hurdle is to raise the $5,000 deposit. A $15,000 loan can be obtained from a permanent building society at a repayment of about $106 a month. This Government's high interest policy results in such a loan being repaid over 25 years at a cost of some $16,805 in interest. 
Where is the recognition in this Budget of the fact that some 90,000 families have joined the long and frustrating queue for homes from State housing authorities? What is the real dilemma of these families? The first, of course, is that they do not have the savings to meet the deposit on a home of their own. If this Government were serious about this matter it could find ways of overcoming this difficulty. It is possible to contrive means to encourage lending authorities to provide 100 per cent loans. The second problem encountered by these families is the repayment rates, and it is possible to extend these repayment rates over a longer period in order to meet the paying capacity of the families concerned. Yet this Government allows the queue to grow longer and longer. The worst place for people to go to in 1972 if they have a housing need is to a State housing authority, because al) they can be told is that there is no chance of their getting a house for many long years. For example, pensioners in New South Wales who, in the case of males, need to be 65 years of age before they can receive a pension, are told that they must wait 6 years before a house can be made available. 
Where is the national plan to rejuvenate our country centres or to create new decentralised living areas along upgraded traffic corridors where leased land can be offered at low cost and where properly related employment opportunities will be available? Why should there be no cynicism about a Budget which ignores the fact that millions of our people live in unsewered areas? In my electorate alone, which incorporates the southern suburbs of Sydney and the northern suburbs of Wollongong, about 46.000 properties rated for water are without sewerage. The various sewerage authorities which represent the major capital cities of Aus tralia met recently and ascertained that they would need something like $2,500m in additional funds to overcome the critical problem confronting them. Almost all of them, including the Sydney Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board which has $7 13m outstanding in capital debts, are liquidating previous debts to the extent of more than 50 per cent of their present income. Millions of people, even in our capital and large provincial cities, are without sewerage at this time. Yet we have a Budget which fails to recognise that problem or any of the other great priority problems which concern the State governments, local governments and their instrumentalities. In so many ways this Government is unreal. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many persons are now imprisoned on charges under the National Service Act. 
What is the name of each person so imprisoned and what are the details of each conviction and sentence. 
What is the estimated number of persons who have evaded registration for National Service. 
In respect of the various categories of charges, against how many persons are charges pending under the National Service Act. 
Like the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and the honouable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  I believe that this is an important matter and that the Parliament should not hesitate about referring it for quick and, I hope, positive inquiry and determination by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works because that Committee has had a fair bit to do with the problems of Tennant Creek and has been able to identify the fact that people there live in disadvantaged circumstances. As a member of that Committee, even at this late stage preceding the elections, I would be prepared to make some sacrifice and go to Tennant Creek to help the residents with the difficulties they encounter. Recently the Public Works Committee was asked to resolve the sewerage problem in that area and this was accomplished with satisfaction. Nevertheless I think it is important that the Parliament should recognise that some politics is being played in respect of the whole process of referring matters to the Public Works Committee. There is a great flurry of such referrals. The  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Wakefied  (Mr Kelly),  who spoke a few moments ago, said some very sensible and accurate things, but he could have gone further and said more. He could have said, for example, that this year - election year - the Committee looks like undertaking about twice as many inquiries as have ever been undertaken in the history of the Public Works Committee. 
The Committee is tearing around the countryside at frantic speed. It is not simply a matter of the members of the Committee being disadvantaged. Sometimes the public are disadvantaged as well because there should be proper notice and sufficient time to enable the democratic process to run its full race and to go the full course. Sufficient notice should be given to enable people to consult with one another - for groups to discuss these matters and prepare evidence to submit to the Committee. However the Committee is going at such a rate that people are hardly given time to prepare properly. Next Monday morning the Committee sets off on a week of examinations and inquiries. In my case, I leave Sydney at 7 o'clock on Monday morning and fly to Papua New Guinea - to Lae and Port Moresby - and return via Canungra, Amberley and Townsville arriving back in Sydney on Friday, This is a valuable week in this pre-election period as I am sure you,  Mr Speaker,  will recognise. 
Other matters are yet to be referred to the Committee, including telephone exchanges and, I think, a chancery in Papua New Guinea. So there will be this mad rush, and it just is not good enough. I want to cause the Parliament to know that there is an obvious playing of politics here. I can understand the 'honourable member for the Northern Territory being enthusiastic, because every time the Committee goes to the Northern Territory he sets out very effectively, I might say, to give the people of the Northern Territory the impression that it is his representations which have resulted in these works being undertaken. This has happened in the past and, of course, he would like the Committee to go back to the Northern Territory as many times as possible before the election. But we should not be exploiting the Public Works Committee or this process for miserable election purposes. 
It is important to draw the conclusion that this mad rush that is now evident on the part of the Government to squeeze all this work through the Public Works Committee process demonstrates the incapacity of the Government to properly organise and harness the release of work to be undertaken by various contractors. The Department of Works obviously must come under undesirable pressure as a result of the spasmodic flow of work. Additionally when one takes a place like the Northern Territory and throws all the work into the programme at one time pressure is put on contractors and probably on prices at the expense of the taxpayers. All this is being done for electoral purposes and it is not good enough. It certainly is not fair to members of the Parliament who are involved with the Public Works Committee to be rushing projects through at the expense of the obligations they have to their electorates. I know that some members of the Committee are not coming to 
Papua New Guinea next week. Last week some members were not present at Committee inquiries and I venture to say- 
I will,  Mr Speaker.  Regarding this proposed referral I confidently predict that it will be impossible for a number of members of the Committee to participate in the inquiry. Obviously this is undesirable but the reason is that so many inquiries are coming forward in such a short period of time. So I protest. I protest also about the fact that this motion was not on the notice paper for today. The Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  knows of my personal interest in democratising the work of the Public Works Committee and I should have liked to have known that this matter was to be referred to the Committee. I hope that he does not make this kind of mistake in the future. It would be a good thing if the Committee were not required to undertake much more work before the elections because it will be skimmed over. It will be done in a relatively inefficient way and many people will be deprived of the chance to give the considered evidence which the Committee invariably likes to have. 
1 want to deal specifically with the matter which is sought to be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and there are a couple of quick points I wish to make. The first is that it is becoming unreasonable to have such a large number of important matters referred to the Committee at this late stage in the Life of this Parliament. Perhaps the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who is at the table could indicate to the Parliament when the election date will be. Will the Committee have time to deal with the matter? If we knew when the election will be we could determine whether this referral is a reasonable proposition. If the election will be in three or four weeks the Committee will not be able to do justice to this important inquiry which concerns a Supreme Court building; it is not something to be trifled with. It is one of the most important matters in the land. The proposal concerns the place where the Supreme Court will sit in Alice Springs. It will also be the Post Office, a communications building and Commonwealth offices. It is a vital matter. Will the Committee have time to conduct a hearing at Alice Springs? Perhaps the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Wakefield, could indicate whether this is in the planned future movements of the 
Committee. I doubt very strongly, from a consideration of the time which will be available to members of the Committee to move around between now and the election day, whether the Committee will be able to go to Alice Springs and conduct a public inquiry. Perhaps the honourable member for Wakefield could indicate by nodding or shaking his head whether this would be possible. Could he give an assurance that the public, who would ordinarily have a chance to give evidence, will have the opportunity to do so at Alice Springs? 
I am not talking about inspections. This is the kind of thing- 
The matter that concerns me most of all is whether this project should be referred to the Public Works Committee. Would honourable members on the Government side be anxious to have it referred to the Public Works Committee if the Committee could not go about its work in the proper and traditional way? That is the question that has to be put to the Parliament before it makes a determination on this matter. It has always been the practice of the Committee that it inspects the site of the proposed work, then calls public, evidence which is heard in the area where the construction is to take place. If those requirements cannot be fulfilled, it may well be unreasonable to refer the project to the Committee at this stage. The Government is showing signs of wanting to be the last of the big spenders for some reason or other and I would hate it to do anything, for an ulterior motive, that would sacrifice the high traditions that have characterised the Public Works Committee for many years. 
These 2 Bills are of interest to the House and, doubtless, to a number of people. The Opposition, as has been indicated by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  is not at variance with the Bills and is anxious to ensure that whatever benefits flow from the legislation will not be impeded. The legislation is described as the Aged Persons Hostels Bill 1972 and the Aged Persons Homes Bill 1972. Generally the Aged Persons Hostel Bill is designed to grant to organisations which are eligible under the Aged Persons Homes Act, special assistance. It is intended that the Commonwealth will meet the cost of 2 hospital beds for every one unsubsidised bed operated by the organisation or one bed for 2 where the accommodation was previously subsidised on a dollar-for-dollar basis. Under the other Bill it is intended to double the present rate of subsidy to eligible organisations which provide personal care services for the aged in hostel accommodation. That, of course, will increase the existing subsidy from $5 a week to $10 a week. 
As I have mentioned, the Opposition does not quibble with these proposals. Nevertheless, it is apparent that once again we have evidence of the piecemeal approach being taken to this total question. We feel that it is unfortunate that the Government has never properly set out to formulate adequate guidelines or a blue-print to enable the progressive overtaking of the enormous range of deficiencies that prevail in this area. We are pleased to know that a study is being made of poverty and the inability of pensioners, aged people and others to own their own homes. Professor Henderson is probably already on the job or just about to settle down to it. But it is obvious that no one person is able to fulfil all the needs that are so apparent in investigating the areas of social welfare, housing, health and the like as they bear on the aged pensioner section of our community. 
How much better would it have been if the Government had not expediently plucked the idea for this inquiry out of the air in a pre-election period but had thought about it in a sensible way and decided that there were many aspects which needed proper examination. There should be a complex of expertise conducting the inquiry instead of one person, so that the whole Parliament could come back in 6 months' time or a year's time and be provided with proper guidance about the way in which we should progress in the future. In connection with the Aged Persons Homes Bill, I mention that one is always gratified to see any assistance given to that very fine range of organisations which makes it its business to provide housing for the aged. Nevertheless, there is a lot to show that there are some inadequacies in the present arrangement. Again, the Government is guilty of being ad hoc in its approach to the total question of aged persons housing. I know that in my own State, where there is an enormous housing problem, pensioners represent a substantial number of those who are finding difficulty in securing homes. 
Only the other day I ascertained that of the 43,000 outstanding applications with the New South Wales Housing Commission 54 per cent of the applications received in 1969-70 were from people with incomes below $50 a week. In fact, in the preceding year people earning $50 a week or less accounted for 67.3 per cent of the applications. But here is the point I make: Elderly couples accounted for 16.17 per cent of the applications in 1969-70 and 17.9 per cent in the preceding year. I have correspondence from the New South Wales Housing Commission in relation to aged people wanting housing. Presumably these are people who are unable to gain admittance to an aged persons home, possibly because they have not key money or the starting price. If they cannot get into an aged persons home, where else do they go? They apply for a housing commission home. 
I have had letters from the New South Wales Housing Commission indicating that such applicants can expect to receive accommodation in 5 or 6 years. It is not very encouraging for people who are 65 years of age or more - that is the starting age for a male aged pensioner - to be told at 65 or later that they have to wait some 5 or 6 years for a house. In fact some of these people have received letters from the Secretary of the New South Wales Housing Commission stating: 'We are unable to advise when a house is likely to be made available'. Generally speaking, of course, the problem that we are confronted with today - the inadequacy of the legislation that we are confronted with today - is the inadequacy of the total funds made available for welfare purposes in Australia. I do not want to labour this point at all, but in passing it should be mentioned that lots of people, including active people in the aged persons homes organisations, are gravely concerned that in Australia we are spending 5.5 per cent of our gross national product on social welfare. If that percentage were increased we would be able to overcome this great backlog in the provision of aged persons homes and in the provision of hostel care. In other comparable countries a much greater proportion of the gross national product is devoted to social welfare. I know that the figures have been used before, but we must be unhappy with the position. The European Economic Community countries are expending 15.2 per cent of their gross national product on social welfare. In Scandinavian countries it is 10.9 per cent. 
No wonder our migrants are dissatisfied. They have less security about their future here than was the case in the countries from which they came. Many migrants with whom I have had a personal encounter are quick to tell me that this is why so many of them are leaving to go back to their home countries. I think that about one-third of our migrants are returning at the moment. They are obsessed with the uncertainty of their future. They do not know what will happen to them with respect to accommodation. They do not know whether they will have the thousands of dollars necessary to enable them to get into an aged persons home when they retire or to secure hostel accommodation, which is the very essence of one aspect of this legislation. I mention now the percentage of gross national product expended on social welfare by other countries. Canada spends 9.9 per cent; the United Kingdom, 8.8 per cent; Switzerland, 8.2 per cent; New Zealand, 6.6 per cent and Australia, 5.5 per cent. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
In his speech the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  indicated that only a fraction of the aged population of Australia is accommodated under the Aged Persons Homes Act and, of course, this is the case. There is a great deal to be done. The Minister went on to say that, after accounting for those who are provided for in other ways by State authorities and the like, the remainder live in unsatisfactory conditions; that is, they are either living in accommodation of an unsatisfactory standard or paying a rental they are not able to afford. I am pleased to see the Minister's frankness in this regard. I am not sure whether he has overstated or understated the position. 
The Minister said that it is about right. I do not want to quibble, but if that is right it is a serious enough situation. He said that there are as many as 50,000 pensioners with unsatisfactory living conditions. We know that in Australia approximately half of all single pensioners do not own their homes; and I understand that more than 200,000 married pensioners do not own their own homes. It is obvious that a very serious situation prevails. There is a need to spend more money on aged persons bornes and hostel-type accommodation, which is substantially the subject of this legislation. The Minister has indicated that there is a need each year for some 5,000 extra beds, but there is nothing in the proposals before the House at the moment, nothing in this pre-election gesture, which would make any significant impact on that outstanding backlog. 
The Minister said that 5,000 additional beds per annum are required. When one thinks of such a great annual requirement one does not just think of capital cost, though it is significant enough, or the kind of resources that this Government has been ploughing into the alleviation of the problem over previous years. There are other factors. In fact it has been indicated that for every 1,000 beds that are required 500 staff need to be obtained. The Minister broke that figure up in the following way: 170 trained nurses; 200 nursing aides and 130 domestics. We are told that 2,500 staff are needed each year to meet this yearly 5,000-bed demand. Where is the anticipation and planning directed towards the fulfil ment of this staff deficiency. It is obvious that there is a lot left to be desired and that this legislation will hardly scratch the surface of the problem. It is fair to say that the Government has abdicated its responsibility for the frail aged people. It has relegated this responsibility to private enterprise. We see from time to time in the Press headlines such as 'geriatric boom'. We learn that the nursing home area of private enterprise is going on to the stock exchange, that the rate of profit is up to 19 per cent and that people are being required to pay between $50 and $100 a week for nursing home care, with no capacity to gain admittance to a home run by a public authority. Obviously there is a great need for us to stimulate the endeavour to increase public accommodation for aged persons. In a way we are just tinkering with the problem here. 
Among the proposals before the House is one which intends to increase the subsidy from $5 to $10 a week for the care of people over 80 years of age in aged persons homes and the like. There are a number of matters to be looked at here. We are told that there are 7,000 people over 80 years of age already accommodated in some 360 homes. Their problem is serious enough, but why do we have to isolate these people on an age basis? If one is frail and incapable of caring for oneself in a nursing home or any other sort of accommodation, it does not matter what one's agc is. If one is 60 years of age and incapable of caring for oneself or to go into one of these establishments, one would place the same burden on an aged persons home or nursing home as a person 80 years of age would. This is just the tip of the iceberg that this Government is tinkering with in this legislation. I know of situations in my own electorate - the Sutherland area of Sydney - where there are elderly people incapable of looking after themselves in self-contained or hostel-type accommodation who are bedridden and under 80 years of age. Just how many people are there who are not being accommodated under this legislation. What surveys are being carried out? We should ascertain the extent to which we are making an impact on the problem of people over 80 years of age by increasing the subsidy from $5 to $10. What does this really do? What is the cost of caring for these people? What is the extent of the deficit left to the people, organisations, churches and the like who run these establishments? 
It is not just the capital cost of providing that care which is important. It is also a matter of meeting the cost of providing nurses and domestics to look after these people. And it is not just a matter of providing, as the Minister said, an adequate amount for persons 80 years of age and over, because there is still this great area that remains substantially unattended and neglected. The fact of the matter is that we have had this piecemeal approach to the care and accommodation of aged people generally, and as a result there is a disparity between the level of care being provided around Australia. The Minister would readily acknowledge that, because we on this side of the House have extracted from him from time to time information along those lines. We are able to say, for example, that in New South Wales the proportion of people of pensionable age in accommodation provided under the Act is 2.26 per cent; in Victoria it is 2.88 per cent; in Queensland 2.47 per cent; in South Australia 6.73 per cent; in Western Australia 4.73 per cent; in Tasmania 4.29 per cent; in the Australian Capital Territory 3.28 per cent and in the Northern Territory 1.71 per cent. Why is it that we have such a high level of accommodation provided for such people in South Australia  -  6.73 per cent - and such a low level  -  1.7 per cent - in the Northern Territory? Obviously this shows an ad hoc approach. We leave it to the entrepreneuring capacity of churches and organisations, when the obvious thing to do is approach the total problem on a regional basis so that we can ascertain the real needs. If it is a question of priorities we should be allocating funds proportionally throughout Australia. 
The other criticism that can be made of the situation that prevails, and that will prevail even after this legislation is passed, concerns the insufficient emphasis placed on the need to keep these people in their own homes or to. keep them in the care of relatives. It is not always a good thing to cause people to receive institutional care. There has been insufficient concentration and emphasis on this particular problem under the Government's administration over 23 years and during the period that the Minister has been in office. We need to give local government and other regional authorities the capacity to provide some services - physiotherapy, nursing care, visiting nursing aides, home medical, occupational therapy and social worker services - so that people who would like to stay in their own homes would have the back-up paramedical and social facilities available to them to enable them to stay there. This would release resources being made available under the Aged Persons Homes Act and other relative legislation and these could be concentrated on providing for people who have a genuine need for institutional care. The Minister for Social Services has acknowledged this. He said that many people go into such establishments who ought not to go there and I believe that there will have to be a more composite and package deal approach to this problem which, up to the present, has been approached in a piecemeal, fragmentary and ad hoc way. 
I will not keep the House very long on this matter but I think that one aspect of it justifies some special mention. The construction of this post office and telephone exchange at Shepparton is not a large undertaking. As the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  indicated, it is to cost $1.4m. The proposed work is for a new post office and telecommunications centre. This complex will serve a great region - the Shepparton region in Victoria. The matter which gave the Public Works Committee some concern - and I think some conclusions ought to be drawn for our benefit in future - is that in the view of many people the construction of the proposed works will involve the destruction of a building of historical significance. 
The post office and the court house which this proposal intends to destroy was constructed in 1883. Many people who know the Shepparton area regard the existing post office and court house as a landmark in that region. It is used on post cards and the like. A number of people have indicated in various ways their opposition to the destruction of this complex. Such people include representatives from the Country Women's Association of Victoria and the Shepparton Historic Society. 
The court house was acquired from the State of Victoria in 1870 and the post office was transferred to the Commonwealth at the time of federation. I can assure honourable members who have never seen this building that it is magnificent and in my view it is a shame that it is to go. We were told that in Victoria alone the Post Office holds some 29 buildings which have been classified in some way by the National Trust. This particular building has such a classification. Earlier it was classified by the National Trust as being of sufficient interest to be recorded. Subsequently it was reclassified. The current classification of the building is that its preservation is desirable. This contention worried a number of members of the Committee who have learnt, through their involvement in public works matters, to be non-vandalistic and to have some regard for the aesthetic factors in life: 
There are in Victoria a number of outstanding buildings among the 29 post offices which have a very high classification. I hope that no government will ever want to destroy some of these buildings which are part of our national heritage. Some of the post office buildings that are of significant historical value are located at Sale, Koroit and Maribyrnong. Some investigation was made into the possibility of preserving the post office building at Shepparton. Speaking from memory 1 think that an additional $490,000 would be involved if that objective were pursued. 
The point I want to make is that this desirable business of classifying post offices of historical significance should not be entrusted to the Post Office. In my view, the process of determining whether or not post office buildings should undergo a modernising programme or remain as they are should be accepted by the Government as a governmental responsibility. I should like to suggest that the Ministry for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts - this Ministry which is very ambiguous in many respects and which from the environmental standpoint hardly seems to have come down to any positive line of objectivity - should start to accept some responsibility in this regard. I believe that the Government should look at all such post offices in Australia - and they are 150 in number - which have a National Trust classification. The Government should determine a real sense of priority about them and decide whether any of them are to be subjected to a modernisation programme. 
I do not know whether the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is in the House at the moment, has consciously applied himself to this matter and whether in fact he concedes that it ought to be the responsibility and the prerogative of his Department to liaise with the Post Office in this case and indeed with many other Departments where there is a responsibility to determine whether an historical building, such as the Customs House in Sydney, is to remain. 
One of the unfortunate facts, if the Minister has associated himself with this problem, is that no evidence was given to the Committee about the Government's interest in retaining this building, or if in fact it has any interest in retaining any building at all. It is quite impossible for members of the Public Works Committee to see the relative historical merit of buildings because we could never see all the post offices in a State or, for that matter, in Australia. I venture to say, in all reality, that it would not be possible to retain all the buildings which have some historical value and significance. It would be of very great assistance to the Committee, the Parliament, and the community at large if a scale of priorities was determined by the Minister. I strongly commend the idea that he should apply himself to working towards that end. 
It is of some interest that although the building is to be removed it will be removed in such a way as to facilitate its rehabilitation or reconstruction by the Shepparton City Council on an international centre. Of course, a lot of historical significance will go and some damage will occur in the removal, but at least it is some solution. I would be greatly encouraged if the Minister would make some comment as to the suggestion I have made regarding the desirability of his Department preparing a scale of priorities for the preservation of historical post offices. 
No-one can quibble about the need to replace the old buildings which Kormilda College has occupied for some years. I think the College was established in 1967 but the buildings were established some 30 years ago. They have been used as an Army hospital, a transit centre for Qantas Airways Limited, and they have a warehouse effect about them rather than that of a modern educational institution. The buildings which will replace this complex of shacks are of very suitable design. The concept of this College actually emanated from a report of the Watts Gallagher Committee of 1962. I think that the work done by that Committee probably served in some measure to update the thinking which took place 10 years ago about the concept of providing residential colleges for Aboriginal people. 
There are approximately 6,000 Aboriginal children in schools in the Northern Territory, and the likelihood is that many of them will leave their home towns and come to one of the 3 residential colleges being provided in the Northern Territory region. The Dhupuma College at Gove was established this year. Kormilda College is operating in these old fashioned buildings and, of course, the new Yirara College is being established at Alice Springs. It will open in 1973 and accommodate some 300 students. With the 610 students able to be accommodated at Kormilda, there will be at any one time approximately 700 or 800 children in these residential colleges. Obviously this is a matter which has to be thought about very carefully because it involves taking the children of this race of people in substantial numbers away from their tribes and villages. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  spoke of the beneficial efforts on children who attend Kormilda College. Doubtless there have been some very beneficial effects, but there is obviously a need for the people in the departments who are responsible for these children to have a very good, hard look at the situation. My colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  touched on this matter earlier when he referred to the research worker, Miss Sommerlad, who spent, I think, about a year there in 1970. She revealed a number of deficiences and some very serious problems which need attending to and which need to be accommodated in some measure in the design and utilisation of the complex of buildings which we are now discussing. For example, she was able to establish that in 1970, the year she was there, the dropout rate was 43 per cent. She established that only 17 per cent of the students who enrolled in 1968 or 1969 and who could have completed a post primary course - that is a 3-year course - in fact did so. Of the students who did not drop out, 83 per cent had no further education when they returned to their home communities. In total, more than 63 per cent of all students dropped out before completing a minimum of 2 years. Of all enrolments in the first term of 1970, 43 per cent dropped out during the year. 
All of us here would have liked to have seen a much better result. We cannot blame the result on the Aboriginal children, many of whom go to these colleges with great anticipation, great hopes . and great enthusiasm, but something happens to them when they get there. Without over-emphasising this point, Miss Sommerlad referred to the incidence of deviant behaviour. I am not putting emphasis here on the interpretation of deviant behaviour as we usually understand it. The fact of the matter is that there was a very large incidence of deviant behaviour involving running away from school, being absent without permission, breaches of discipline, and some of the other more undesirable things. Miss Sommerlad said that some 23 per cent of the students surveyed engaged in 4 or more types of deviant behaviour. More than half of the students have been absent from the College without approval on at least 2 occasions, and a considerable number engaged in promiscuous behaviour. This sort of thing happens these days in this permissive society among all races and in all age groups. However, the incidence among these students might be more alarming than we would like to see. 
She mentioned also that there were psychosomatic symptoms among many children. She found 10 different types of psychosomatic stress. Only 2 students failed to exhibit any symptoms at all. Twenty-five per cent showed at least 4 symptoms. They involved maladjustment, identity confusion, suffering from nightmares and symptoms of high sickness. Basically it seems that these symptoms often emanated from a change of life style involving emotional stresses which these young people were not equipped to cope with. This young lady, whose investigations have been the subject of an expression of appreciation by the Northern Territory Administration, went on to make some proposals as to how these problems could be overcome. 1 want to emphasise 3 or 4 of them. 
We have ascertained that insufficient Aboriginal staff was employed at Kormilda. In an institution where there is a great problem about finding employment for graduates one would feel that there would be much more application to this matter of facilitating the employment of Aboriginal people on the staff of an Aboriginal students college. Miss Sommerlad believes that there should be greater parental involvement at the College. This is not always easy because the children come from far-off places, but it is important to ensure that facilities for parents are provided and for them to be encouraged to come to the College from time to time and participate in the community life. She believes that there should be greater emphasis in demonstrations and practice of Aboriginal culture. The honourable member for the Northern Territory referred to this. There is some recognition of the need for these things but in the view of Miss Sommerlad and others who have a hard application to Aboriginal affairs insufficient is done. She believes that the children are left to their own resources to too great an extent after school hours and that more staff should be available to service these periods. She strongly advocated that there should be a school counsellor and a vocational guidance officer. 

 Her criticism included the contention that there is very little interaction between the Aboriginal people and the white people in the local community. She said that there is very little encouragement to Aboriginal identity; there is little chance to practice skills, decision making and to engage in business accepting responsibility. There were others who made critical remarks. My colleague, the honourable member for Hunter mentioned the very forthright evidence given by the Director of the YMCA, 

 Mr McKenzie. He was not carried away with the Kormilda idea at all. In fact he had this to say to the Committee: 
It is another act in the continuing Aboriginal tragedy. Very little consultation has been solicited from Aboriginal people; even the Administration hand-picked Advisory Council seems to have been ignored. 
He said that there is no question that there was insufficient consultation with the Aboriginal people. In fact after the Committee had virtually completed its inquiry it decided to re-open it because at that stage not one Aboriginal person had given evidence, nor had any representatives of the missions from which many Aboriginal children come. So we decided to re-open the inquiry to encourage the representatives of these missions and the representatives of Aboriginal organisations to come before the Committee. Surprisingly there was little response.  Mr Bill  Ryan, who is an Aboriginal Welfare Officer, came along. He was the person of Aboriginal descent who stood out as a witness, and he had the most forthright ideas about the whole Kormilda concept. He disparaged it and indicated that he himself had come from an entirely different situation. 
I believe that we have to look hard at the alternative which he put forward. During the war years he was moved from the Northern Territory down to an area in my electorate known as Otford where a number of Aboriginal children came, and he said that the desirable thing was to get them out of this segregated atmosphere and maybe have a residential place for them to live but otherwise to send them into community schools where they could obtain an effective association with the white community.  Mr McKenzie  of the YMCA questioned the Kormilda College concept and he said that there was insufficient emphasis on physical education, sex education, recreation and counselling. He said: 
The socio-cultural, socio-economic and sociointegration/segregation aspects of Aboriginal life have been ignored. 
This whole inquiry has not been without controversy by any means. I believe that the time has come for something more expert than the Public Works Committee to conduct an objective inquiry into the form of Aboriginal education to be under taken in the Northern Territory. It obviously should be the prerogative of skilled educationalists. 
Views along these lines were expressed by a number of witnesses including  Mr Wesley  Smith, who was referred to by one of my colleagues. Generally speaking I would acknowledge that the dedicated people who comprise the staff of the College have been working under great difficulties. There were some who would like to have given the Committee the benefit of their experience, and I will mention this aspect of the matter. There seems to me to be in the Welfare Division in the Northern Territory a pervading intimidatory atmosphere the like of which is not known in any other government department that I know of in Australia. We have had several instances during the course of various Committee inquiries where some people have expressed the view that if they gave evidence before the Committee, giving the benefit of their experience and their involvement in Aboriginal affairs, they could be the subject of prejudice in their jobs. 
This is a Public Service community; so much of the Northern Territory is like that. In Alice Springs, in Darwin and in other parts of the Territory the very wellinformed people are public servants. Sometimes they are not in the department which is the subject of the inquiry but they have useful information to give. One is the  deputy  headmaster of this school. One or two people who have have very worthwhile experience in the Kormilda institution wanted to speak but it was clear that they had received advice that they could put their jobs in jeopardy if they gave evidence. This kind of intimidatory atmosphere has to be swept away if we are to get the benefit of the views of these people who have applied themselves to these problems for so long, lt is all right to go through the motions of bringing some Aboriginal people along who have been trained in the school and say to them: 'What do you think about this place?' Invariably they say: 'It is a good place'. If we say: 'Can you think of duy way to improve it', they say: 'No'. Obviously many of these people lack the experience to identify potential and the alternatives and too often the Administration uses this technique to justify its proposals. 
It is far more desirable that they should bring in the experienced people who are educationalists or welfare officers and expose all this business to sensible examination. The best interests of the Aboriginal people are going to be served only if we face up to the facts. It is not a matter of embarrassing governments. It is not a matter of identifying undesirable things to the discredit of anybody. The positive approach is to tap all these sources and informed views so that there will be a better deal for the Aboriginal people in the future than there has been in the past. 
The Opposition would like to be associated with this project because it recognises the great need for this facility in the Darwin region and it appreciates also the deep interest which has been exercised by the people of Darwin during the several inquiries that have taken place. Life in Darwin is not all beer and skittles. Hazardous conditions are often encountered. Climatic conditions often present problems and difficulties to people. The Opposition feels very strongly that whatever amenities can be given to the people in that region to make their life more tolerable should be given. Of course, all around Australia the people require sewerage, and we are pleased that among those who are getting it is the large number of people in the Darwin area. 
The matter to which the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has referred is significant for a number of reasons. Foremost among them, I think, is the democratic process which has taken place about this matter. The involvement of the people in Darwin in this and many other matters is of very great interest. A community spirit is developing in Darwin of which the rest of Australia can be very proud and from which many parts of Australia can learn a great deal. In this issue the people of Darwin felt primarily that they were not being provided with an adequate sewerage scheme. I think the Minister has made it clear that there have been 3 inquiries into the Darwin sewerage scheme. I understand that when the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works completed its first inquiry in 1969 it had the impression that there was a fair degree of satisfaction about the proposal, but as further facts became available and were ventilated public disquiet about the matter started to develop. The other significant issue involved in all this, of course, is the developing consciousness about environmental matters in Australia, and it is good to know that in that extreme northern part there is no less sensitivity about such an issue. 
The Darwin sewerage scheme, as the Minister has said, involves pumping stations, gravity and rising mains and a lime precipitation treatment scheme incorporating sludge incineration and disposal of effluent into Ludmilla Creek at a cost of $4.8m. The report that was brought down in May 1969 covered a northern zone scheme and a central zone scheme. In fact the northern zone scheme was completed. The central zone scheme was criticised principally for the deleterious effects which many people thought would result from use of the marine outfall. It was felt there would be a serious health hazard caused by pollution and that there could be long term ecological effects on Darwin Harbour and other waterways in the Darwin region. 
So in August 1971 the matter was referred back to the Public Works Committee. In almost every case, the nonofficial witnesses demonstrated their concern. Many spoke on behalf of organisations. It was interesting to note the conflict which existed. I have no doubt that the experts from the Department of Works had a great deal on their side because they are very well informed people. In fact, one of the leading representatives from the 
Department of Works in respect of sewerage matters holds an extremely high position in international circles. 
Yes,  Mr Jones  is a world authority. He is the vice  president  of an international sewerage engineers organisation. Although he stood his ground, there was dissension on the part of a large number of people in the community. It was decided by the Committee that it was not expedient to proceed with the original proposal and a report was brought down in November 1971. 
In 1972 the matter was referred back to the Committee and the Committee has now decided on another scheme which has been generally outlined by the Minister. It involves the treatment of central zone sewerage in a lime precipitation process plant near Ludmilla Creek although the technique of the lime precipitation process is quite historical and has been used over the centuries, it is not commonly utilised throughout Australia. Generally speaking, the scheme involves the treatment of raw sewage to remove sludge, the carbonation and discharge of effluent into Ludmilla Creek, the incineration of the sludge and the chlorination of the effluent, if necessary. The scheme which is to be implemented will be capable of serving some 40,000 people and, subsequently I think it will serve some 62,000 people. It has the capacity to connect to an area that is now - unpleasantly, I believe - discharging effluent into the Seabreeze outfall and the Frances Bay South outfall. It provides also for the future connection of Doctors Gully which at a later stage will cost about $1.4m. 
The Opposition is very pleased at the approval of this proposal because the people of Darwin have made their strong feelings known on the matter. I congratulate them on finally achieving what they require in the way of an efficient treatment scheme which will retain the magnificent waterways and the ecology of the Darwin region. 
The Homes Savings Grant Bill is principally designed to lift eligible home valuations for those people who apply for homes savings grants from $17,500 to $22,500. It is to lift the grant to $750. I think one of the apparent facts is that this homes savings grant legislation will not do any more in the future than it has in the past towards alleviating the very serious housing situation that prevails in this country. Probably one of the most outstanding sociological problems pervading Australia today, one of the greatest areas of neglect on the part of this Government, is that the Government has allowed housing to reach such a critical stage that throughout the country young people are finding it extremely difficult to secure accommodation. It is not just young people but people generally who are affected. 
We have at this time a record number of outstanding applications to the State housing authorities. Some 93,000 people - more than 40,000 in New South Wales aloneare waiting for homes from housing authorities because they cannot secure homes in the ordinary way. Only last night there was a startling announcement in the Sydney Daily Mirror' that a report by W. D. Scott and Co. estimated that housing costs will soar by 66 per cent by 1980. A 66 per cent increase in 8 years is reliably expected by these consultants, and they go on to say that wages will go up by only 50 per cent. Building costs will rise by 7 per cent to 8 per cent in the next 12 months. I remember that when this legislation was introduced back in 1964 all kinds of predictions were made, and I think many of them have eventuated. Lots of people in the building industry say today that when the homes savings grant scheme was introduced and some people got the $500 grant, the price of land went up for all of them, whether they got it or not. I would not be surprised if the same thing does not happen now. But one thing is certain: There will be continuing rises in costs in the future as there have been in the past. 
It does not matter what statistical document we pick up about housing from the research resources of our Library; it will substantiate that point of view. Since 1967 the housing price and repairs and maintenance index has gone up by 27.6 per cent. That is authoritative information from the research service of our Library. The average amounts of loans insured with the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation have gone up in the 5 years from 1965-66 to 1970-71 by 31.1 per cent. There are so many other figures that one could bring to bear, but I know that a speech incorporating a lot of figures is a hard one to listen to. The War Service Homes Division has provided a table to show that in the last 5 years in respect of New South Wales the average cost of a dwelling house and land has gone up by 34.7 per cent, in Victoria by 26.4 per cent and in Queensland by 40 per cent. These figures are almost unbelievable if people are securing comparable houses. So it goes on. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  points out from time to time, we have reached the stage where people are paying more than double the amount they borrow. He indicated in his speech earlier today that the average price of house and land in Sydney is in the vicinity of $20,000. He went on to point out how a person can secure a loan of $15,000 but his first stumbling block is to find the $5,000 deposit. Not everyone can face up to that. If a person borrows $15,000 over 25 years at 7 per cent he finishes up paying total interest of $16,805. If he takes the loan at  8i  per cent he pays total interest of $21,235. Surely the Government cannot be very pleased with this situation. This homes savings grant scheme is not the panacea of this problem. It is not the antidote for this large scale ailment that is sweeping the country like a malignant disease. lt is a matter of getting at interest rates and all kinds of other things as well. 
The fact of the matter is that this homes savings grant legislation was originally conceived through the motive of political expediency, almost on the hoof during an election. It was born in a state of agonising anomaly, and it has been nurtured and sustained by a series of redressing expediencies and lifesaving injections. I think we are faced with a little bit more of that on this occasion. Since 1964, when this legislation was first introduced, there have been incessant complaints against the restrictive nature of the legislation. Homes savings grants were denied to widows, unmarried persons and persons over 36 years of age. Then there was the imposition of other limitations which affected many thousands of other people. In my view this limitation ran at direct variance with the principle cf encouraging people to save for a home. Many young couples fell foul of the pedantic criteria used to define approved savings and they were refused a home savings grant on such grounds. 
Then the credit unions were adversely affected. Savings in credit unions at first were excluded altogether and the unrelenting hostility which the Government has directed to these bodies caused many credit union members to suffer loss of subsidy. They saved and applied for a loan but they were refused a loan and the Government has since given them no redress for their loss. There is no justice in restrospect for this Government, even though it subsequently came to recognise the folly of its ways. We had great fights in this House and in the Senate from 1964 onwards. Now, after all this pressure, the Government has decided to concede the merit of what the Opposition said at that time. But this has been done too late for thousands of people who will remember the prejudice the Government displayed against them. 
Initially the scheme provided for payment of a maximum home savings grant of $500 on savings of $1,500 or more. It has always been a dubious proposition in terms of principle that a subsidy of $500 should be given to people with a capacity to save $1,500 while less or nothing is given to those who have a smaller or negative saving capacity. 
The Minister for Housing says that I am incorrect. What I am putting to him is that he is prepared to give $750 to people who can save a considerable amount of money and to those who have a negative saving capacity - the people who probably need it more - he is not going to give anything at all. That is the philosophy behind this legislation. I am not going to be distracted in view of the limited time that is available to me. 
In the first year of the scheme there were so many built-in booby traps and pitfalls that 35.283 applications were lodged and only 25,079 were approved. In addition, thousands of others were deterred from applying. In the second year of the scheme's operation 12 per cent of the applications were rejected; in the next year 8 per cent were rejected; in the next year, the figure was 8.2 per cent; in the next year, 12.3 per cent were rejected; and, in the following year, 8.4 per cent of applications were rejected. A study of the 7 annual reports shows a marked consistency in the reason for this high rejection rate. Although the initial valuation limit of $14,000 was raised to $17,500, this statutory valuation limit continues to be the main reason for rejecting applications. In 1970-71 it accounted for 18.7 per cent of those applications rejected. Of course, there were thousands of others who knew they had no chance of receiving a home savings grant because of the valuation limitation. 
I question the philosophy of this legislation. I believe that it is fair to say that it is a means test in reverse. There is a premium placed on affluence and a penalty placed on hardship. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech claimed that the Budget was not designed to improve the chances of the Government at the forthcoming elections. However, it is interesting that the home savings grant scheme was introduced in the Government's policy speech prior to the 1963 elections. That was the first bit of expediency for election purposes. The limit on this value of eligible homes has now been increased 3 times and each time this has been done in an election year. The limit was increased to $15,000 in the Government's 1966 policy speech, it was increased to $17,500 in its 1969 policy speech and, in this pre-election Budget, it is to be increased to $22,500. So it is apparent that the Government has a favourite hobby horse here. 
Yes, it is election bait. The Government is exploiting the unhappy situation that young people all over the countryside are encountering. It is lifting the value of an eligible home, not when it is apparent that it should be lifted but in a period preceding an election campaign. The increase in the value of an eligible home of $5,000 proposed in this Bill is the greatest increase since the commencement of the scheme. Of course, this is the period of the Government's greatest distress from an election point of view. It must be remembered that the increase in costs over the past 3 years meant that most home buyers were unable to qualify for a grant under the existing limit of $17,500 and the new limit will do very little to rectify the situation, as it will allow only a few more people to qualify and with the effluxion of time it will prove useless. How is this limit arrived at? Has the Minister ever been able to provide for the benefit of parliamentarians and the public at large any credo as to what it is that determines this valuation limit on a home which, after all, determines whether people will qualify for a grant or not? What indicators are used to determine the values of homes being built or purchased and, if the Government has any say in the matter, how long is this new valuation limit expected to be in force? I suppose it will be in force until it is again out of date. 
I want to refer to some of the matters which give me concern. I have already mentioned the question of valuation limits. In regard to credit unions, I again remind the House that there have always been young people who chose to put their savings in a credit union who are penalised by the Government. Although there is now some element of prejudice being lifted from them, nevertheless some remains. Discrimination is still in evidence against credit unions compared with other lending authorities. I summarise my objections in this way: Firstly, I believe that the equation between the level of the grant and the savings capacity cannot be justified. Secondly, I believe that the nexus between grants should be broken and that grants should be given to all young people entering into a contract to build or buy a home. Finally, no limit should be placed on the value of the home. That is where I stand on this legislation. 
While the valuation limit remains, the increased level of valuation should be given a substantial period of retrospectivity. There are many people in my electorate who have found that the valuation limit has just been lifted to incorporate the value of their homes. I think it is to date from 16th August. How ironical, agonising and distressing it must be to have entered into a contract to build or buy a home a week, a month or 3 months before the Government has suddenly seen the folly of its ways. Yet, the Government is going to go on penalising these young people. I mentioned that credit unions should be put on the same basis as savings banks and building societies. I believe that in addition, owner-builders' homes should be considered under the scheme in terms of the actual costs rather than the valuation placed upon them. 
That is true; I think that independent valuers are sent out to value the homes. In any case, valuers other than those from the Valuer-General's Department undertake these valuations. Surely a young couple who are working hard should be able to receive the benefit of the extra sacrifice that they make. We are faced with the ridiculous and absurd situation where people can build a big house on cheap land and qualify for a grant under this scheme. But if they built a big house on more expensive land they could be excluded from the scheme. 
There is an arbitrary provision as to where one lives. One could go out on the western plains of Sydney where the land is not so expensive and build a very substantial house, perhaps of 18 squares, and qualify under the scheme. But if one happened to live around the southern part of Sydney closer to the sea or even in the northern part of Sydney where the land values are higher one could be excluded from the scheme. A person could be just going a few miles from where he was brought up - perhaps in the Sutherland area around Port Hacking or Como or Cronulla, an area I represented for many years, where the land values are higher - and yet could be automatically excluded from the scheme because of the cost of land. 
Why should the land be taken into account? If the Government wants to try to get some real equity about values, it should be concerned only with the value of a home. Preferably, in my view, the Government should lift valuation limits altogether. The 36-years age limit is another discriminatory barrier which, in my view, cannot be justified. I refer again to rejections on valuation grounds. I believe that in many cases the applicants who are rejected should be regarded as among the most worthy. They have a declared saving commitment which requires them to repay more than double the amount originally borrowed, as I have already shown. Just about everybody who borrows the average loan in Sydney now repays more than double the amount he borrowed. If somebody wants to build a nicer house, why should he be penalised? In most cases these people will build a reasonably priced home in a high land cost area located close to where they have lived all their lives. 
With this present limit of S17,500, many young couples in my electorate have no chance at all. That is something like the price they have to pay for their land. Can the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  actually sit there and be oblivious to the fact that 17 miles from Sydney, in the Menai area, there is a large piece of land zoned as an area where 70,000 people are to live and where the average price is to be $20,000? If the Minister recognises that fact, is he prepared to acknowledge that among those people will be some of the most hard working, conscientious, diligent and hard saving young people in the community? Why does he uphold legislation which excludes them from the prospect of gaining any assistance at all? Even the proposed increase in the valuation limit to $22,500 will not alleviate this practical problem. 
There is not much time left for me to make some of my other points, but I want to refer to the age limit barrier because I think it is one of the most unjust aspects of the scheme. Thirty-six years of age is the closing off age for eligibility under the Homes Savings Grant Act. The persons most disadvantaged by this provision are those on lower incomes who have not been able to buy a house for a number of years in their early married life. They have had to scrimp and save through their early years of married life to be able to afford a home. Many of these people are in their late thirties before they can start to seek a building loan or enter into a contract to build or buy. But there are others as well. There are such people as policemen, members of the Armed Services, Ministers of religion and school teachers. Only last week when 1 visited Service establishments in Queensland I raised this matter with a number of servicemen. They told me that they regretted the fact that the Government had not seen fit to include them in the scheme because their discharge from the Army cannot be facilitated until they are over 36 years of age. I remind the House that this legislation was always designed as an election winner. It has been brought up to date in pre-election periods. It is not designed basically to provide any proper resolution of the housing problem. Here again the Government is wheeling up expediencies. I think it should face up to more fundamental matters. 
I want to spend a short time discussing the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise and I refer to what I regard to be the extremely cumbersome arrangements that operate in regard to incoming passengers to Australia and the duty free goods which accompany them. It surprises me that a government could be in office for so long and see this extremely badly organised system which causes widespread inconvenience and many other deleterious effects without doing anything useful about it. As every honourable member and most people when travelling know, there is a range of goods that can be brought into Australia by travellers coming from overseas. The popular ones which are brought in include 400 cigarettes or 1 lb of cigars or 1 lb of tobacco and half a gallon of alcoholic liquor, which includes wine and beer - for example, three 26 fluid oz bottles. I am quoting from a brochure entitled 'Australian Customs Information' which is handed out on aeroplanes. I have had the notion for a long time that this was an unruly, unreasonable, unaccountable and an unjustifiably messed-up way of doing things. 
Indeed, one of my constituents who is a business man of some considerable renown and accomplishment also had this idea and the principal reason for which I have risen tonight is to draw attention again to the need to overhaul this system and to claim some redress for my constituent. I believe that he has placed a very fair and reasonable case to the Government but this idea now looks like being poached or, if not actually poached, the idea that my constituent invented has been given to somebody else who, it appears to me, could well be a friend of the Government. There  have been strong suggestions made of the extent of the friendship that could prevail between the Government and the other firm which is now benefiting by the ideas that were put forward by my constituent and the company of which he is a principal. 
He asked me to mention his name. He is a  Mr C.  Ashton and he wrote to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  on 29th April and drew attention to the fact that this unsatisfactory system is operating. I will read some sections of his letter. It states: 
As you are no doubt aware, a high proportion of airline passengers entering Australia on international flights avail themselves of the opportunity to import the full quantity of spirituous liquors, cigars and cigarettes allowable under the current regulations relating to duty free goods. 
Usually these goods are purchased en-route, the two main international airports catering for this trade being Nadi (Fiji) and Singapore. Most other international airports also offer facilities for the outward bound passengers to purchase duty free goods. 
Although there is no doubt this duty-free allowance is a boon to travellers, it is without benefit or favour to this country in general nor to the airlines in particular for the following reasons: 
Each incoming aircraft carries up to twelve hundred pounds weight of extra cargo, consisting entirely of liquor purchased by the passengers en-route. 
The carrier company does not receive payment for the extra weight carried. 
The actual handling of this extra cargo is carried out by employees of the airlines, and is both costly and time consuming. 
Although the goods are consumed in this country all benefits from the proceeds of sales remain in the countries where the goods are purchased. 
However, it is felt that this method of importing personal allowances of duty free liquor and tobacco can be modified, to the advantage of all concerned, briefly outlined as follows. 
My proposal is to set up an organisation in Australia, based probably at Sydney, which would offer the incoming air traveller the facility to purchase supplies of spirituous liquors, cigars and cigarettes at duty free prices and have the articles delivered at an airport destination in Australia. 
Sales would be carried out en-route by the existing cabin personnel of the various airlines, and sales representatives at various international airports. 
Details of purchases by the passengers of each flight would be forwarded prior to E.T.A. and upon arrival of aircraft, delivery of goods would be made before the completion of custom's formalities. 
Stocks of goods to be supplied from a bond store in the same manner that stocks are made available  forduty free  sales to outgoing passengers. obvious benefits being, 
Space formerly used to carry (his cargo can be used to better advantage. 
Airline employees will not be handling unprofitable cargo. 
Airlines would receive commission on sales. 
Added service to passengers. 
Proceeds of sales would be brought into Australia. 
Opportunity, through sales, to gain foreign currency. 

 Mr Ashton then went on to ask that consideration be given to his proposal. He indicated that it was his intention to apply for approval to carry on such a business in Australia. It seemed to me to be a reasonable proposition and one that should have been implemented on the initiative of the Government a long time ago. 
I wrote to the Minister for Customs and Excise and, as is his custom, he wrote back quite promptly - within about a month, I think - and told me of his views on the matter. In part of his letter to me of 4th June he said: 
Facilitation of passenger clearance is more vital today than ever before and assumes even greater importance with the advent of high capacity aircraft. For this reason facilitation was a major factor in considering the advantages and disadvantages of extending existing duty, free shopping facilities. Other factors taken into account included increased administrative costs and possible objections from local retailers. 
While I concede the validity of several of the points raised by  Mr Ashton  in favour of inwards duty free shopping, I am not prepared to approve a change in policy as 1 believe that overall such a facility would seriously impede the free flow of passengers. 
To my surprise, not long after that 1 discovered a substantial article in the. 'Australian Financial Review' written by one John Stackhouse under the heading 'Soon you'll be able to buy duty free as you enter Australia'. This came to my attention not long after the Minister for Customs and Excise had told me that it was not a practical idea. 1 was very surprised to read that article. I will not have time to read it out, except for a few extracts. In part it says: 
Passengers arriving from overseas at Sydney Airport will soon be able to buy duty free goods as they enter Australia. 
The new concession, which the Departments of Customs and Civil Aviation are working out, will be a shot in the arm for Sydney duty free concessionaires Olims Ltd, not to mention the airlines. 
The article goes on at considerable length. It says: 
It also means greater convenience for the passenger, who does not have to encumber himself with heavy and bulky purchases until he is on the last lap up to the Customs hall. 
It goes on, significantly, to say: 
Olims Consolidated Ltd reported a $4.7m loss in 1970-71 mainly because of airport trading. 
Honourable members can well understand my consternation in this situation. Here is a man who is a resourceful businessman and who evolves a scheme, puts it in writing to the Minister and has it sensibly represented through his member of Parliament - through a sensible member of Parliament. It is suitably acknowledged, but the nature of the Minister's advice is that the scheme is not practical. A short time afterwards along comes this dramatic announcement that it is being considered in regard to one of the concessionaires, a well-established friend of the Government. Naturally, I sent a telegram to the Minister for Customs and Excise as follows: 
Refer to report on page 7 today's 'Financial Review' headed 'Soon you'll be able to buy duty free as you enter Australia'. This proposal was represented to you by me 29th April 1971 on behalf of  Mr C.  0. Ashton. . . . You replied 4th June 1971 saying you were not prepared to approve a change in policy etc. How can you reconcile outright rejection of Ashton's original idea with developments as outlined in 'Financial Review' article? Have Olims Ltd been given privileged treatment? Believe  Mr Ashton  entitled to some explanation to justify changed policy. 
The Minister has since written to me saying that it is not the prerogative of the Department of Customs and Excise now and that he believes the matter is one for the Department of Civil Aviation. Clearly a Customs aspect is involved. Clearly a far more comprehensive acknowledgment and reply and, I think, an apology are due to  Mr Ashton.  I hope that he will not be excluded from consideration when the plums are being allocated, if in fact this Government has the chance in the future to allocate any of these plums. Here is a man who had an original idea but the Government did not recognise or appreciate it for some time. Apparently the idea was canvassed amongst the concessionaires, or at least by one concessionaire, and as a result my constituent is being disadvantaged and other people are being advantaged. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which registered hospitals in each Slate and Territory operate rehabilitation units for (a) geriatric patients, (b) other patients and (c) geriatric and other patients. 
How many registered hospitals are there in each State and Territory without rehabilitation units. 
In directing my question to the Prime Minister I refer to 2 bomb explosions which injured 16 people in Sydney last week-end. I ask: Will the Prime Minister consider offering a large reward for information leading to the conviction of the people responsible? Would such an action back up the Premier of New South Wales and demonstrate the Commonwealth's concern about this serious drift to terror and lawlessness? 
The Social Services Bill 1972 will be known as the Bill which skimmed off the cream and left the milk to curdle. While there are riches on the top it rides on an incessant cesspool of unattended poverty and deprivation. I will show some of the deficiencies of the legislation and some of the matters that have not been emphasised by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  who has just resumed his seat. It is fair to say that the social services structure of this country is a mosaic of ideological fragmentation. It involves in my view electioneering in inequity. The free of means test pension will prove to be a mirage for tens of thousands of people, an elusive aspiration for lots of needy Australians. The much vaunted means test free pension is intended only for persons 65 years and over. This is not a fact that is emphasised over much in the speeches of Government supporters. I want the House to have some regard for the enormous number and considerable variety of excluded categories which will nol benefit and the fact that there will be driven into the ranks of social service recipients a state of privilege which will be enjoyed by some and denied to others. Before anybody disagrees with that contention let me put to the House that under the scheme which has been outlined by the . Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  when presenting this Bill, the women, who retire at 60 years of age will not benefit from this means test free pension for some 5 years of their pension life. Why is it that men at their standard retiring age of 65 will qualify for this means test free pension while this traditional discriminatory attitude which has always characterised this Government bears so heavily upon women. For 5 years of their retirement women will be deprived of the benefits of this means test free pension which is only, available to people 65 years and over. Let us look at the plight of the widows of this country who are to receive under the provisions of this Bill a pension which will be less than that provided for aged pensioners. In a recent annual report of the Department of Social Services I read that there were som i 90,399 widows in Australia, of whom 47,146 were class A widows and some 43,000 class B widows. The class A widows are the ones with dependant children. Each of those categories of widows will receive an inadequate pension to start with. It is an unfortunate fact, and an unprincipled approach to the whole matter, that widows will be subjected to this means test. 
These people who are to be thrown into this despairing state often would like to lift their standards of living and the standards which their children should enjoy. They are prepared to go out to work but this Government has decided to hobble them and as a result we find another area of discrimination and deprivation. 
Then we can think in terms of exservicemen. Although they are not directly 
Covered by this legislation the Minister knows that they are linked to it I am speaking especially of the service pensioner who goes into retirement at 60 years of age and who has to wait 5 years before he or she qualifies for a pension free of means test which is available only to people of 65 years of age or over. Also there is the exservice woman who applies for a service pen. sion at 55 years of age. Such a person has to wait for' 10 long years to be able to qualify for a pension free df the means test. It does not matter whether these people are Widows, ex-servicemen, ex-service women or invalids. It does not matter whether, if they benefit from an estate, they are unable to earn a living. The fact of the matter is that if they derive some additional assets by virtue of a legacy or estate they will be placed in a different position, substandard to the position of other pensioners. Therefore I do not believe this to be a very high principled proposal in many respects. There are 20 countries that already provide pensions without a means test. Australia is to have only a partial pension arrangement free of the means test. 
There are so many other disabilities about our social services system. For example, the portability of pensions is not referred to in the Minister's second reading speech. Quite a number of countries have pension portability. Indeed, I can recall 10 who have this arrangement. Australia is to have a reciprocal arrangement with but 2 countries in it - Australia and New Zealand. In addition to that, a number of countries have been able to relate their pensions to an index system; but Australia has never aspired to that idealistic arrangement. 
I would like to outline to the House the proposals that are encompassed in this legislation. Firstly it is intended to raise the age and invalid pensions payable to single pensioners and to widows with children by $1.75 to $20 a week. This is an improvement on an unsatisfactory situation. The married rate of pension is to be lifted by $2.50 a week raising the maximum weekly payment to $34.50. This amount is $8.50 below the updated poverty line of $43 for a pensioner which was set by Professor Henderson. Can anyone on tho Government side be proud of that situation? 
Under this legislation widows without children are to receive an increase of SI -25 a week to a new maximum rate of $17.25 - not $20, as is the case for an age pensioner. A person in this category will receive $2.75 a week less than the amount which will be given to a single age pensioner. What is the reason for that kind of discrimination? A widow in this category might live side by side with a single pensioner; yet this Government considers it fair and reasonable that she should receive $2.75 a week less. What is the position concerning the wife of a pensioner? The glaring anomaly which arose in this case at least has been redressed belatedly, although not completely. Th: non-pensioner wife of a pensioner husband is now to receive a pension at the married rate. Such a couple up to this time have been living on $18.25 a week which has hardly been a bonanza weekly income for 2 people. 
The supplementary pension, commonly known as the rent allowance, of $2 a week for single pensioners is now to be doubled and extended to married pensioners paying rent. But still no aid is being given to pensioners, single or married who are dissipating their meagre income by paying off a home. If it is reasonable to think of the plight of a pensioner whose standard of living is reduced by the outgoing of weekly rent it is certainly reasonable to consider those whose standard of living is adversely affected by the commitment of having to pay off a home. To many of these people it is a case of paying off a house or losing it. In some situations it is a case of paying off a house and starving. This Government has not worried too much about the dilemma with which such people are confronted. 
Let me refer now to the long term sickness benefit. This benefit, which is extended to persons suffering long term loss of employment through sickness at last has been raised so that the rate for the adult or married minor recipient is to be $20 a week. That is an improvement. Yet how does the Minister justify the fact that the spouse of the recipient is still to receive but $8 a week, making a total of $28 a week. How is a couple to live for a considerable time - at least 6 weeks, which is the minimum qualifying period - on $28 a week, not $34.50 a week which is paid under the legislation to a pensioner couple who mightlive next door and go to the same butcher, baker and candlestick maker. One couple would receive$6.50 a week less than the other. 
That is true. I have outlined the range of benefits set out in the legislation. I would now like to draw some conclusions. Firstly I want to deal with the rates paid to age and invalid pensioners and the relationship that they have to average male earnings. In this connection I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which shows the relationship of pensions to average earnings over a considerable period of years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209210_43_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080131197209210_43_1.jpg"></graphic>

For a long time the Australian Labor Party has been committed to lifting the basic pension rate to 25 per cent of average male earnings. Already there are 9 countries which are tied to an index system. Those countries are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Holland, Sweden, West Germany and Norway. For some unaccountable reason we are now content to be second best in a field of social services where once we used to be the best. Why cannot we tie our whole range of social services - not just the age, invalid or widow's pensions - to an index system? Why cannot we get away from this political auction mart where this matter seems to gain great stimulation in the period preceding every election? Why cannot we have an automatic adjustment system which is based on statistics, facts and equity and which basically emanates from the fountain of human compassion and decency? This would be the most simple way to approach  lt.  Yet this Government has for so long turned its eye away from that obvious approach to the social welfare structure. 
A basic pension rate of 25 per cent of average male earnings, as the Labor Party advocates, was in fact paid to pensioners more than 3 decades ago in this country. That rate is not being paid today. The rate has fallen considerably; it has been below 20 per cent of average earnings over most of the last 20 years. In only 2 of the last 22 years has the married pensioner rate as a proportion of average weekly earnings fallen below what it will be this year. The table that I have incorporated in Hansard indicates that fact. According to the Budget, average weekly earnings have risen over the previous year by 9 per cent and stand today at $101.60. Married pensioners are to receive $17.25 a week and this amount represents 17 per cent of that average weekly earning level of $101.60. For 14 years to 1964 the percentage never fell below 20.4 per cent. In fact, it reached a peak of 22.2 per cent in 1957-58. The married rate fell in October 1964 to 19.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. It has declined steadily since then to a trough, an all-time low, in 1970-71 of 16.2 per cent and it now stands at the mediocre level of 17 per cent, not the 22.2 per cent it was some years ago. 
Similarly pensions for single pensioners have been affected. Almost the same pattern has been followed with these people. Under this Bill the single pension will be $20 a week or 19 per cent of the average weekly earnings rate of $101. 60c. It has been a smaller proportion only in the 2 preceding years- 1970-71 and 1971-72. The figures I quote are indisputable; they derive from the Legislative Research Service, which acknowledges the data source as the Budget Papers 1972-73, the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics and the DirectorGeneral of Social Services. These tables are now, by courtesy of the Minister, incorporated in Hansard for all people to observe the tragedy that in 1972 the Government is proposing a rate of pension which is a much smaller proportion of average weekly earnings than has been the case for most of the last 20 years or so. 
What would be the position under a Labor government in terms of the commitment we have made to raise pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? At that rate the single pensioner would receive a pension of $25.40 a week - an increase in the fortnightly cheque of $10.80. We will have no truck with the cynical, if not contemptible, practice of playing with pensions for election purposes. Consistently and over a long period the Labor Party has proposed that the 25 per cent proportion should be set and that pensions should be adjusted automatically at regular periods according to movements in the Statistician's index of average weekly earnings. As national prosperity rises, as shown by improvements in gross national product, it should be possible under a Labor government to lift the proportion of average weekly earnings to be given to pensioners with the aim of achieving a level of 30 per cent of average weekly earnings probably by the end of the present decade. 
Many matters are left unattended in the Budget. This is the matter that gives me great concern. The Government has picked the eyes out of the social services spectrum to tantalise the electors in the near future. 
If the honourable member is not embarrassed by the fact that there has not been a proportionate increase for all pensioners and dependants, I think it is regrettable that he lacks that sensitivity. The fact of the matter is that the guardian's allowance payable to a pensioner with a child under 6 years or an invalid child requiring full-time care remains at $6 a week. There has been no extra consideration for these people, who are denied the right to work and so to take advantage of the easing of the means test because they have to stay at home and look after the little child or invalid child. The widow's children's allowances remain the same -  $6  in some cases. The mother's allowance for children apart from the very young ones or the invalid ones remains unchanged at $4. The allowance for each dependant child stays at $4.50. 
I deal next with long term sickness benefits. While the adult or married minor is to get at $1.75 rise, his spouse continues to receive only $8 a week. The allowance for each child remains unchanged at $4.50. The same applies to unemployment and sickness benefits. There is no change. The rates of benefit are $17 a week for an adult or married minor, $8 for a spouse, $4.50 for each child under 16 years, and so they go on through the range of social service benefits affecting the family. The maternity allowance for the first child is $30. It has been that amount for many years. The allowance is $32 for the second child and $35 for subsequent children. There is no movement in those allowances in this Budget. Child endowment has been ignored. Back in 1949-50 child endowment was paid at the rate of $2.50 for 3 children, which represented 18.05 per cent of average weekly earnings. The amount payable now is $3.50, and that represents only 6.3 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
So, we find enormous discrimination between the pensioners of our country and the recipients of social service benefits generally. In my view the Social Services Bill brought down by this Government represents no signpost for the future. It provides no blueprint for equitable, fair and just arrangements. It will leave in its wake and as a legacy an enormous number of people who will have to live at standards which reflect on the Government that has prevailed for so long and which, through the Government, reflect on the people of the country at large. Accordingly, the Labor Party will take the first opportunity to update all social services to a level which will have regard to the needs of the people and will ensure that automatic adjustments are made. 
Mi DEPOTS  SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to speak for a short time about the Repatriation Bill. I understand that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  who is in charge of the House is feeling like an impatient bride and wants to pack the whole business up. Nevertheless it ought to be recognised that this debate has been in progress I think for less than  2i  hours. It was not so many years ago when Parliament used to spend something like a day on repatriation. I think there is a sadistic sickness in the country when the Government, which seems to reflect in many matters the views of the people, regards this matter as capable of being downgraded. I believe it is worthy of ventilation and adequate time. I claim the right to say a few words because since I came here I have always felt strongly about this matter, having had a personal involvement with it since the time I was a little kid. 
I was very pleased to hear what was said by speakers from both sides of the House this evening. I am always encouraged to hear my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  because he is a man of military involvement. He is a man who suffered in the war. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who also spoke, is a man of similar distinction. My colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is a man who has applied himself with skill, expertise and great sincerity to the cause of ex-servicemen. The fact that he has been able to bring to the consideration of the Parliament tonight some of the very perplexing questions that are in fact affecting a large number of exservicemen I think has been to the advantage of ex-servicemen around Australia. I remember the occasions in this Parliament when some of the great debates about the Repatriation Act and the contentious issues such as section 47 and the onus of proof provisions took place. I recall the wit and wisdom of  Dr Evatt  and Percy Joske who were thrown together, not into a confrontation, but into a genuine analysis of this highly vexed question. The fact of the matter is that some of these matters have never been satisfactorily resolved. I know that some honourable members want to stop me from talking and do not want this matter ventilated overmuch. I appreciate that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has given me but 10 minutes; but, there are some honourable members on his side of the House who have never wanted this matter ventilated overmuch. For years the repatriation debate invariably was kept off the air. If the debate was in the House of Representatives it was never on the radio; if it was in the Senate it was never on the radio. The ex-servicemen at that time felt strong and were organised in an effective and efficient way. They created the Returned Services League pension plan which I am very pleased to say the Labor Party backed to the hilt right from its inception. As one who was involved in bringing the 10-point RSL plan to Parliament I will never forget the superficial sincerity of those opposite who, when forced to vote on things like the onus of proof and the automatic acceptance of cancer as war-caused, let the side down. 
As I see it, and in terms of what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, section 47 ought to be the subject of a great debate in this Parliament. We ought to have the Evatts, the Joskes and other men of great legal capacity back here. I believe that one has to stand in this situation taking the view that the Crown is guilty, not the appellant. The onus of proof is supposed to fall on the Crown, not on the ex-servicemen. The Crown should have the job of exonerating itself. But in practice that principle is not working out in the tribunals and in the great ramifications of the repatriation administration today in the way envisaged by both Percy Joske, the former honourable member for Balaclava who is now a member of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, and the late  Dr Evatt.  Percy Joske and  Dr Evatt  never quite had the numbers to give expression to this great ideal and get  a  proper practical understanding of it from the standpoint of parliamentary administration. 
What is the position today? We find that with the passing of time, ex-servicemen have lost their capacity to properly identify the cause of their disability. What a pussyfooting country Australia is. We are not even prepared to say to ex-servicemen that they can have complete medical and hospital care for disabilities whether they are established as being war-caused or not. Half of the world now has this sort of benefit. Yet, we are not prepared to say that we will follow suit. We have this quibbling in the great tribunals. I remember the words of Henry Lawson : 
I leave you alone in your cultured halls, 
To drivel and croak and cavil: 
Till your voice goes further than college walls, 
Keep out the tracks we travel!  1 suppose we could draw a parallel with an ex-serviceman having to satisfy a highprincipled public servant somewhere, perhaps someone in a tribunal or maybe a number of men in a tribunal. How can these men ever understand that the ulcer, the stroke or anything else that an exserviceman suffers from might have been attributable to war service? These things are diffused; we have lost track of them. It is time that a new breath of spring was swept into the conception of our outlook towards the ex-servicemen of this country. As I see it the system is weak-kneed and uninspired, and the Labor Party stands against it. 
I am not even satisfied with the Budget provisions that are outlined in the Bill before us. I do not want to get too involved because I do not have the time. My colleague the honourable member for Mitchell has enunciated a number of the provisions contained in this Bill which were outlined in the Budget. But there are many provisions that ought to be brought down that have not been brought down. There are many repatriation pensions which are a smaller percentage of average weekly earnings now than was the case 20 years ago. The value of many of these pensions is deteriorating. That is not good enough. The Government and the country at large has decided to do something about the means test. But what will the Government do about people on repatriation pensions. The Government is to ease the means test for people who are over 65 years of age. It is going to tip the exserviceman out, or at least give him the right to retire at 60, as is his due. But it will not give him the prerogative of relieving himself of the burdens and the iniquities of the means test. An ex-servicewoman at 55 years of age will have to wait 10 years when she goes off on her service pension before she is relieved from the iniquitous effects of the means test. 
What is the position of war widows, people like my mother who fulfilled that role from the time I was 6 and who never let me miss out on a school holiday and who bought the first refrigerator and the first washing machine in my street. She was not prepared just to be a sycophant - she wanted to get out and work. The Government is going to make the war widows of this country wait until they are 60 years of age before they can be relieved of the iniquities of the means test. There are so many things that one can say about this. I want to say that the Government is not treating repatriation seriously enough. The real fervour and feeling about the cause of ex-servicemen is not evident in this Parliament. The Minister in charge of the House  (Mr Chipp)  wants to call it a day, pack it up, wrap it up and put it away. I can tell the Minister for Repatriation that for any fair dinkum member of Parliament who is prepared to make himself available there are stacks of ex-servicemen in this country who contend - and who justifiably contend in my view - that they are not getting their due or justice. I hope that the Parliament will start to recognise that our standards are not superior to those that prevail in other countries. If one reads the Congressional proceedings one finds in regard to the veterans of the United States some characteristics of American legislation that we have not even thought of in Australia. For example, the United States provides for furlough leave as a recognition of the fact that ex-servicemen might be deprived of an element of health that other people may have. The United States has established a system whereby ex-servicemen who cannot avail themselves even of ordinary insurance rights because they are regarded as a greater risk than most other people in the community are given the benefit of a privileged insurance system. So I say something to the honourable member for Boothby, who is interjecting- 
I say that if the honourable member has lost a real appreciation of the men who served this country it is unfortunate. But it is a good thing that there are some people, including those of the RSL, who do their best to keep the flame of obligation and responsibility alive. Since my election to this Parliament and for the time I will be in this House I will play my part in achieving that end. I do not need much encouragement from honourable members opposite but I am gratified to know that there are people on both sides of the Parliament who are not going to be sucked in by this sickness that is running through the novels and paperbacks but who will manifest a genuine sense of obligation which all Australians ought to have for the men who served this country. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that all printing for the Australian Tourist Commission is done by private printers. 
What is the annual cost of the Commission's printing. 
Has the Commission received from the Government any encouragement to seek out the advantages of utilising the services of Government printers. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior whether the Government has abandoned the proposal to build a $50m centralised Commonwealth office complex at Wooloomooloo to accommodate approximately 15,000 public servants. Would such a project add intolerable congestion to the inner Sydney area and prevent development of much needed housing and recreation areas? Will the Minister uphold the principles of decentralisation by supporting the proposal that this complex should be dispersed to such places as Parramatta, Blacktown, Sutherland and certain country regions? 

 - Mr Speaker. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
MrChipp - No. 
 Mr Speaker,  I raise a point of order. You may have misunder stood me. I was seeking leave to make a statement on the statement made by the Minister for the Interior. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What terms and conditions have applied to the (a) sale and (b) rental of Government houses in Canberra to members of Parliament during each of the last 5 years. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This debate concerns the role of the Commonwealth Government in urban and regional development. It follows the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 19th September. Dispersion of the Australian population into resource related locations and properly planned enironments can only ever emanate and be effectively fulfilled through inspired, informed and cohesive initiatives on the part of the Commonwealth Government. The widespread deprivation of country towns, the uneconomic and inadequately planned growth of cities with attendant squalor and sociological problems result from the lack of Commonwealth initiative. Now the Prime Minister after 23 years of successive Liberal-Country Party coalition governments, acknowledges this fact. For the first time the Government admits its liability and presumably its neglect. 
It is hard to reconcile this new-found interest by the Commonwealth Government for, when all is said and done, this is the Government with the inspired concept of estabishing in crowded 'Melbourne a new Commonwealth office complex worth $60m to accommodate some 20,000 employees. This is the Government which recently proposed that in the bottlenecked peninsula of Wooloomooloo in the heart of Sydney a Commonwealth office complex should be built to provide accommodation at a cost of some $50m for 15,000 public servants. This is the Government which, for example, sustains the concept that there should bea military area of Holsworthy, crowding on to the southern perimeter of Sydney with some 72,000 acres of land tied up - some 85 square miles, I am told - an area which the State Planning Authority has sought for some considerable time for the purpose of providing some 40,000 job opportunities for the people of Sydney and for the purpose of providing residential opportunities for a quarter of a million people. This is the Government which is intent on establishing naval bases at South Head in Sydney in an area that ought to be preserved for a national park. This is the Government that takes away Cockburn Sound from the people of Perth because of its unwillingness to find a naval base in a more suitable part of Australia. So it is very hard to reconcile this new-found interest that the Government has in decentralisation and the environment. 
No-one begrudges this new-found recognition of the role of the national Government in contemporary Australia. The tragedy is that a decade has gone since the awareness of the developing crisis in urban affairs and its preparedness to confront it. 1 want honourable members to hear part of what Hugh Stretton had to say in his book 'Ideas for Australian Cities'. I specifically refer to what he said about the 2 sides in politics in connection with this question. He said: 
Liberal and Country Party governments of the Commonwealth have had simple, stable urban policies for 20 years. First, the Commonwealth determines the amounts of most of the states' housing and road moneys. Second, there are no other federal urban policies (outside Canberra) because the cities belong to the states. Third, the Commonwealth government in practice fixes the national levels and the states' shares of public investment and expenditure. The levels it fixes are alleged, by critics who include plenty of Liberal state premiers, to provide a squalid, half-starved public sector. Among other offences, the Commonwealth finances most of its own capital works out if revenue and makes the states and municipalities finance theirs by borrowing, so that loan interest eats up a rising proportion of whatever revenue they do get. 
That is what Hugh Stretton, an acknowledged and unbiassed authority on these matters, had to say in regard to Liberal and Country Party governments. 
I would now like to read to honourable members what Hugh Stretton bad to say about the Labor Party and especially about its leader. He said: 
Whitlam is strong for new cities. This alone, if he could give effect to it, would be enough to distinguish his policies from those of the federal Liberal and Country parties, like life from slow death. His policy speech before the 1969 election promised means to enable governments to deal in urban land. He proposes commonwealth-state partnerships to establish regional development authorities, on the well tried models of the Snowy Mountains Authority and the National Capital Development Commission. 
That concludes my quotes from Hugh Stretton who has summed up the situation quite effectively, in my view. 
Overcrowding of our cities has continued unabated as an analysis of the census figures reveals. The 1961 census showed that 49.7 per cent of the Australian population lived in 4 cities. The 1966 census showed that 51.9 per cent lived in 4 cities - an increase in city congregation of 2.2 per cent in 5 years. Doubtless it has grown at a faster rate in the interim period since 1966. In 1961, 64.8 per cent of our population lived in 24 urban centres with a population size in excess of 25,000. In 1966 there were only 22 such urban centres accounting for 66.8 per cent of the population. The cost penalties for this unchecked expansion of urban growth are of hidden but astronomical proportions. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in his Budget Speech, talked of a 3 per cent growth rate in the economy. What he did not explain was that we can have an increase of national income per head or an increase in gross national product and be individually and collectively worse off. In fact, national income does not measure the well being of the community in any meaningful way at all.  Dr Max  Neutze, head of the Urban Research Unit of the Australian National University, put some credence Into this assertion when he said: 
The more money we spend on commuting and/or sewerage and garbage disposal the higher the national income. 
Yet these are part of the costs we pay for living in cities. Not only we do fail to deduct some of the costs of earning our income, such as pollution and congestion, but when we spend money to minimise such costs, actually add it to the income. 
It follows that to maximise the benefits of national income the area of penalties must be minimised. Our urban centres must be so proportioned as to reduce the liability of commuter costs and transport systems, pollution control and garbage and sewerage disposal, and all the sociological consequences that flow from a badly planned city. All this is best achieved by planning and avoidance rather than by any remedial or rehabilitative process. 
The problems that have descended on our major urban centres result from excessive growth, inadequate planning and lack of finance. In all these matters the Commonwealth can be influential, supportative and with other areas of government, completely adequate. Why has the Government ignored the need for new cities? In the United Kingdom the New Towns Act of 1946 was used as the vehicle for the creation of 14 new towns between 1947 and 1950, one in 1956 and 8 more between 1961 and 1968. This Act - the New Towns Act - is currently employed to effect major expansions to 5 existing towns. In all, 30 new towns are being created for a total population of 2.5 million people. The planning and development of housing, industry and transport have been effectively integrated by the joint efforts of town development corporations and the Ministry of Town and Country Planning. Where is the Australian counterpart for the sort of enterprise we see in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and other federal countries? Why is it that Australia has not emulated this example? 
Professor Winston of the Department of Town and Country Planning at the University of Sydney contends it is mainly for political reasons. He says:  . . it's because the Federal Government has the money but not the power and the State governments have the power but not the money. 
Surely that is the case. The key to this situation is contained in the long-standing position of the Leader of the Opposition who says: 
For all its difficulties and shortcomings the Australian Constitution is not an insurmountable barrier against social reform and social justice. 
He claims: 
If section 92 of the Constitution is held up as the bulwark of private enterprise, then section 96 is the charter of public enterprise and section SI is the key to national responsibility and national regeneration. 
National regeneration has not even been regarded as a prerogative of this Government. Decentralisation will be achieved only when the Commonwealth sets out to deploy resources on a national basis in terms of the national need. 
Under Labor a national development authority would take the lead in formulating a blueprint for new cities in the States and the Northern Territory. It will create a concept of development to utilise the major traffic corridors and to facilitate the growth of satellite communities as appendages to established cities. The implementation of the proposals which will evolve through consultative processes with the States will be under regional development authorities. Conditional grants will be allocated under section 96 of the Constitution to ensure that the serevices already available to the people of the Australian Capital Territory will become available to Australians in other parts of this land. An Australian Institute of Urban Affairs task force of urban planners has reported that Australia urgently needs 15 new cities with up to 500,000 people in each. It predicts that by the year 2000 Sydney's population could grow to 4.9 million and Melbourne's population to 4.6 million and warns that unless this drift to the cities is checked there will be rising dissatisfaction with traffic congestion, rapidly rising land prices, longer journeys to work and the drabness of life in remote suburbs. In all, these expert planners are saying that we should create 15 new cities urgently or confront the spectacle of a further 7 million people clustered around the 5 major cities of Australia. The task force report contains this strong warning: 
A programme to build new cities - even- if started now - would not begin producing a large number of houses for 6 to 9 years. 
In essence we are already too late, and this Government is guilty of allowing this situation to develop. 
The Prime Minister, in this pre-election period, has developed grandiose visions of a new ministerial council made up of the passing parade of State premiers which, with him as its inspirational head, will lead us all to the promised land of planned decentralised urban living. But no-one is inclined to believe him. He speaks of a new urban and regional development authority and of advisory committees which will be comprised of representatives of unidentified organisations and groups, the representatives being chosen for their expertise in relevant fields. Who are these representatives? Obviously the Government has not the foggiest idea and this hastily contrived but vague concept will be no answer to the challenge of our times. 
Where will these great centres be located and on what conditions will land be made available to industry, home seekers and the planning authority? Will it be leasehold land or privately owned land? Will we be freezing land prices? Has the Government any plan at all? Which industries will be encouraged to go to which growth regions, and what methods will be employed to get them there? Will there be tax concessions, payroll tax reductions, transport subsidies? Will there be free land and low interest capital? What incentives will there be? The fact is that the Government still has no idea on any of these questions. What is known of the resources required, the rainfall, the power and water supplies and the sewage outfall and communications systems? Who will build and finance the houses, the streets and schools, hospitals and fire stations, court houses and post offices, and the community centres and recreational facilities? This Government has shown that it disapproves of low cost leasehold land. It has caused the price of Canberra land to rise astronomically in recent years and particularly in recent weeks. 
This Government does not concede that the Commonwealth has any responsibility for sewerage or local government services and does not do anything for them. The sewerage authorities of our major cities for some considerable time have been gathering and calling out for large amounts of money. The Sydney authority is calling for $ 1,000m over the next 10 years to meet the pressing sewerage needs of that city. Altogether the capital cities need $2, 500m over the next 10 years. Is it not a fact that the 900 local government authorities have been calling in vain through the Australian Council of Local Government Associations and that this Government has not heeded their call? Consequently nobody believes that in 1972, on the eve of an election, this Government has suddenly come to learn the folly of its misdemeanours and shortcomings and that it will turn over a new leaf. This Government is responsible for the decadence of the cities and has no plan by which to overcome the problems confronting the people of this country. 
The Opposition joins with the- 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  and express the hope that opportunities might be extended to other members of the Committee who would like to say something about this matter. I must confess that a number of them have worked more assiduously that I on the Committee. I join with the  Chairman- 
1 am not scheduled to speak but because of a misunderstanding on the Speaker's list of speakers, I will take the opportunity of speaking until one of my colleagues arrives. I am pleased that the matter before the Committee concerns Aborigines, the arts and the environment because they represent 3 of the merging issues in Australia about which young people, particularly, are showing a great deal of interest. These are several of the issues which we can identify as representing the future for Australia in many respects and certainly the quality of life for Australians. I cannot help but feel that the Government has a new found interest in some of these issues. I suppose it is better late than never. Even though the Government has emerged so belatedly, in this pre-election period, with concern about Aboriginal welfare, environmental matters and many other things, it will help to compound the efforts that have been made by the Australian Labor Party to make these real issues for the whole country. 
The question of the environment has lacked Commonwealth involvement. Issues have been before the Parliament in recent times which demonstrate this in a very real and effective way. It is staggering to think that the Commonwealth Government, which now has a Minister responsible for environmental affairs, has been a party to putting to the Parliament proposals that would have a deleterious effect on the environment. I refer particularly to the proposal to concentrate Commonwealth Public Service facilities in restricted parts of the great cities of Melbourne and Sydney. Honourable members will recall that the Public Works Committee was directed to make an inquiry into a proposal to establish a $55m, I think it was, office complex at Wooloomooloo which was to accommodate 15,000 personnel. Recently we have heard from the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is at the table, that there is to be a manifestation of governmental concern in the form of impact studies and subsequent statements. The effect of that is to ensure that in respect of every developmental proposal a study will be made from an environmental standpoint. 
I ask the Minister whether, in fact, he has been practising what he preaches in respect of the matters which I have just mentioned. For example, does he think it is good for the environment of Sydney for the Commonwealth to put 15,000 people in a narrow, bottle-necked isthmus which already suffers from great strain from the standpoint of the movement of traffic and the commuting that goes on? The Public Works Committee received evidence from specialised groups and departmental people to the effect that great costs would be involved in amplifying the services if we were to provide that office facility at Wooloomooloo. Yet this is the proposal from the Commonwealth Government. What is to happen now? Does the Government have a genuine regard for the environment to the extent that it will not allow that proposal to proceed and will replace it with a new idea? 
If the Government were re-elected - which I think everyone now concedes is a dubious proposition - would it really be intent on crowding 15,000 people into one Commonwealth building at Wooloomooloo, or would it give expression to the new policies of decentralisation which have been eloquently outlined by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and other spokesmen for the Government in this period preceding the election campaign? Which choice will the Government make? When it is all said and done, only a matter of weeks ago the Government stood for the conglomerated proposal represented by the Wooloomooloo office complex. Subsequently - maybe a week or two later - the Government came down with its decentralisation proposal. Its first proposal would have contributed to the destruction of Sydney's environment. The Wooloomooloo area needs replenishing with people, parks and landscaped areas, instead of adding to the intensive development that is already in evidence there. Where was the example? Where was the impact study? If the Minister is to reply at all, I hope that he will make some reference to this matter and the question of where the Government stands on the matter now. The Committee also examined a proposal for an office complex in Melbourne to accommodate 20,000 office employees. 
Committees such as the Public Works Committee should not have to take the law into their own hands. I suppose this is the kind of thing that is happening all round Australia, where there are strikes and demonstrations which often occur because this Government has failed to face up to pressing issues. Even committees of the Parliament have to take decisions at their level instead of the decisions being taken at the conceptual Cabinet level. The Public Works Committee did not want to stop the Wooloomooloo office complex project. We know that its cancellation would mean great inconvenience to the Public Service and to the facilitation of government busi ness and the business that people do with governments and so on. We have a similar attitude to the Melbourne office complex. Some members of the Committee were tempted to knock that proposal back also, because it cannot be accounted for in terms of environmental considerations. It is important for the Government to make itself clear. Is it just going to bring down statements or is it honestly intent on giving effect to these high principles? 
I should like to say just a few words about Aboriginal affairs. 1 think, here again, there are indications that the Government has not facilitated proper co-ordination between the various governmental departments which have a responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. I refer especially to the Kormilda College, which is an educational residential college for Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. Some 500 pages of evidence were taken by the Public Works Committee in respect of a proposal to replace the existing facilities at Kormilda. Among the witnesses were public servants and representatives of sections of the Northern Territory Administration. The proposal involves the expenditure of many millions of dollars. I should like to know from the Minister - who, after all, is responsible for the administration of the Government's policy on Aboriginal affairs - whether his own Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs has a view about the residential college concept for Aboriginal students which is being implemented in the Gove Peninsula area, in the Yirara College at Alice Springs and in the Kormilda College at Darwin. The fact of the matter is that no evidence was given to the Public Works Committee by the Commonwealth Office for Aboriginal Affairs. 
I put it to the Minister that if he makes inquiries he will find that the Government is financing a proposal which his own Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs does not uphold. Here is just one more example of how this Government, in its desperate state, in attempting to retrieve its flagging electoral prospects is just throwing money here, there and everywhere, willy-nilly almost, without proper comprehension and without proper pursuance of ideals and philosophy, to the point where it is becoming confused and is at cross purposes with itself. I make the charge that many millions of dollars are now being spent on Aboriginal residential colleges in the Northern Territory on proposals which do not have the backing of the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs. I challenge the Minister to produce any statement from the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs indicating its approval, endorsement or support of the Aboriginal residential college concept to which 1 have referred. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he yet conducted the inquiry into the terms and conditions upon which houses are made available to Ministers in Canberra which he promised to instigate in March 1972; if so, with what results. 
The price of housing could be reduced greatly in Australia if we had a Federal government that was prepared to take initiatives. But that has not been the case. There is no point in me directing advice to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who sits at the table, because I believe that his days are numbered. He has lost his chance. He and successive Liberal-Country Party governments have for 23 years been presiding over a deteriorating housing situation. The products of the Government's efforts can be seen in long Housing Commission waiting lists, as was mentioned by my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  high land costs in overcrowded cities and crippling interest rates. But I believe it is an appropriate occasion to talk about the kind of thing that can happen with a change of government and will happen under a Labour government. 
The several things that I am going to mention briefly are not new by any means. They have been mentioned before by my colleague at the table, the honourable member for Reid, and by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  whose attitude has been the very opposite of the conceptual drought that has characterised the honourable members opposite. I ask the Minister why he and his Government have made such a holy cow of requiring people to have deposits for housing. This afternoon I read an article by Angus Moir, who is the  chairman  of the terminating building societies in New South Wales. He said: 
What is it that makes a man with a 10 per cent equity so much more morally reliable? Is a family without a deposit a delinquent family? 
He went on in that article to indicate that the building society movement is prepared to give loans without deposits; that is, to give 100 per cent loans. I want to know why the Government has not had some kind of enthusiasm about this sort of matter. 
My colleague from Reid mentioned that there are over 90,000 people stacked up with State housing authorities around Australia. Why are they in such a queue? Why are they not attending the building society offices, the insurance companies and the banks for the purposes of obtaining a loan so that they can obtain a house of their own instead of being a tenant in somebody else's house? There are several very obvious characteristics about their problem. One is very often that they cannot raise a deposit. For a loan of $21,000 I think the average deposit is about $5,000. We should be able to bridge this deposit gap. The second thing we should be able to do is to provide terms for these people over an extended period of time. 
We now have things like the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. There does not seem to be any reason why a 100 per cent loan cannot be made. These insurance corporations, both the public one and the private one, have had extremely lucrative results in the short time they have been in operation. I notice that in 1970 the Corporation was required to pay back only $23,379 for defaults as against loans insured in that year of $ 165.5m. Because of the rapid increase in real estate values in recent years housing loan insurance involves very little risk. Encouragement should be given by the Government, channelled through to the building society movement. The Government should say: This is what we want and this is the way by which we can eliminate the heart breaking queue which people have joined - those 94,000, I think it is - for homes from State housing authorities'. 
Then we should be able to extend the period of a loan. On average at the present time, the interest repaid on a loan of $15,000 over 25 years at, say, 8 per cent interest is $19,732. I give the Committee another example. If $15,000 is borrowed over 25 years at  8i  per cent interest the, interest repayment on that loan is $21,235. The rate of repayment for such a loan is $120.78 per month. To repay that amount one needs to earn $120 a week. But the bulk of Australians do not earn that amount. In fact, the minimum wage today is $2,700 a year or $54 a week. Anyone who is on the minimum wage has only half the capacity to repay a loan of $15,000. Average earnings in Australia are said to be in the vicinity of $5,000 a year or about $100 a week. Of course., we know this figure is cooked. The tall poppies are included in that calculation. 
lt would have been more appropriate for me to have looked steadfastly ahead when I made reference to tall poppies. Nevertheless, a lot of money is needed these days to pay off this kind of loan. The average income of $5,000 a year or $100 a week is insufficient to meet the repayment on a $15,000 loan - the average loan obtained from a building society in Australia. I believe that there ought to be an onslaught on that matter in the way I have mentioned and the Government ought to be able to extend the period of the loan over 35 years. There are processes by which the loan can be periodically recalculated and readjusted according to the earning capacity of the family. Of course, inflationary trends often take care of these matters. If a person commits himself to a certain amount, in 10 years time he can easily find that that commitment is not a difficult one to discharge. However, we ought to get these people into the system by the process I have mentioned. 
In addition, the Opposition has contended for a long time that there ought to be a move or an initiative taken by the Government to reduce housing costs by way of establishing uniform building codes in Australia. Nothing has been done in this regard despite requests by architects, builders and others engaged in the housing industry. We would like to see something done about chopping conveyancing costs which are enormously expensive, which contribute to delay and add unnecessary financial burdens. It is obviously a ridiculous situation that we require solicitors who are necessarily highly paid people to do work which should be remunerated at a lower level. In other words, we need a new pro fessional force in this country; if not a new one, a resurrection of the old one. We need a conveyancing force re-established so that people can be trained to undertake a prescribed and precise job of work - the business of transferring ownership of land from one person to another. In all the States of Australia except South Australia there is a scale of fees which are paid to solicitors by vendors and purchasers of land which make the transaction extremely and unnecessarily expensive. South Australia, which operates under the Land Agent Act 1955, provides a much better deal and much lower rates. 
Time does not permit me to say any more. However, no new ideas have come from the Government side for a long long time. The Opposition is anxious to have the opportunity to make an assault against unnecessary housing costs in this country not only in respect of the matters I have mentioned but certainly and especially from the standpoint of cutting the price of homes and making leasehold land available in decently planned communities around Australia. 

 - Mr Chairman, some of the points that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  made in answering- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put- - 
That the amendment  (Mr Uren's)  be agreed to. 
I think this matter has considerable relationship to other debates that have taken place in recent weeks. I do not intend W expand the subject matter of those debates but rather to associate some of the principles then expressed with the matter which the Minister for Customs" and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has proposed for approval. This is an enormous proposition that has been referred to the Public Works Committee. I am not sure that terribly many members are familiar with the proportions of the project which probably will become the biggest Commonwealth office complex in Australia if it is accomplished. The actual proposal before the House at this stage involves a 7-storey building but this is the first phase of a complex which will cost $64m and which will accommodate some 19,000 officers, not just in those 7 floors and the podium but also in the three octagonal 30-storey office towers which surround it. I might add that this complex will be constructed in La Trobe and Exhibition Streets in Melbourne. 
The Public Works Committee sensibly conceded that there was an urgent need for Commonwealth-owned office space in Melbourne because at June 197l in Melbourne the Commonwealth was leasing for Commonwealth purposes not less than 1.9 million square feet of office space at a cost of S6.5m a year. In Melbourne 3.9 million square feet of space is used for Commonwealth purposes of which almost half. 49 per cent, is leased at a rental cost of S7.03m per annum. One of the regrettable things that has happened is that the Government will be diverted from its plans and, to some extent, the Australian taxpayers will be disadvantaged because of this diversion and the delay that will take place ultimately in providing all this office space which the Commonwealth should own in substitution for that which it now rents. In other words, the incompetence of the Government - its insensitivity about these matters - will cost the Australian taxpayers a great deal, as was the case with the Sydney offices, lt seems to me that just about everybody rejects the idea of the Sydney Commonwealth office complex. It was not long ago when just a few members of the Public Works Committee did so, but now the Government has lost its enthusiasm for it. lt will cost the taxpayers millions of dollars to rent space in Sydney and Melbourne because these projects will be delayed. They will be delayed because the Government does not really care and on this issue, like so many others, lacks an understanding of modern attitudes to contemporary problems. 
Recently we have had much talk about decentralisation and the environment - this new found love that the Government has - but why did it not apply some of these principles when it brought forward these proposals? How absurd it is to talk about a $64m building for 19,000 people - a building of 30 storeys with 3 towerlike structures, in the already congested and overcrowded Melbourne. I wonder what the' Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  would say about this proposal if he were available to participate in this debate. Recently he has been talking of impact studies which will be made of Government developmental projects. Was this proposal too far back for this principle to be applied? Was any impact study made from an environmental standpoint? The Public Works Committee received evidence to the effect that 2,000 cars would be entering and leaving this site every hour during office hours. It is useful that a rail loop is to be provided beneath this building. To some extent that will alleviate the issue to which I have just referred. Nevertheless the project involves inadequate car parking for the public and for office employees. In general it can be stated confidently that the proposal was a bad one. 
The Minister has said something of the report that has been presented by the Public Works Committee but it is worth mentioning that the Committee had a great deal more to say. It said that whilst it was conceded that authority should be given to go ahead with this first phase it did not necessarily follow that it believed that the construction of subsequent sections should proceed on this same site without further consideration being given to the suitability of their location. In paragraph 49 of its report the Committee makes the point that no consideration has been given to whether Commonwealth offices in Victoria might be better dispersed in suburban Melbourne or in country areas. The Committee said that there had been no questioning in depth of whether it might not be beneficial to the community and/or to the Commonwealth to consider significant decentralisation of some city-based operations. In paragraph 51 of its report the Committee states:   . . we feel that inevitably the vehicular and pedestrian congestion which now occurs at peak periods will be aggravated and as urban Melbourne spreads, the employees and the public concerned will have further to travel with gradually decreasing comfort and convenience. 
Paragraph 52 states: 
The Committee therefore concluded that the Government should take the opportunity before contemplating the construction of the next section of the proposed complex to examine the wisdom of proceeding further with a total project, the result of which would inevitably be a high degree of centralisation. 
Doubtless there are other relevant matters in the report to which I will not have time to refer but in its conclusions the Committee reported: 
The Government should examine the wisdom of proceeding with the Commonwealth centre project beyond phase 1. 
The study should determine whether it might not be more appropriate to locate Victorian branch offices of Commonwealth departments in suburban Melbourne or in country areas. 
I think I am correct in saying that these conclusions were subscribed to unanimously by members of the Committee. As I recall it, there was no dissention on this matter. Country Party, Liberal Party and Labor Party members of the Committee took this point of view. Why is it that the Government puts up a proposition that is totally unacceptable to a committee of this kind? Is there some lack of idealism on the part of Ministers? What is the role of the Minister for Works, for example, in a matter like this? Is he aware of the public concern about congestion and the need to decentralise? Who else is involved? I suggest that the Minister for the Environment, to whom I referred earlier, would be involved. What is he doing about this sort of thing? The situation is becoming critical. It is not just a matter of wasting the Committee's time and the Parliament's time. 
I have made the point that I think it is significant that millions of dollars will be lost if this scheme is not proceeded with because the Commonwealth will be delayed in providing Commonwealth-owned facilities and in the meantime rented space will cost $7m to $8m a year in Melbourne alone. If the Australian taxpayers and electors are without things which they desperately need, whether it is pensions, education or health, they can say that to some extent that problem is persisting because of the incompetence that is being displayed in matters such as these relatively unprincipled propositions which are coming before the Parliament in the form of developmental proposals. I am pleased that the Committee has shown the tolerance that is in evidence in approving of phase 1. I sincerely hope that the Parliament and the Government will take notice of the recommendations that to proceed any further on the site would virtually involve discarding important town planning principles which will have a very great bearing on the welfare of many people. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Opposition members - No. 
Opposition members - Yes. 

 Mr LES JOHNSON (Hughes)- by leave - I appreciate what has been done. I hope my colleague the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  will be able to account for himself because the " consideration of this project has been a little exceptional in the sense that the members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works have come under criticism for the attitude they have taken. I can assure the House that this will affect the behaviour of members of the Committee in the future. It could cost the Parliament a lot of time and, indeed, it could cost a lot pf money if we are not to be put into a more favourable position than the one in which we find ourselves at the moment. The problem here is the fact that a lot of people contend that the Burley Griffin concept of Canberra is being ruined to some extent by this communications tower which is to be built on Black Mountain. Some people take the view that it would be just as bad to put it on Mount Ainslie. They contend that Burley 
Griffin had a great concept, the effect of which was virtually to radiate out from these 2 mountains - Mount Ainslie and Black Mountain - and they think that no one should clutter up that great architectural or town planning concept with a modern tower of this sort. They think it is indecent and unprincipled. 
As I see it, that is the view substantially held around Canberra. Certainly it was the opinion of a lot of people who came before the Committee. It is wrong for anyone to get the impression that we did not hear a lot of evidence and a great deal of informed evidence. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  indicated that that was the case. Apart from the evidence from Canberra Television Ltd and the restaurant and catering trade organisation of New South Wales, we heard evidence from office bearers of local branches of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science, the National Parks Association, the Royal Australian Institute of Architects, the Australian Labor Party, and I think also the Australia Party. Among these representatives of organisations were very eminent, qualified and skilled people who had a professional point of view to put. 
I would like to make a lot of points in relation to this project but I will make just a few. It seems to me that some members of the House do not appreciate fully the alternatives to this Black Mountain tower. Canberra has unusual qualities about it. For example, outdoor television antennas are not allowed in Canberra; they are all indoors. There is an aesthetic standard here in Canberra which we would like to uphold. We were told that Black Mountain had certain advantages over other possible locations. First of all the trunk line facilities would be near to Civic Centre and Deakin and the future development of Belconnen. It is very important to locate such facilities close to those places, unless one is prepared to spend a lot more money. When one takes into consideration the needs of country towns for postal and television facilities one wonders just how much extra ought to be spent on Canberra. 
There is also the fact that 2 steel masts are already on Black Mountain anyway and not everybody regards them as having an aesthetic effect. Some people take the view that the proposed tower would have a more pleasing appearance anyhow. This location also has the advantage of being close to 2 television stations. Significantly, it was submitted to the Committee that the proposed tower would have the effect of eliminating the proliferation of communication structures around Canberra. Lots of people do not like towers on Red Hill, for example, which has one of the most pleasant mountain views in Canberra. If the Black Mountain proposal were proceeded with we would be able to get rid of a number of those structures. The Committee regarded that as being an offsetting consideration. 
Perhaps I should emphasise the technical factors involved in the proposal. The tower has been designed to accommodate not only television transmitting facilities but also radio-telephone apparatus. So far as the television transmitting facility is concerned, there are special characteristics in Canberra to which the Post Office has to pay very special regard. Because Canberra is spread around mountain outcrops and ranges it is important to ensure that there is a direct line of sight between each house and the television antennae. We were told that Black Mountain was the only place where this could be done sensibly. 
I said that I would speak for only about 5 minutes and that is all I will take, although I would like to take half an hour to discuss - this matter because many factors are involved. Finally!" the Committee was confronted with the proposition that if the tower was going to be on Black Mountain a number of massive installations would have to go into it. I want the House to appreciate that a $6m project is involved. It is to have a 3-floor base podium, parking for visitors and space for some equipment. There is to be a 641 feet tower of reinforced concrete on a circular shaft. There are to be 3 levels of technical equipment and we decided to add 2 levels for the public. From the 430 feet level there will be a lattice steel structure. The tower will incorporate a lookout, dining and refreshment facilities, including a rotating restaurant. The restaurant is designed to recoup some of the costs involved. If the things that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has talked about are really important, the best place to have the tower  is on Black Mountain and it seems to be sensible to set out to recoup some of the cost of constructing it. 
It is wrong for anyone to get the impression that this matter was not looked at with the benefit of expertise because it was. It is my opinion that the Committee has taken the right decision. I confess that I am not excited about putting a tower on Black Mountain. I would prefer it not necessary to be there. I have some sympathy for those people who regard the Burley Griffin plan as a sacred concept. I have taken a number of matters into account. It is possible that I have been too accommodating and compromised too much, but I feel that on balance the Committee has taken the decision that is in the interests of the people of Canberra as well as the people of the southern States who will benefit from the installation of an efficient radio television facility. I certainly feel that the Committee has taken the right decision from the standpoint of reticulating television throughout the Australian Capital Territory. 
It is difficult to deal with 3 matters. I think I will deal with only 2. I would like to refer to the Tennant Creek power station and the Tennant Creek primary and preschool. The Opposition is pleased that this development is coming to Tennant Creek, where there is a considerable area of deprivation among the people who live there. The power station to be provided is to cost $1. 8m. I think the significant thing to say about these 2 matters - that is, the power station and the school - is that the Public Works Committee has satisfied itself that the community is to be sustained and will grow in the future. At present I think it has a population of about 1,800 people with another 800 or 900 in the adjacent area. Substantially the town itself is dependent on the mining activities there. Honourable members will probably be aware that in this area there is gold, copper, bismuth and silver production which amounted in value to $50m over the last 4 years. It is now intended to build a new smelter at Tennant Creek, and when this happens the mining industry there will be one of the world's largest suppliers of bismuth metals. Four mines are operating, and it is a very virile area. A number of mining companies are involved in exploration. We are told that ore reserves amounting to more than 8 million tons have already been established. So it must be a justifiable proposition to build a new power station at Tennant Creek. 
The necessity for the power station emanates from the fact that the power station which has been in operation up to now is owned by the Peko company, which contracted in 1956 to meet the demand of Tennant Creek for 1,000 kilowatts of power. Peko now requires the power station for its own purposes and seeks to terminate the contract. It has been decided to terminate it by 1974. If it had been able, Peko would have made it available for a longer period. We are told that there is a considerable demand growth rate for power in Tennant Creek running at the rate of about 15 per cent per annum. We are also told that the proposal has been sensibly approached from the standpoint of all the environmental factors that are highlighted in discussions these days in that the power station is being put behind a number of hills south-west of the town and some distance away from the town in a position where the wind will blow the fumes away. There is to be no noise problem. So the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  at least will be gratified to know that this project has a clean bill of health and there do not seem to be any environmental problems about the Tennant Creek power station. 
There is no environmental problem about the Tennant Creek school either. A school is to be built to accommodate 210 infant school children, 340 primary school children and 50 pre-school children. It is interesting to note that the Commonwealth concedes this concept of an infant, primary and preschool for the Northern Territory. It would seem to me that the House could take note of this to good advantage because we are talking about pre-schools now in other debates. If we are to get value for money we should do what is being done at Tennant Creek and utilise school sites for preschool as well as other school activities. An interesting feature of this school, which ultimately will be developed to cater for 800 pupils, is that it involves the new concept of open space learning areas, the effect of which is that the school is grouped around the library hub. This is similar to the Wagaman primary school at Darwin which is being constructed and which will be open in 1973, the Nakara primary school which will be open in 1974, the Bradshaw primary school at Alice Springs which will be open in 1974 and the Wanguri and Tiwi schools at Darwin on which reports were submitted to the Parliament last July and which are in the process of construction. 
It is interesting that this concept of education is being provided under the auspices of the Commonwealth Government in Northern Territory towns. This is regarded as the contemporary, modern and efficient way of educating children. If we are able to do this in areas under the control of the Commonwealth we should be looking at the possibility of making funds available to the States so that they can do the same. I think this is all I need say. The Opposition is pleased that the people of Tennant Creek are to have the benefit of a new power station and a new school. We hope the work will be accomplished to a high standard and as expeditiously as possible. 
I understand that there is some reasonable time limitation in this debate. I intend to take only a few minutes. I think that the short debate that has taken place has been useful. It is interesting to note the newly found concern of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Bate)  for the northern part of his electorate, but I think the more significant factor about this debate is the failure of the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  to take part in the debate. The Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, has been giving a lead to the country  031  environment. It is amazing that he evolved from the Government and has gone past it. The Government has not caught up to him. At a conference of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science recently he said: 
When civilised mon looks out from the padded cell of urban life, what a destruction of the human environment he would see if only his eyes had not become too narrowly focused on his house, motor car, golf course, his cocktail bar and his television set. He would see a countryside despoiled, wild life being exterminated, vegetation withered, air and sea polluted, rivers made foul, green fields turned into rubbish dumps for old model cars, and the night and day made hideous by the blasphemous glare of uncontrolled noise. 
In many ways those expressions tally with the concern that has been evinced by the shadow Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who regrettably is not here today. He has made it very clear that an Australian Labor Party government will regard this matter as extremely important and entitled to a high priority. The PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan .Hulme)  talked of $5m to $6m as the difference in the cost of putting wires underground or above ground as though it was a great and significant matter. If the request had come from some of the friends of the Government he would be advocating that it be handed out willy nilly. This is a relatively infinitisemal amount of money in terms of the magnitude and volume of money handled by the Postmaster-General's Department. 
Shortly we will be hearing about one or 2 telephone exchanges. I have a recollection that the Woollongabba telephone exchange building will cost' about $6m or $7m. The equipment in most telephone exchanges is 6 or 7 times the cost of the exchange. So, at a place like Woollongabba one exchange can be worth $49m. If the Government is to say that $5m to $7m will deter us from putting cables underground, then it just shows that the Government suffers very seriously from a lack of a sensible, ordered set of priorities. The environment is a lot more important than the Postmaster-General has been prepared to concede in the discussion today. Why, the profits of the Postmaster-General's Department from the telephone section amounted to $59. 8m this year. If one starts to think of the great proliferation of wires that will take place as our population doubles in the next 30 years or so, one will come to realise that it is worth while carving $5m to $7m out of that amount for the purposes that have been specified. 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, it is so much cheaper to lay cables this way in new areas. I am surprised that the Minister has not indicated today some guide lines for the new Urban and Regional Development Authority that is to be established. It would be reasonable at least to say that whereas it might be expensive to put things underground in Collins St Melbourne or in George St, Sydney, in new communities about which there has been a lot of talk recently we will lay out our requirements as a department which has some concern with preservation of the environment. In Canberra there has been mention of the standards that prevail. We have been told that what are virtually land easements are provided at the back of properties. This is a commendable idea. It is upheld by the PostmasterGeneral's Department, by the electricity authority and probably others as well. I know that the aesthetic standards in Canberra are such that even external tele.vicion antennas are not allowed and householders must use internal antennas to prevent intrusion into the environment of a very unsatisfactory feature. The PostmasterGeneral has not quibbled about the tower that is to be erected on Black Mountain in Canberra with a view to ensuring that television beams can be projected effectively over Canberra in such a way as to avoid the necessity for external antennas for household television. 
The point I am making is that if these matters are important to the people who live on Commonwealth controlled territory, as they should be, they should be similarly important to the rest of the people of Australia. Many honourable members in the place have no enthusiasm about the attitude of the Commonwealth Government to the effect that it cares only about those who come under its direct responsibility. A Labor Government will spread the wealth and ensure that a decent set of priorities will apply to matters of this kind. I can understand the dilemma of the honourable member for Macarthur who is trying probably to squeeze a vote out of the situation by rushing in here in a state of panic to move for discussion of a matter of public importance 23 years late. I think he has done the Parliament a service in raising it. The city of Campbelltown, represents virtually a very significant part of the relief programme for Sydney. It is the place to which young people will be given the opportunity to go to to get out of the stinking, seething, sweltering city with all its muck, filth and pollution. It is the place in which it is reasonable to expect a young couple to rear children. 
We should set out to make Campbelltown a decent place. Canberra is our first example. Campbelltown easily can become the second. I believe that following the election results we will have a. representative for Macarthur who will be continuously assiduous in his representations for the needs of decent developmental and environmental standards for the people of Canberra, for the people of Campbelltown and, indeed, for the people of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has a decision been taken to relocate the regional office of the Department of Civil Aviation from its existing office accommodation at Waverton to a newlocation in the central business area at Goulburn Street, Sydney. 
If so, will the proposed move further contribute to parking, traffic and commuter congestion in the inner city area as some hundreds of public service personnel will be involved. 
What is (a) the area to be occupied at Goulburn Street, (b) the rent to be paid and (c) the precise location of the premises. 
Why is it considered desirable to relocate the regional office. 
Is suitable office accommodation available in the Chatswood area. 
What consideration was given to the principles of decentralisation when considering alternatives to the Waverton location. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Which credit unions were able to establish acceptability for their members' savings under the Homes Savings Grant Act subsequent to the 1970 amendments to that Act. 
Why are conditions imposed on savings held by credit unions while none are imposed on banks. 
Has or will consideration be given to removing these conditions. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What have been the total payments made to Vladamir Petrov, the Russian Embassy diplomatic defector, and his wife. 
What are the Commonwealth's remaining obligations to this couple. 
Is Petrov in the employ of the Commonwealth; if so, in what capacity. 
Has Petrov or his wife made application for naturalisation. 
Have either of them been naturalised; if so, where was the ceremony conducted and on what date. 
by leave - I join with my colleagues on the Public Works Committee in paying tribute to officers of the Department of Works for their submissions, and to the retiring Secretary of the Committee and his staff. It has been a busy year, as other speakers have said. Perhaps a more appropriate time to discuss the past and future roles of the Committee would be after the Committee has presented its annual report, a matter which is at present receiving its consideration. It has been said that the Committee dealt with 35 major inquiries in a year and over a period of 3 years handled references involving a total expenditure of about $407m. It is apparent that such activities make very heavy inroads into the time and work of members of the Committee. Obviously changes are required. Honourable members will be aware that any project involving expenditure of over $750,000 has' to be referred to the Public Works Committee. That limit may have to be raised to a more generous level, as the fust move. A second move may also be necessary. If work is to be pummelled through at the current rate more expertise should be made available to the Committee. It is interesting to note that the Public Works Committee at present may utilise expertise, but that has not been its habit. Far more advice will be required if the Committee is to keep up the pace in future. 
Consideration will have to be given to needs inquiries. On a number of occasions the Committee has had no alternative but to approve works because the Government has left the proposals too late for an alternative to be designed. A needs inquiry could be taken earlier, perhaps at the time the matter is first referred to the Cabinet. In that way many difficulties which the Committee now encounters could be obviated. I believe that members of the Committee have demonstrated a unique capacity to work together on many controversial matters and have rendered a useful service to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Why are savings held in cheque accounts, including interest-bearing cheque accounts, excluded from the definition of approved savings under the Homes Savings Grant Act. 
Has or will consideration be given to removing this anomaly. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice. 
Would most home buyers be unable to qualify for a grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act during the period that the $17,500 valuation limit operated due to the cost of a house and land exceeding this amount. 
What was the average cost of a house and land in each capital city or State during each of the last 5 years. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry a question concerning the Moomba-Sydney gas pipline. Will the cost of rust proofing, coating and laying this pipeline greatly exceed the price for supply and delivery? As the Japanese are making the pipes and a West German shipping company was yesterday awarded the contract to transport them, can an assurance be given that Australia's interests will be recognised by requiring contracts for rust proofing, coating and laying be awarded to Australian firms? 
by leave - I join in the tributes paid to the departmental officers especially for the manner in which they serviced the Joint Committee on Publications. The Committee has done what many people would regard as innocuous work. It is not the most demonstrative activity of the Parliament, nevertheless it is an essential service that the Committee has rendered. I regard the work that has been done in reviewing the lists of free publications as of significance. Regrettably it has been necessary to recommend increased prices in some cases, particularly for the Hansard service. In my mind one matter stands out. During the year the Committee has been most diligent in its endeavours to ensure that parliamentary publications are made available freely to the educational institutions. I was especially pleased to note that the institutes of technology and the colleges of advanced education were to receive treatment by way of supply of literature similar to the treatment universities enjoy. 
I entered the chamber during the presentation of the report by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin).  It is apparent, as the Committee has mentioned in its report, that it will be necessary to ensure that stronger efforts are made to print more material in Australia than has been the case up to the present, particularly by several departments which I need not enumerate. Occasionally the Australian printing industry experiences difficulties and it is inexcusable that so much work has been printed in other parts of the world. The Committee has recommended that those departments which have been responsible for having material printed overseas should make every possible effort to serve Australia's best interests - I think that was the terminology used in the report - by having this work done in Australia. 
At the last meeting of the Committee today I told the  Chairman  that he had found his right niche in his parliamentary life as  Chairman  of the Committee. If he returns after the election it is quite likely that he will not be able to occupy the position as  Chairman,  that position usually being occupied by a member of the Government, but I have no doubt that in the event of his being returned to the Parliament he will continue as an effective member of the Committee making a worthwhile contribution to its work. 
The House is dealing with 12 reports presented by the Public Works Committee. The one referred to by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is No. 12 on the Daily Programme. 1 think I should make some comment before 1 refer to it. When these 12 reports are disposed of only 2 reports will remain to be presented to the Parliament. One concerns the Commonwealth office block to be erected in Woolloomooloo, and I hope that report will never be brought before the Parliament. The other one concerns the Palmerston Freeway in Darwin, which is a matter of very serious concern. 1 just want to take this opportunity to say that it is my belief that in respect of that bit of unfinished business the Parliament and the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  might be well advised to have another good look at it from the standpoint of possibly reopening the inquiry, because it so happens that the land which will be affected is owned by people who had no idea that they were likely to be affected. I know that today a representative of the people of Darwin who are concerned about this matter is here in Canberra, and 1 hope that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  will be able to see him for a few minutes to hear the views of these people because, as I say, there is widespread concern - in my view it is justifiable concern - to such an extent that the reopening of that inquiry is justified. 
The matters referred to by the honourable member for Griffith concern the Woolloongabba Telephone Exchange. The project is a major augmentation of Brisbane's telecommunication facilities. The existing facilities are fast approaching full utilisation. It is true, as the honourable gentleman has said, that this is a very large scale project, ft is an extremely costly one. Of course, the capital cost of the building is one matter: the cost of the equipment is another. I cannot recall the cost of the equipment which will be going into this building, but sometimes the equipment in a telephone exchange can have a ratio to the cost of the building of 6 to 1 or 7 to I. 
The Minister informs me that it is generally 3 to 1. But we know that there have been occasions when the ratio has been a lot higher. So we have a very expensive project on hand. I agree with a great deal of what the honourable member for Griffith said. I am not prepared to recommend to the Opposition, if my recommendation counts for anything, that we should support him in his amendment because 1 think there is a bit of political play in the matter. I think that the Committee already has effectively made the points that it has been necessary to make. In any case. 1 think the situation in the Brisbane area will become quite serious soon and I would not want to be a party to contributing to the delay in the augmentation of that telephone service, lt is not just a matter of local reticulation. This is the tandem system; it involves facilitation of the STD process and trunk call systems between the Stale of Queensland and other parts of Australia. So it is a very important matter with which the honourable member is trifling. I hope that he has taken proper account of what 1 regard to be the diligent approach on the part of the Public Works Committee. Just to put my own situation beyond the bounds of ambiguity, 1 will read part of the evidence given to the Committee on this matter. When the Post Office representative was before the Committee and we were talking about the need to acquire additional land I said to  Mr Barwick: 
Quite frankly, I find the proposition completely appalling, and at the present stage, if we were taking decisions on this, I would be inclined to recommend that more land should be made available for these 2 purposes. Would you like to disabuse me of the prejudices I have in this regard? Or can any evidence be brought to bear that the  experts have considered this and have established that my misgivings are unfounded, and that they are not concerned about it? 
He went on at some length but started by saying: 
I  could not say that we are not concerned. 
There are pages and pages of evidence devoted to this matter. It is evidence which was sought, I think, by each of the members of the Committee. In the report specific mention was made of the need for additional land. In one of its recommendations the Committee said: 
We were informed that as the opportunity occurs the Post Office intends to purchase adjoining property to improve the site amenity, and to augment the car parking area. Because the Committee believed that it is important to improve the setting of the building and the amenity of its immediate environment, including car parking, we recommend that a more positive approach be adopted and that the Post Office acquire additional land adjacent to the new complex for these purposes. 
More precise mention was made about this matter in the recommendations. Recommendation No. 6 states: 
The Post Office should acquire additional land adjacent to the new complex to improve the setting of the building and the amenity of its immediate environment, including car parking. 
If the honourable member for Griffith is at all fair dinkum about this I think he would readily concede that the Committee was more than conscientious in its application to the problem. Let me tell him that if he thinks that the role of the Public Works Committee is to knock back every project which features some conceptual vacuum on the part of the Government, we would never build anything. There are very many occasions on which I disagree with the Government's approach to matters. Many of the 12 matters which are now before us, in my view, should not have come to the Committee in the form that they have. But I cannot spend my time as a member of the Public Works Committee knocking back everything the Government puts up. The project under consideration might be a rehabilitation centre, an Air Force base or an airport somewhere. We would have no rehabilitation centres, no civil airports or Air Force bases and all the rest of it if we knocked back everything that was not properly approached by the Government. I am very concerned that so many proposals are half baked and lack modern contemporary attitudes and thinking. 
So far as the Woolloongabba Telephone Exchange is concerned, it is absurd to have a IS storey building on such a miserable piece of land. The Commonwealth has a responsibility to set an example in relation to these matters, and it has not done it. Should the Public Works Committee cause great delays in telephone traffic in the State of Queensland because of that? [ think all that we can do in sweet reason is to say: We regard the site as insufficient and you ought to get more land.' This is precisely what we have done. After all, 1,100 officers will occupy this site. 
The Committee knocked back one proposal - the Woolloomooloo Commonwealth offices which was worth about $55m. That was another example of governmental stupidity. The Government intended to crowd into a little peninsula of land some 15,000 employees, which was the height of absurdity and the antithesis of decentralisation and all of the things we have been talking about. But how many proposals can a committee of this kind knock back? We do not want to cause the public undue inconvenience, and the public would be inconvenienced if we knocked back this telephone exchange proposal. It would be delayed for many months. The honourable member for Griffith would probably be the first to stand up in this Parliament - assuming that he will be back in the next Parliament - asking for some acceleration of the programme so that the people he represents can have telephone services. So that is the problem. I do not want the honourable member to feel that the Committee has failed to face up to its responsibilities in relation to it. The Government has failed to face up to its responsibilities. But this point has been made in the recommendations of the Committee, and that is why it is not necessary for us to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Griffith. 
It is true that land is available from the Methodist Church and the doctor's property. We were told that the Commonwealth has no inclination to acquire compulsorily any person's land, and that is a worthy objective. Nevertheless, I think all honourable members will readily concede that the public interest is paramount. There have been many occasions when all of us have stood for the acquisition of privately held land because of this. I think the doctor has been there for a long time. Maybe the Methodist Church property and the German Club property are involved. A telephone exchange cannot be put up on any site. Regard must be had to the expensive cabling and copper centre, whatever that is. A telephone exchange has to go in a particular place, and this one had to go on this particular site. In the public interest we ought to acquire additional land, and the Committee has made recommendations towards that end. 
I want to talk on a number of these proposals. I would like to make some reference to the Royal Australian Air Force base at Amberley. I do not have to say very much about it because the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has covered a lot of the ground. Sufficient for me to say that it is a very important Air Force base. Nevertheless, there are a few matters that deserve some attention. I think the point made by the honourable member for Dawson was that in addition to provision being made to accommodate the new helicopter squadron which will be based there, it is intended to replace the Phantom squadron with the F111C strike aircraft which at last is coming to Australia. I think it was ordered about 10 years ago and is now many years late. 
The planes are to come in 1973 - at great expense. They will now cost us about $300m for the squadron of 24 - close to $13m each. The price started at about SI. 5m each. This purchase is called, is it not, Australia's flying opera house? However, the planes are coming and we are making provision for them, which is a very good thing. We were told that the Phantom, which the Fill is to replace, has been accommodated at Amberley in hangars which are of the igloo type, built during World War 2. Phantoms are very expensive - about $4m each. The evidence before the Committee was to the effect that these hangars were unsafe in winds stronger than 45 miles an hour. We were told also that on a number of occasions the base has recorded winds up to 65 knots. It is true that when these winds exceed 45 miles an hour the aircraft are taken out of the hangars. 
This is very relevant, because we are proposing to build new hangars to replace the igloo type hangars. That point becomes more important as I go on. They are so inadequate now that the Phantoms, costing $4m each, are wheeled out into the open when they should be under shelter. They are put out in the wind and tied to the ground with sandbags attached to stop them blowing away. All of this is in the official evidence. We propose to provide hangars for the Fill aircraft which are worth about $13m each, but the regrettable part is that we are to supply the hangars terribly late. For a long time there will be no hangars at Amberley capable of protecting the Fill aircraft. We will have 24 of them, but they are not all put under shelter. As all honourable members would understand, these aircraft have to be serviced from time to time. They do not have the best of safety records up to now and they need a lot of attention and overhaul. When they are wheeled into these igloo hangars they will be subjected to extreme danger - $13m aircraft in shelters that could be blown over in a 45 mile an hour wind. 
We are told that the hangars will come in the second phase of the programme. The Fills are to come in the middle of next year and the hangars are to come in stage 2 of the programme. It will be a total of 40 months before this phase is completed, so it will be close to  3i  years before the Fill strike aircraft will have any adequate shelter at Amberley. I regard this as an indication of lack of planning on the Government's part. It is another major blunder associated with the Fill aircraft. The aircraft were ordered on the eve of an election campaign and now, on the eve of another election campaign, we are proposing to build shelters for them. But the shelters will come more than 3 years later than they should. I believe that this represents very serious irresponsibility on the part of the Government. 
I appreciate the Minister's action in granting me an extension of time. I must not labour the point but I think that the Minister will concede that it is a good point that these $300m aircraft should be adequately housed. I think the people of Australia will be alarmed that for 3i years the aircraft will be without shelter or put in hangars which we know can be blown over in a wind stronger than 45 miles an hour. I will not press that matter further. 
The work on the Townsville Royal Air Force Base involves a complex of developmental proposals. At this base some 695 officers and 34 civilians are working on a site covering 420 acres. We propose to add to that another 340 acres. Townsville is an interesting situation in that it is a joint user aerodrome for both the RAAF and the Department of Civil Aviation. The proposals involve $8m. Generally, they incorporate the provision of new aprons, parking, refuelling and telecommunications facilities, ground equipment maintenance facilities, a new motor transport section and lots of other very significant matters associated with the running of this air base. I have little quibble with this proposal except that it seems to me that there should be more co-operation on the part of the Commonwealth Government - this was revealed in the evidence given to the Committee - about noise abatement and examination into the effect that extensions to this airport will have on the Townsville community. It is back to front that the Committee should get a proposal about the extension of any airport without having the benefit of advice from a noise abatement committee. We were told that this committee, which involves the co-operation of the Commonwealth, has not yet gone into operation. 
The second matter that gives concern is that through lack of foresight and planning a sewage treatment plant built at Townsville just 3 years ago - it is not yet in commission and is worth $lm - will have to be resited. As I understand it, 3 years ago the Commonwealth had a long range objective to implement improvements to the Townsville Air Force Base. I know I will ne corrected if I am wrong, and I see the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee now shaking his head. The sewage treatment plant was built 3 years ago at a cost of  Sim,  and planning should have been sufficiently far sighted to have prevented the wasting of $lm. 
I refer now to the Port Moresby Commonwealth offices. The proposal to build the offices at a cost of  S  1.65m was the subject of a very interesting inquiry. It will accommodate a number of government departments. Papua New Guinea shortly will become a sovereign State and obtain independence. In that country, as in all others. Australia will need to have a chancery. Again, this matter could involve wholesale wasting of public money because of the lack of anticipation on the Commonwealth Government's part. The taxpayers will be up for only  Si.  65m. We are to build this particularly large scale building of 3 podium levels and 9 upper floors containing 41,400 square feet of space. But this is not the chancery Australia will need to have eventually. The proposal is for a temporary chancery. We are in such a rush, because of our lack of anticipation, that we plan to copy a building which is already in Port Moresby - the ANG building. We had to seek approval from the owners and designers of that building to emulate the design for our temporary building so that we can be one of the first countries to have a chancery in Port Moresby. We will then hope to high Heaven that when the time comes to get rid of the temporary chancery, which is to cost  Si.  65m, we will be able to find a buyer for it. There is speculation among members of the Committee that it could become the first substantial white elephant and perhaps the greatest white elephant in the h:story of Papua New Guinea. It is quite conceivable that there will be no buyer for the temporary building we are erecting. 
Why has the Government failed to anticipate the independence of Papua New Guinea? We should have been at work designing a building for Papua New Guinea several years ago. There was no lack of anticipation by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the coming independence. There was none on the part of the Labor Opposition. If there had been a Labor Government we would not be putting up a temporary building in Port Moresby now. 
We would be providing a permanent chancery. 1 express regret at another manifestation of the Government's inadequacy on a very important matter. The Port Moresby airport is another matter and so is the airport at Nadzab for Lae. The main point I want to make is that a lot of land has to be acquired. In the case of Port Moresby it is 1,170 acres. It has to be acquired from native ownership and it seems to me that we are not going about it in an intelligent way and we are not consulting the people properly. 
I wanted to talk about the repatriation hospital at Brisbane and the Kingsholme and Camperdown rehabilitation centres. In my view, in each case the Government is doing the wrong thing. The Committee has recommended approval but the Government should accept the advice of expert committees on the location of rehabilitation centres in regional hospitals around Australia instead of establishing opera house type buildings in the capital cities. A rehabilitation centre in Brisbane is not much good for you if you live in Townsville or Mount Isa. A Senate committee has recommended that the centres should be dispersed around the country in regional hospitals. Why is it that the Government refuses to heed the expert advice of the committees it has appointed to inquire into such important matters? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the (a) description and (b) quantity of radioactive waste disposed of from Lucas Heights Atomic Research Establishment. 
Where is the disposal area for this waste and what is the method of disposal. 
What containers or protective encasements are used to prevent contamination. 
How is the disposal area rendered secure. 
What is the estimated contamination life of the waste. 
Is any radioactive waste from the Lucas Heights Establishment dumped at sea; if so, what are the particulars. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Do some Aboriginal men in the Northern Territory pursue a custom of taking promised girls as child brides. 
If so, what is the official altitude of the Northern Territory Administration to this practice. 
Is it an offence for an Aboriginal male to have carnal knowledge of a young Aboriginal girl in the Northern Territory. 
What carnal knowledge prosecutions have been preferred against Aboriginal males practising the child bride custom during each of the last 5 years. 
What protection is extended to girls so exploited. 
What are the legal obligations of an Aboriginal male whose relationship with a young Aboriginal girl results in the birth of a child. 
Is the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration taking any action to discourage the child bride practice; if so, what are the details and when will the Administration invoke the appropriate laws against offenders. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Did  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Forster in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory recently find an adult made Aboriginal, ' named Leon Puruntatameri, guilty of a -carnal knowledge offence against a 12 year old. girl at Bathurst Island. 
Was the defendant placed on a 2 year good behaviour bond. 
Was there any evidence to . indicate that the leniency of this sentence was influenced by the fact that the child may have been promised in marriage to the defendant. 
Is the practice of taking promised girls as child brides still practised by the . Aboriginal community at Bathurst Island. 
Are charges usually preferred against men who have relations with juveniles who are promised brides or is special dispensation from the laws in the Northern Territory extended to Aboriginal men who follow this tribal custom. 
In the case referred to, was  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Forster entitled to come to any conclusion, other than that prescribed by the laws of the Northern Territory, because of any belief he may have had that the circumstances of the offence emanated from or were related to Aboriginal customs. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Has it been established that people in many callings and professions including the Police Force, the Armed Services, the ministry and the teaching service are often excluded from qualifying for a grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act because the nature of their profession is such that its members are precluded from acquiring a permanent home until after reaching the age of 36 years. 
If so, has consideration been given to removing the age barrier in respect of cases where the disadvantage can be properly established. 
I have read of the claim by the Victorian Minister for Housing to the effect that it is intended by way of the proposed Commonwealth-State housing agreement to prevent the provision of homes in country areas. I think the Minister may have, derived this understanding from the Commonwealth's declared intention to guide the States in making homes available to needy people and I think he has based his reaction on our proposed criteria, for instance, that the people who should be provided with a housing commission home are those who have an income representing 80 per cent or less of average weekly earnings. It is also proposed that rentals should not exceed 23 per cent of earnings and that special allowances should be made in respect of dependent people. 
There is no intention at all on the part of the Government to discourage the provision of housing commission homes in country areas. 
In. fact, it is the firm intention of this Government to provide special encouragement in that regard. I have, noted that a number of the State Housing Ministers believe that it is necessary to provide some extra latitude for the purpose of encouraging the employment of key personnel in remote or developing areas. This applies especially to Western Australia, Queensland and South Australia and, to some extent, in Victoria. The attitude of the Victorian Minister is completely without foundation, but I must say that his misplaced attitude on this matter is not in isolation. There seems to be a great deal of misunderstanding on his part. I hope that the impetuous nature of his statement does not have the effect of prejudicing the intention of the Australian Government to negotiate a new Commonwealth-State housing agreement, the basic purpose of which is to make a lot more money available for housing at lower rates of interest with the object of eliminating as quickly as we can that great backlog of housing applications which has now reached the astronomical figure of 93,000 in Australia. This is the legacy of housing which the new Government has inherited. We are dissatisfied with the position and intend doing something about it, I hope with the cooperation of the Victorian Government and the Victorian Housing Minister. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work upon which the Public Works Committee has duly reported to Parliament should be again referred to the committee for further consideration and report having regard to the strong public reactions to various aspects of this project some of which were not voiced at the time of the public hearing in Darwin last year: Proposed construction of the Palmerston arterial road at Darwin. 
The Committee reported that provision of a second arterial road between the city area and the northern suburbs of Darwin was warranted. It recommended that portions of the road should follow the route proposed by the sponsoring authorities but that an alternative route should be followed between Coconut Grove and Ross Smith Avenue. Since the Committee's report was tabled there have been a number of representations by various people for and against the route recommended by the Committee. I understand that when a decision was made different from that which was expected to be made a number of people who came to be affected indicated that they had had no knowledge of the likelihood of such a development affecting their properties. In addition to this there was the added consideration that the organisation of surveyors in the Northern Territory had not had the opportunity of presenting views which they subsequently regarded as significant. Since the Committee's report was tabled there have been quite a variety of representations from a large number of people against the proposal recommended by the Committee. In these circumstances the Government feels that the Committee should be asked to give further consideration to the proposal and submit a further report to Parliament. 
I am pleased that this question has been put to me by the honourable member for Melbourne because this matter has been the subject of considerable controversy and, as I understand it, was also the subject of debate in the Victorian Parliament yesterday. One of the early actions taken by the Government was in respect of the very great waiting list for houses in the various State housing authorities throughout Australia. It was felt that in consideration of the fact that  93,000  people were waiting on this long and extending queue an emergency grant should be made to the States. Towards that end a decision was taken to allocate S6m to enable the States to build houses for rental by the end of June this year. There has been some difficulty, apparently, between the Premier of Victoria and the Housing Minister of Victoria in respect of whether or not the conditions of the Commonwealth's offer should be accepted. The position now seems to be that although the Victorian Minister indicated earlier that he would not accept the grant if any conditions at all were attached, he has been overruled by the Premier of that State. 
I have been very pleased to have an assurance from the Premier, which was received through the Prime Minister, that the Victorian Government is now happy to participate in this program which was designed to facilitate the commencement of 1,500 homes by the beginning of July this year. In fact he has been able to say in a completely unequivocal manner that that State will now go on to isolate our special grant to ensure that the houses are built for rental purposes. We are very anxious to build up a stock of rental homes. He has been able to say that it is the intention of the Victorian Government now to build houses for rental. Some of these will be built in country areas. In addition he will be using a large part of Victoria's allocation of $1.5m to build homes for pensioners. So in regard to this matter, about which there has been so much talk, it seems to me now that the Victorian Government is happy to comply and has come to appreciate the need for the conditions which were proposed by the Commonwealth. 
The whole question with which I am dealing is a very dicky matter. It is our intention to finalise later a Commonwealth-State housing agreement with the States. The House might be interested to know that it has been my intention to set up a consultative process with the States of a type which has never been undertaken before. In a consultative process, where one participates in several rounds of talks at very great length with Ministers of the States and their advisers, it is a sensible stance to take that one should be prepared to moderate one's views, having had the benefit of the attitudes expressed by the various State Ministers. I am very pleased to say that it so happens now that we have been able to develop an agreement which I believe will be enticing to Victoria and indeed to all other States and which, if accepted by Victoria, will contribute a great deal to the solution of this very serious, neglected problem. If the Commonwealth has its way, we will bring down an agreement which will be responsible for the construction of a large number of homes at lower rates of interest and those homes will be allocated to people who are most in need as determined by a means test. All of these matters seem to me to be of virtuous principle and I hope that I will have the acquiescence of the Victorian Government in the second stage of our endeavours. I am gratified to learn from the Premier of that State the acceptance of the $1.5m Commonwealth offer. 
Commonwealth Hostels Ltd controls about 30 establishments, 13 of which are migrant hostels. I understand that at present, of a total capacity of about 12,000 beds, hostels have a bed occupancy of about 50 per cent. Recently I have had discussions with my colleague, the Minister for Immigration, about the future needs of his Department for Commonwealth hostel accommodation. He has indicated to me that by the end of this financial year Commonwealth Hostels Ltd will be utilising approximately 8,000 beds. He went on to inform me in a letter which I received today that he is contemplating a variety of forms of use of Commonwealth hostels which have not been innovated previously. He also went on to indicate that in, I think, 1974-75 there is likely to be maximum demand on the facilities of Commonwealth Hostels Ltd. 
The concern of the honourable member for Mitchell about the waiting list with the Housing Commission of New South Wales is appreciated, there being 43,000 people on the waiting list in that State and 26,000 waiting in Sydney. All I can say to him is that if it becomes apparent that there will be an enduring availability of Commonwealth hostel accommodation, this Government will make certain that it is effectively utilised for important purposes. Among the purposes we would be prepared to take into account are the needs of aged people, emergency accommodation needs generally, student accommodation and possibly the needs of Aboriginal people seeking rehabilitation. But, in any case, if it becomes apparent that beds will be available they will be used. I hope that satisfies the honourable member. There is no indication at this stage, although the review is continuing, that we will have a long term incidence of unused Commonwealth hostel facilities. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has 4 main purposes. In the first place it provides for the extension of the war service homes scheme to members of the forces who complete a specified period of defence service. Secondly, it provides for an increase in the maximum loan under the scheme from $9,000 to $12,000. It also provides for war service homes benefits to be granted to certain unmarried female persons with qualifying service under the Act. The fourth main purpose is to correct an existing anomaly in the war service homes legislation by providing for the extension of eligibility to certain persons who served overseas with the Australian forces in the 1939-45 War or in the subsequent war-like operations as an accredited representative of a welfare organisation. 
In addition to these significant changes, the Bill includes  a  number of other amendments which are designed to facilitate the adminis tration of the War Service Homes Act. As honourable members will be aware, the war service homes scheme was originally introduced as a repatriative measure to provide homes for returned men and women from the 1914-18 War. The scheme was later extended to cover the 1939-45 War and the subsequent war-like operations involving Australian forces. Since the inception of the scheme eligibility in respect of service in the forces has been based on a period of service abroad involving operational risks beyond those normally associated with peace-time service. The provisions of this Bill will extend the scope of the scheme henceforth to include as qualifying service a continuous period of normal peace-time service of substantial duration. Persons who will benefit from this proposed extension of the scope of the scheme are those members of the forces on continuous full-time service on or after 7th December 1972 who, whether before or after that date, complete 3 years effective fulltime service. A person who was engaged or appointed for a period of full-time service of not less than 3 years but who is discharged on medical grounds before the completion of 3 years service will also qualify, unless the member was discharged before the completion of 12 months effective service for a preexisting medical condition. Effective service for the purposes of the proposed new eligibility provisions is defined in the Bill. 
The Bill has special provisions dealing with persons undergoing a course of training at the. Royal Australian Naval College, the Royal Military College or the Royal Australian Air Force Academy and persons appointed as officers while enrolled in a degree or diploma course at a university or other tertiary institution. In effect, persons undergoing a course of training at a naval, military or Air Force college will not qualify for benefits unless they successfully complete their course of training. Persons commissioned under the undergraduate scheme will not qualify until they have given 3 years effective service following the completion of their studies. In accordance with existing arrangements under the War Service Homes Act persons who meet the eligibility conditions but are given a dishonourable discharge will not be eligible for benefits. 
The Bill also provides for the extension of war service homes benefits to national servicemen and national service officers serving immediately before 7th December 1972 who complete the period of service for which they were engaged to serve or are discharged on medical grounds prior to the completion of that service. The proposed extension of the scope of the scheme to include a continuous period of normal peace-time service of substantial duration as qualifying service represents the most significant change in the scheme since the enactment of the original legislation in 1918. It has been brought about because of the Government's decision to abolish conscription into the armed forces and to fulfil its stated aim of introducing conditions of service that will attract and retain regular servicemen in peace time. We believe that the way to attract and retain regular servicemen is to guarantee that they and their dependants will enjoy, both during and after their service, a living standard which is on a par with civilians of the same age. Because of the itinerant nature of his occupation a regular serviceman is at a considerable disadvantage relative to other members of the community in acquiring a permanent home. Frequent postings make it difficult for him to obtain housing finance from established home lending institutions. As a result, upon discharge, be is faced with the task of financing his home at a greater cost and over a shorter period. 
The granting of war service homes benefits to regular servicemen on the conditions already mentioned will do much to offset the disadvantages inherent in Service life in relation to the acquisition of a permanent home. At the same time this measure will afford practical recognition of the significant contribution made to national defence by servicemen who undertake full-time Service commitments of a substantial duration. As we consider this measure an essential one in our program to improve service conditions we feel as a matter of equity that it should also be extended to those national servicemen serving at 6th December 1972 who voluntarily chose to complete the period of service for which they were originally enlisted. The retention of those young men who chose to remain is seen as valuable in the transition from a partly conscripted army to an all volunteer force. To reflect more aptly the type of service which will constitute qualifying service under the scheme upon the enactment of this legislation, the Bill provides for. the title of the Principal Act to be amended to 'Defence Services Homes Act 1918-1973'. As a consequential amendment, the name of the body corporate established by the Act will be changed from Director of War Service Homes to Director of Defence Service Homes. 
I come now to the provision made in this Bill for an increase in the maximum loan. The present statutory maximum loan of $9,000 covered less than 60 per, cent of the average cost of all homes built or financed under the scheme last financial year. While some credit-worthy applicants are able to supplement their loan under the Act with a secondary loan from a private . lender at a high rate of interest, it is difficult, and in many cases impossible, for the ordinary wage earner to finance a home on the basis of a maximum loan of $9,000. It is our stated aim to increase the maximum lending limit under the scheme to enable loans to- be made up to 100 per cent of the value of properties against which advances are made. In furtherance of this aim, this Bill provides for an increase in the maximum loan to $12,000 and for a reduction in the deposit required in respect of a home sold to an eligible person under Part IV of the Act. 
The proposed extension of eligibility to unmarried female persons who have qualifying service under the Act is designed primarily to benefit single and widowed nurses and exservicewomen without dependants who served overseas with the forces in the 1939-45 War. 
As the Act stands at present eligibility for benefits is limited, broadly speaking, to persons who are married, about to marry or who have dependants for whom it is necessary for them to maintain a home. This is in accordance with the purpose of the scheme to provide homes for eligible persons with families. However, we consider that there is a strong case on the social welfare grounds for exempting female persons with qualifying service under the Act from this requirement. In the majority of cases the nurses and ex-servicewomen who will benefit from the provision have given meritorious war service overseas. They are now approaching retirement and usually have no family to whom they may turn for a home. Ordinarily they would not qualify for housing accommodation under any of the public housing schemes of the States and they find it difficult to obtain a housing loan from institutional lenders on account of their age and sex. The scheme has always provided that the widow of an eligible person will be eligible for war service homes benefits and this is the case whether she has dependants or not. We feel that there is equal justification for granting benefits to single and widowed nurses and ex-servicewomen without dependants who have the necessary qualifying service under the Act. 
The proposed extension of benefits to members of welfare organisations who served overseas with the Forces will correct an injustice which has been allowed to exist for far too long. When the War Service Homes Act was enacted in 1918, provision was made for the granting of benefits to members of the Young Men's Christian Association who were accepted for service and served abroad with the Naval or Military Forces of Australia as representatives of that Association. However, no comparable provision was made when the Act was amended in 1941 to cover the hostilities which commenced in 1939. During the 1939-45 War representatives of welfare organisations served in such areas as North Africa, Greece, Crete, Papua, New Guinea, Malaya and Singapore and there were many casualties including some who died on service or became prisoners of war. Honourable members will agree I am sure that it is only equitable that they should be eligible for benefits on the same basis as members of the Forces and the Bill makes provision accordingly. 
Other amendments include an extension of the definition of 'holding' which will enable a loan to be granted in respect of any land which an applicant is purchasing from a State on terms that entitle him on compliance with specified conditions to a grant in fee simple of the land where he satisfies the Director that he has a reasonable prospect of complying with those conditions. A provision has also been included which will empower the Director to grant a maximum repayment term of 50 years to all female dependants as defined in the Act who are eligible for assistance under the Act. 
The Bill includes also a provision which will empower the Director to call up a loan where after the loan has been made available it comes to the knowledge of the Director that the purchaser or borrower or that person's wife or husband as the case may be, was, at the time the loan was granted, the owner of another dwelling house. Sections 19a and 23 of the Act provide that assistance shall not be made available to any applicant unless the Director is satisfied that neither the applicant nor wife or husband (if any) of that person is the owner of any other dwelling house. There is an appreciable number of cases arising where it is established after a loan has been granted that although the applicant at the time he applied for the loan declared that neither he nor his wife were the owners of another dwelling house, either he or his wife did in fact own another dwelling house at that time and he or she still retains ownership of that home. A power for the Director to call up a loan in such circumstances is essential in order that he may enforce the requirements of the Act. 
Other minor amendments include provision for the reinstatement as a tenant, a person whose tenancy has previously been determined under the provisions of the Act and provisions under which a defaulting purchaser or borrower may be called upon to meet the expenses incurred by the Commonwealth in obtaining a warrant of possession. The Bill also contains a number of provisions relating to the administration of the war service homes insurance scheme, including a provision empowering the director to reinsure his contingent liabilities under insurances effected in accordance with the Act and to use the funds of the war service homes insurance trust account to make contributions to the cost of maintaining fire brigade services. 
Honourable members will appreciate from the summary I have given that this Bill embraces a wide range of matters, some of which will effect significant changes in the nature and the scope of the existing war service homes scheme. Since the scheme commenced in 1919 it has played a very significant role in the development of our nation with more than 330,000 persons having been assisted to become home owners. The enactment of this legislation will ensure that the scheme will go on making its important contribution to the national welfare by enabling eligible persons in all parts of the Commonwealth to obtain a home of their own. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 There has not been such a pathetic, pedantic and puerile discussion of a matter of public importance raised by any Opposition for decades. I suppose that this instance shows the discredited state of the new Opposition, left without a feather to fly with and skirting around on the edge of an issue which does not produce anything of consequence from the standpoint of newsworthiness. The matter is based on pure assumption; it is completely void .of any fact, any happening or reference to any historical event. In every sense it represents a complete figment of the imagination and it is incredible that in these days when there are so many constructive issues on which an Opposition can be effective we should have honourable members .of such considerable status in the Opposition taking up the time of the Parliament on such a pathetic matter. I believe they ought to be disparaged and that the public will identify them as being petty in their approach to the parliamentary affairs of this country. What has happened this morning simply demonstrates the antipathy of leading members of the Opposition to the trade union movement of Australia. Because the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  in another place has indicated that under his administration consideration will be given to those firms which have sensible relations with trade unions we find those leading Opposition members intent on demonstrating their spleen and their hostility. Every step taken and every utterance made by the Minister for Works has been designed to achieve the best results on behalf of the people of this country in relation to public works. 
It is true that we are working in a very expensive area in public works - some $3 00m a year is involved, I am told by previous speakers. That is why the Parliament has always upheld the idea that this sphere of activity should be under the scrutiny of a parliamentary public works committee and these days the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works is inquiring into 30 to 35 references a year. All public works valued at over $750,000 have to be subjected to the scrutiny of the Public Works Committee and there has been no dissent from the proposition that that should be so. This Government when in Opposition faithfully participated in the Public Works Committee process and was intent on ensuring that every possible ventilation and exposure was given to everything associated with public works. Is there anything at all that was inherent in or resulted from the attitude of this Government when in Opposition which would indicate that it would want to clothe in mystery any activities of the Department of Works? Of course not. 
This Government wants to make certain that the people and the Government of Australia get value for money. The old-fashioned washed-up attitudes and ideas of the previous Government were not achieving that result. This Government wants to make certain that we get performance from contractors, that we get good workmanship and that jobs are finished on time. It is saying in effect that strife ridden companies need not tender for public works in Australia. We want companies which have good relations with unions participating in public works. We do not want companies to be racing in and out of the Commonwealth Industrial Court or the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission getting determinations in such a way as will cause delays and bring about an aggravation of the cost factor in public works contracts. Of course, the sensible thing, and it is accepted by sensible people but apparently not by some leading members of the Opposition, these days is to effect decent relationships between employees and employers. The days of the master and butler have gone and the sooner it is realised by Opposition members that we will not have trade unionists pushed around any longer the better it will be for everyone concerned. In fact it would be contrary to the national interest for this Government to take the attitude that has been espoused here this morning by the Opposition. 
Let me show in a pretty accurate way just how the attitude of the Opposition is out of date with contemporary attitudes. For example, is it realised that the International Labour Organisation convention No. 94 lays down a criterion which subscribing governments are expected to uphold and comply with to the effect that public contracts should have regard to union conditions? Apparently this has not been treated as important by the Opposition, the former Government for 23 years. The ILO convention makes it a requirement on the nations subscribing that proper regard should be had to industrial conditions of the kind which have been laid down by the Minister for Works in respect of the matter which is currently the subject of the debate. Is it realised that 31 countries uphold the idea that the Minister for Works has espoused? Is it realised that it is time the Australian Government followed belatedly, and that is the case, in the footsteps of these 31 countries which have been doing for many years what the Minister has been saying we should be doing? In the United Kingdom as far back as 1912 the House of Commons adopted a resolution upholding convention 94 and the United States of America emulated the United Kingdom example many years ago. Why is it that these matters have been overlooked in Australia? 
Of course there are winds of change blowing in respect of this and so many other significant areas of Government activity. This Government will stand firmly on the premise that it believes it is a good thing to set out to get value for money and to have co-operative employees and co-operate employers working together. The Minister for Works has never made the point that he will be heavy handed in respect of this matter. Let me repeat in precise terms what he has said. Maybe previous Opposition speakers have not had a good look at the situation but this is what the Minister said: 
As to my intention to replace the Director-General as the approving authority for contracts, even under the previous Minister for Works- that is,  Senator Wright-  some contracts of a certain value had to be approved by the Minister. That remains the case. Contracts of a greater value win be approved with complete co-operation and agreement between my DirectorGeneral and myself. 
Who could quibble with such a co-operative attitude? It is obvious that the Mnister should be prepared to take responsibility. It was interesting to hear the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  say that we have not always upheld the criteria that have been talked about here today by the Opposition. It is interesting to note that in respect of the painting contract at the Army camps in the north of Western Australia a tender of $38,900 was submitted but the tender accepted was for $79,475. It is interesting also to look at the Ludmilla school contract for the erection of additional classrooms. Here the lowest tender was $29,920, yet the previous Government lel the contract for $54,000. When matters like this are raised I hope it is not the intention of the Opposition to shovel all the responsibility for these dubious and controversial actions on to some public servant who will be picked out and left in a vulnerable position. 
The Minister for Works in another place has indicated his preparedness to accept responsibility. Firstly he said that the Government will set out in such a way as to ensure that the people who are given contracts for public works will be those who can bring home the bacon and who can get value for money because they have decent relationships with trade unions. After all, the Minister said in effect that he was prepared to accept responsibility but would give an assurance he would have a proper relationship with the head of the Department as had been the case over the years. 
The terms of this matter of public importance are framed in such an ambiguous way that I can only say that it is my earnest hope that public servants will not feel that they are now being put in a vulnerable position because of this new talk of bribery and corrup tion. This matter will only make .the public servant feel very very worried, about .his responsibility. 
It is true that  Mr Quinn  of the Victorian Federation of Co operative Housing Societies has made such  a  claim. However, his claim can be regarded only as an assumption. As honourable members know, an amount representing 30 per cent of State advances for Housing has been diverted to the home builders account. It is now proposed that an amount equal to 25 per cent of the advances to a State housing authority be allocated also for utilisation by the terminating building societies through the home builders account. However no mention has been made of the total amount of money to be allocated. 
I have been advising the State Housing Ministers, in my discussions with them in connection with the forthcoming Commonwealth State housing agreement, that while a smaller percentage is to be allocated it is likely that this will be a smaller percentage of a larger amount of money. It is presumptive to accept this as indicating that a lesser amount of money will be available for these purposes - that is, for the construction of housing through the terminating building societies. I have been indicating also that if there were to be a reduction in the flow of money through these particular channels, efforts would be made to encourage a flow of money from other channels, particularly from the life assurance societies. I have had discussions with my colleague, the Treasurer, for the purpose of contriving means by which that could be accomplished. At this stage it is too early to say what will happen and whether there is to be a taking up of the leeway by other institutions. The proposition that some consideration ought to be given to assisting with the interest rate so that low income people will not be handicapped in the provision of homes will certainly be taken into account. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide funds to the State housing authorities so that they may quickly build more homes for letting to needy families and persons. These are people who have satisfied the authorities that they are in need of housing assistance. This is the first step to give effect to the intention of the Australian Labor Party to reduce the waiting period for housing authority homes. On taking office the Government decided that the State housing situation demanded immediate action. Waiting lists of the State authorities had risen to well in excess of 90,000 but commencements of government dwellings had fallen in the September quarter of 1972 to an annual rate of only 12,000 about 6,000 fewer than in each of the years 1969-70 and 1970-71 and 3,000 fewer than in 1971-72. On being informed that this sharp decline in commencements was due to a shortage of finance, the Government decided to offer immediate financial assistance. It undertook to make advances at a concessional rate of interest to meet expenditure incurred by the States up to 30th June 1973 on dwellings that they would not otherwise have commenced before that date. 
A condition of the Government's offer is that the. additional dwellings to be commenced in this financial year will not be sold. On completion they will be for rental only. Those who seek rental accommodation are usually the more needy. All States have accepted the offer and have agreed to this condition. This Bill will appropriate a total of $6.55m. The amount available to each State, based on estimates by each housing authority of its additional expenditure up to 30th June next, is set out in the schedule to the Bill. In accordance with clause 7, the rate of interest payable on these advances is a very low 4 per cent per annum, and the repayments will be spread over 53 years. 
After the Government's offer was conveyed to the States, it was put to the Government that the States be permitted to spend some of these advances on the purchase and renovation of existing sub-standard but structurally sound houses. In many cases satisfactory, welllocated accommodation can be made available more quickly by this means than by the construction of new dwellings. For this reason, and because the renovation of individual houses in older neighbourhoods assists the rehabilitation of these areas, the Government has agreed to this proposal. 
Provision for the expenditure of the advances on the purchase of existing dwellings, as well as on new construction, is included in clause 6 of the  Bin.  As honourable members will know, I have been discussing with State Housing Ministers proposals for a new housing agreement to apply for a period of 5 years from 1st July 1973. One of the Government's proposals is that it will make advances to the States at a fixed interest rate of 4 per cent per annum. It is the Government's intention that the funds needed to complete the additional commencements and renovations begun before 30th June next will be made available to the States early in 1973-74 as part of the advances payable under the new agreement. 
I would now like to draw the attention of the House to sub-clause 2 of clause 8 of the Bill. This permits the sale of dwellings with the consent of the Minister. I want to make it perfectly clear that it is not my intention to give consent to the sale of any of these dwellings to prospective home-owners. The States have all agreed to the Government's condition that they must be reserved for renting to deserving persons. The provision permitting sales with Ministerial consent has been included solely to avoid legal complications that could arise in the long-term future if there were no such provision and the land on which they stand were to be required for other uses. Clause 9 of the Bill contains provisions regarding the furnishing of certificates and information that are normally associated with the payment of moneys to the States for specific purposes. 
In conclusion let me emphasise a significant feature of this first civilian housing measure introduced by this Government. Consistent with the principles it adheres to, the Government is directing assistance to the more needy - those who are least able to provide adequate shelter for themselves and their families - those who need decent and reasonably-priced rental accommodation. I also ask the House to co-operate in facilitating early passage of the Bill so that the advances it authorises may be paid to the States to enable them to press ahead as quickly as possible in providing more of this most urgently needed accommodation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
As I understand the position, servicemen are entitled to apply for Housing Commission homes in the same way as any other citizen is, but some houses are set aside for priority use by the services, t know the honourable member has a special interest in the Nowra- Jervis Bay area. There is a shortage of homes in that area, and it is reasonable that the Housing Commission should ensure that homes provided there are retained for use by servicemen. Otherwise there is no restriction at all. The problem is generally to the effect that there is an inadequacy of Housing Commission homes throughout Australia and, as the honourable member knows the Government is giving high priority to the consideration of that problem. 
by leave - I do not want to cut into the time of the Grievance Day debate which I understand is to follow. I simply want to say to the 3 members of the Public Works Committee who have spoken that I have taken careful note of what they have said. I have some understanding of the basis for their remarks, having recently ceased to be a member of the Public Works Committee. I will take early action to refer the matters raised to my colleague the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  in another place for his consideration. 
There is a very limited time for me to apply myself to the legislation on hand, the Commonwealth Banks Bill, but first I would like to say that I appreciate the comments of the 3 honourable gentlemen who preceded me. Although this is not a Bill which I am handling myself it has relevance to the responsibilities that I have, and I will be having considerable regard for the points made. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has proposed that a bureau of housing economics should be established and I am impressed with the idea that some form of advisory group could represent a very useful facility to enable the Government to be properly advised on this very fast moving and tremendously important field of social endeavour. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  made some mention of a matter which might best be dealt with in another context, that is the remarks I have made in respect of the Commonwealth State Houstng Agreement, the arrangements that exist now and the arrangements that we hope will exist after 1st July. All I want to say to him at this stage is that it seems to be the case that for 93,000 families or more home ownership in fact has not been the solution to their problem because it has been inaccessible to them. Many people are waiting for State Housing Commission homes. They are waiting for rental homes because they are unable to secure the deposits that are necessary to purchase a home and then of course unable to meet the repayments that are necessary in respect of houses. After that, if they are able to pay the deposits and meet the other requirements, there is the question of looking at their capacity to meet maintenance costs, insurance charges, rates and charges of that kind generally. 
The first priority that the Government sees in respect of housing is the need to ensure that everyone has a decent house in which to live. We do not feel that it matters all that much if a number of people will own houses, if that is highly virtuous, as against the other proposition that a lot of people will be inadequately housed. We want them all to be adequately housed and we want to build up the stock of rental houses. We know the extent to which housing commission houses have been sold off represents an enormous liability to this country. I know that in one State houses to the value of about S200m have been sold. The replacement costs represent something like $500m in the present situation of rapidly aggrandising costs. It must be remembered that it was the Minister for the Interior in the last Government who decided that for this kind of reason no further government houses were to be sold in the Australian Capital Territory. It must be remembered that in New South Wales, where a Liberal-Country Party Government prevails, similar attitudes are being taken and similar restrictions are being imposed. So the views that I am manifesting in my approach to the States about these matters is not without precedence by any means. I believe that they are well and truly justified. I have not left myself much time to talk about the Commonwealth Banks Bill. 
I think I have more than that. I have about 10 minutes to talk on some of these matters. The matter that is before the House is part of the New Australian Government's perspective about housing. For too long the whole question of housing has been in a backwater. This is an integrated part of the new emphasis being brought to bear, It does not stand in isolation by any means, as honourable members will have noted. It is in the perspective of an overhaul of the War Service Homes Act, now to be called the Defence Services Homes Act. It is in the perspective of a new housing assistance Bill under which $6.5m will be paid to the States as an emergency allocation for the work of the States' housing authorities. It is also in the context of a new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which is intended to make more money available at lower rates of interest to the States so that those people who have been deprived of decent housing opportunities for so long can have better prospects in the future. These things are already in the parliamentary pipeline. It is a very real situation that is occurring with respect to the implementation of the Labor Party's policy objectives. 
The Government has an election commitment to repeal as quickly as possible section 66 of the Commonwealth Banks Act. I am very pleased that my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has taken this early initiative which has been so warmly applauded from both sides of the Parliament. This matter also has to be taken in the perspective of other obligations and other commitments which the Government has made. It is the Government's intention to ease the burden of interest for home seekers generally; to look at the problem of student accommodation, a matter which has never hitherto been accepted as a Commonwealth responsibility; to remove the anomalies from the Homes Savings Grant Act; to overhaul the Aged Persons Homes Act; to work very hard to achieve uniformity in building codes and to encourage the introduction of the metric system with its consequential savings on home building costs throughout Australia. 
As honourable members will have noted, the Government is now active in an effort to introduce into this country a system of preferred dimensions which also relates to metrication. There are many other matters in which it is showing very active interest, as I think will be readily acknowledged. There is the matter of an assault on land prices, which is led by the endeavours of my colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who will probably be pump ing something like $200m into the effort to build up the national stock of land. The Government is interested in looking at the problems of stamp duty and the delays related thereto, and ways and means of speeding up the conveyancing processes and minimising the costs of conveyancing when ownership of land and houses is affected. 
Much has been said about section 66 of the Commonwealth Banks Act. Sufficient it is for me to say that it has outlived its usefulness. Its overhaul is well overdue because it is so outmoded. It should have received the attention of the previous Government years ago. I believe that this omission on its part has been readily acknowledged during the course of this debate. The provisions were of good intent and were designed to help low income earners, but they have come to be accepted and recognised as very genuine impediments. They have involved 2 ceilings on the availability of loans for home building from the Commonwealth Bank. The first ceiling has been  to the  effect that a loan should not exceed 90 per cent of the valuation. The second has represented a limitation on the size of the loan to no more than $9,000. The fact is that that figure has ceased, to have any realism in terms of the costs that apply around Australia at present. I will not be able to give figures to the extent that I should have liked but I will mention one or two to demonstrate my point. The average cost of construction of a house, excluding land, in Sydney, for example, in 1971-72 was $12,177. The difference between the maximum $9,000 which the Commonwealth Bank has been able to make available and the cost of construction which is $12,177 is $3,177. That becomes the subject of a second mortgage but that is not the extent of the second mortgage because I am simply talking about the average cost of construction, excluding land, and the cost of land has risen astronomically in recent times. In my own electorate - without getting involved in the chart of figures which I have with me - land is being made available to young people 17 to 20 miles from Sydney at a cost varying between $15,000 and $20,000 per block. This shows how out of date is the provision which the former Government failed to remedy. 
I now mention some of the difficulties which are associated with the borrowing processes that young people are involved in at present. Because of the hobbling of the Commonwealth Bank and the economic policies pursued by the previous Government, the finance companies have been left to run riot with deleterious effects on home builders - people seeking to own their own homes. Enormous interest rates are being charged. It might interest honourable members to know that even on a Commonwealth Bank loan of $18,000, secured at 6i per cent interest over 20 years, the interest payable amounts to $13,576. If one borrows $18,000 from a permanent building society for 20 years at 8 per cent the interest payable on that loan amounts to $18,660. With the finance company range of lending an interest rate of 12 per cent applies and this requires an astronomical repayment which can cause extreme liabilities for the person involved. 
One of the most disturbing features of the present situation is that just about every trading bank has an interest in a finance company. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd has 100 per cent equity in Esanda Ltd; the Bank of Adelaide has 100 per cent in Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd; the Bank of New South Wales has 43 per cent in Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd; the Bank of Queensland Ltd has 40 per cent equity in the Permanent Finance Corporation Ltd; the Commercial Bank of Australia has 100 per cent equity in General Credits Holding Ltd; the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney Ltd has 42 per cent equity in Commercial and General Acceptance Ltd and the National Bank of Australasia Ltd has 60 per cent equity in Custom Credit Corporation Ltd. It is interesting to note that while the hobbles have been on the Commonwealth Bank, massive advances of loans have been made by finance companies. There has been a usurping of the traditional role of banks in respect of home lending on the part of the finance companies. I had many figures to give to honourable members in this regard but time will not allow me to do it as the House has an obligation with the Governor-General in a short time. 
The Commonwealth Banks Bill, which has been brought down by the Treasurer, will do much to shift the emphasis back where it should be to give young people the right to go for their loans for housing to banks where they can get loans at reasonable rates of interest rather than pay higher interest rates on loans which have been taken over and shared predominantly by the finance companies of Australia. I commend the Bill to the House and I feel sure that it will reflect very great benefit for a very large number of home seekers in Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
by leave - On 24th February 1973, accompanied by members of my staff and members of the Commonwealth Department of Housing and of the Treasury, I met with the  Hon.  V. O. Dickie, M.L.C., Minister of Housing in the Victorian Government and his officers, to discuss matters associated with the proposed Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which, it is intended, should take effect from 1st July 1973. These discussions were regarded as private. No representatives of the Press were in attendance and, at the conclusion of the meeting, the Minister and I agreed that no Press statements or comment should be issued. 
I have been concerned to note from the Hansard of the Victorian Legislative Council of 7th March, that a question was asked by the  Hon.  J. M. Tripovich of the Minister of Housing, the  Hon.  V. O. Dickie, M.L.C., regarding the nature of the negotiations and requesting that the Minister lay on the table of the Library, the proposals of the Federal Minister for Housing and other comments and documents applicable to discussions which ensued between the Ministers. In reply to the question,  Mr Dickie  said in part: 
I can table the documents only with the approval of the Federal Minister for Housing. The documents relate to a ministerial discussion. 
It will be agreed that the import of the Minister's reply is to the effect that only my approval for the tabling of the documents remains as a deterrent to that being done. 
I believe it is important that such negotiations which represent a frank exchange of attitudes and ideas should be conducted in a confidential manner and at no time have I taken any course which conflicts with this attitude. However, I want it clearly understood that I have nothing to hide, nor has the Commonwealth. Accordingly, I have been in telephone conversation with  Mr Dickie  today and have told him of my preparedness to exchange the summary of our discussions, as prepared by our respective advisers, if he wishes.  Mr Dickie  has now informed me that he regards it as desirable that the summaries should remain confidential and that he intends next Tuesday in the Victorian Legislative Council to retract his statement to the Council of 7th March. Despite my declared willingness to table the summaries as requested, I believe that the negotiations may possibly be prejudiced by such action. 
Accordingly, it is my intention to preserve the confidentiality of these documents, unless approval for their release is given by  Mr Dickie.  The question as to whether or not all documents relating to the negotiations should be made public can be further considered at the formal meeting between myself and the State Ministers, scheduled to take place in Canberra on 23rd March. As honourable members are aware, it is the policy of the Australian Government to pursue the ideal of open government. In keeping with this objective, I would be prepared to table any documents associated with the negotiations, provided such a course had the acquiesence of the State Ministers concerned. 
The Government is concerned about the increase in costs, and some of the matters being looked at concern my colleague, the Treasurer. Nevertheless, so far as the innovation of new technologies and materials is concerned, the Government is committed to intensify investigation through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and will shortly be setting out to achieve this end. It is realised that there are problems in respect of the availability of materials and the types of techniques that have been utilised up to date which have the tendency to sustain high costs in the building industry and that it will be necessary to introduce new techniques. It is felt that there is a likelihood that Australia might now be on the threshold of new industrialised techniques in regard to the production of housing. 
These matters have been the subject of discussion between myself and such organisations as the Master Builders Federation, the Housing Industry Association and the Chamber of Manufactures. The general intent is to devise the processes by which new technologies can be introduced. I hope that in the not too distant future I will be able to put before the Cabinet specific proposals which will take advantage of proposals to move the whole housing and building industry into a state of metrication involving, as it does, a system of preferred dimensions of building sizes and other matters related thereto. In general, there is a very real concern about this matter on the part of the Government and proposals will be put before the Cabinet which will stimulate efforts at present being made towards the study of technological advances in housing and building. 
The honourable member is referring, I think, to the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act as distinct from the Aged Persons Homes Act. The Queensland Government got off to a late start. This legislation was introduced in 1969. At that time the Queensland Housing Commission was not providing homes for aged pensioners. It is now and it is making very considerable progress in providing these homes under the relevant legislation. I think the other thing to say is that the Government has now decided to re-enact this legislation from 1st July 1974. In taking this decision it has had regard for the fact that there have been some deficiencies in the legislation in the past - as there are at present for that matter - and up until 1st July 1974 this Act is restricted to the recipients of social service and repatriation benefits, that is, age pensioners and Service pensioners who are eligible for supplementary assistance. This represents a very considerable restriction on eligibility. The Government has decided to reenact the legislation and in the near future I and my colleagues will be giving consideration to the terms and conditions upon which the legislation will be re-enacted. I should say precisely that the Queensland Government has been dragging the chain for the reasons that I have mentioned. It is making progress and I hope that, as a result of its endeavours and the proposals that I have now outlined, the very serious deficiencies in aged pensioners accommodation in Queensland will be soon alleviated. 
 I have listened intently to what the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has said. It is obvious that he has raised a matter that is of serious concern to a number of people. Nevertheless, it appears that he is implying that in all circumstances the Commonwealth should be prepared to underwrite the varying rates which might be charged at any time by nursing homes. 
The honourable member gave this impression. For a long time the former Opposition, the present Government, has taken the view in respect of these matters that there is an obligation on the part of the Commonwealth to ensure that facilities are available for repatriation patients other than those who depend on medical care of a type which would contribute to the remedying of the particular ailments from which they suffer. But despite the contentions made over a long period the fact of the matter is that this area of convalescent care for repatriation patients has been subject to neglect over a long period. Quite contemporaneously, the previous Government started to give some attention to the matter. We are not in the business of underwriting convalescent homes and nursing homes, which in the period of the last Government and particularly the last Parliament, were able to gain such astronomical profits that the organisations concerned were listed on the stock exchange and reaped a great harvest at the expense of the sick in the community. Apparently they set out with the expectation of reaping even greater harvests from a bottomless pit of Commonwealth resources. This Government has set out on a programme designed to ensure a total attitude to care in respect of all people whether it is in regard to those who served in war and suffered as a consequence or people in other circumstances - the ordinary civilian population whose ailments and illnesses and convalescent needs do not have those characteristics. 
A great deal has been indicated to the Parliament and the people at large to show that these matters are in the process of radical and effective overhaul. The honourable member for Sturt need have no misunderstanding about the fact that in the very near future many of these ailments from which we are suffering and many of these temporary remedial processes that are now under way will be improved and replaced by more adequate schemes and forms of government action which will bring about a sense of security for all people and which will have a very beneficial effect on the repatriation system that operates throughout the country. 
I have listened to what the honourable member has said. One matter is very apparent. It is the fact that the people concerned are suffering and are incurring financial liability that they can probably ill afford. In consideration of that matter, I believe that it is important that I should refer the matter to my colleague in another place, the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  because 1 know of his concern about these matters. In keeping with the attitude of this Government and unlike the attitude of the previous Government, I can say this to the honourable member: He has not just stood here on the occasion of an adjournment debate talking into the open spaces. There will be proper account given to what he said. I have no doubt that my colleague in another place will do what no former Minister has ever done to me or perhaps to any of my colleagues who have talked in the adjournment debate on such matters. He will prepare an explanation and an adequate reply to the points raised. I think they will be of a placatory nature. If they are not, I am sure that the Minister will be able to indicate the steps which the Government intends to take to overcome the matters which have been raised. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is the same as that given by the previous Minister for Housingin reply to a similar question. I refer the honourable member to the answer to question No. 5621 (Hansard, 12th October 1972, pages 2615-2616). 
For the information of honourable members I present a copy of an instrument dated 3rd February 1973 made pursuant to section 5 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965-66 declaring a class of persons to be an approved class of lenders. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
 The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is the concluding  speaker  on the Opposition side in the debate on this Housing Assistance Bill. I appreciate the tenor of the debate and the contributions which were made to it from both sides of the House. Very useful comments and expressions of opinion were made during the course of the debate. As some people have said, there is a tendency to overrate the significance of the Bill. I do not want to overrate it. It is infinitesimal in relation to the problems that this country has with the enormous backlog of housing commission homes around Australia. It is intriguing to hear the honourable member for Mackellar talking about accommodation for young people. It seems to me that for 23 years he and his confreres had the chance to do it their way but that now apparently they are not satisfied with what happened during those years. It is significant that the honourable member for Mackellar has decided to introduce a private member's Bill on this matter subsequent to my announcement that the Government is examining ways and means of facing up to this very real sociological problem which has been neglected for 23 years. 
The activities of the honourable member for Mackellar in this Parliament, in Opposition and in Government, over a long period show that he stands for too little too late. I remember his contributions to the debate on the means test before he became the Minister for Social Services and his remarks then about what should be done. He has been Minister for Social Services and that period has now passed. Doubtless he will bring down a private member's Bill in relation to it. As a matter of fact a short time ago he moved a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to discuss the things that he did not do anything effective about while in office. I am not sure that we can take him terribly seriously on many of these matters. He has talked about other issues as well. For example, he made a contention that the Government does not stand for home ownership. Such a contention is hardly worth answering. I am resurrecting it simply so that my silence cannot be taken as representing acquiescence. It is too absurd for me to take up the time of the Parliament on it. 
The honourable member talked about the Minister for Housing 23 years ago, the former honourable member for Corio,  Mr Dedman.  He dug that up. One has to be pretty long in the tooth in a parliamentary sense to resort to that one. If anyone takes the trouble to look in Hansard he will see that on that occasion, in reply to someone saying: 'Give people the chance to buy their own homes and make them little capitalists',  Mr Dedman  said something to the effect of: 'We are not here to make people little capitalists. The purpose of this Bill is to give people housing. From that remark there has been this misconstruction and distortion. It is incredible that the honourable member, who has been in this place for so long, has to use this as the main argument in his contribution on a Bill of this nature. 
There is another old timer, my old sparring partner on housing, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  who on behalf of the Opposition started off this debate. He is what is often called around the lobbies 'the Opposition's  Mr Mouth  on Housing'. He has been speaking on this subject for a long time. In fact he and 1 together have been speaking on it for a long time, and very often I have tried to follow in his wake. I know that he regards the contribution that he has made in this debate as being of very great significance. I want to look at a couple of points that he made as the Opposition leader in housing matters and the man who took charge of the Bill. He started off by saying:  1 look upon this measure more as a propaganda stunt than of real value to deal with the problem of housing. 
The comment that he made in that regard has been disparaged by most of his colleagues who followed him in this debate. He went on to his next point of criticism which was that I and the Government were too enthusiastic about housing and he referred to the need to do something about the backlog of housing commission applicants. I mention again that there are many honourable members on the Opposition side who said that this measure is of merit, but the honourable member for Bennelong thinks that it is a propaganda Bill. Apparently he still believes that. He went on to say: 
. there are several real dangers. In the first place the time factor makes it virtually impossible for any State to meet the requirements. 
The honourable member comes from New South Wales. I would like him to know that an aspect of the motivation of this legislation involved a contention made by the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin. 
I refer to a letter dated 14thDecember 1972. That should not be a long time ago in terms of the honourable member's experience and lifespan. On 14th December 1972 the Premier of New South Wales wrote to the then Prime Minister and said: 
State housing is another field where needs have rapidly expanded in recent years. The funds available for the Housing Commission of New South Wales have been increased to the maximum extent practicable this year and it is planned to commence the construction of over 3,600 new dwellings. However, there is both a need and scope for this program to be stepped up significantly and if special Commonwealth funds were available the Commission would be in a position to increase its program substantially. Tenders could in fact be called for over 1,200 extra houses and flats in metropolitan and major country centres with a minimum of notice, thus providing additional employment in both home building and associated building supply industries. An additional $5m would, however, be needed in the current year. 
This is a letter from the Premier of New South Wales. 
He is a Liberal Premier. 
In reply - I have appreciated contributions made in this debate by honourable members from both sides of the House. I believe it is recognised that this is a very significant occasion. The Bill involves great expenditure in respect of the housing needs of ex-servicemen and serving members of the forces. 
If you can control the interjector,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will be prepared to give an estimate of the expenditure which the Department has prepared in this matter. 
I have heard what the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has had to say in regard to this matter and I want to be the first to acknowledge that his point is well taken. The Government has a great deal of sympathy in this matter. Why should we not have sympathy? We have been making contentions along these lines for a long time. I might say that serious consideration has been given by the new Government to the whole question of second mortgages. We feel that some significant steps ought to be taken in this regard. It might interest honourable members to know that the estimated cost of taking over all existing mortgages under war service homes legislation is between $12m and $20m. It is a lot of money. Our first obligation, of course, is to ensure that ex-servicemen and now others have the opportunity to obtain a home. It so happens that these people referred to in this amendment already have a home. 
It is also the case, as somebody on the other side of the chamber has acknowledged during the course of the second reading debate, that second mortgages were accommodated in the lifetime of the previous Government up to 1951. I have often contended myself - and other honourable members who comprise the Government have complained about this - that this was an arbitrary decision taken at that time and that there have been very serious and adverse effects. One of the things which I have been doing since I became the Minister for Housing - with the approval of the Cabinet, I might say - is to use the discretion available to me in respect of this matter with more compassion than has been brought to bear previously. We have developed some policy attitudes about it. Generally, the approved policy permits the discharge of mortgages where the terms of the mortgages are judged to be onerous and, having regard to the applicant's income, are causing serious hardship. Totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners often are assisted in this way by the use of my prerogative. 
But the matter put to me by the honourable member for Herbert does not involve prerogative; it involves rights. The Government stands for rights. We do not believe it is good for legislation to be of such a nature that a large area of discretion is placed in the hands of a Minister or the bureaucracy. It is good for every citizen of Australia to know that if he or she does certain things, that will establish eligibility for a right. I should like to see more rights as against discretion put into this legislation as quickly as it is reasonable to do. But it will not be done overnight. I have regard to the point contained in the amendment. It concerns TPI people who have a home and who can establish eligibility in all other respects. It is likely that in the predominance of cases such people would not be in affluent or lush financial circumstances. It is possible - let me be frank with the House because I do not think honourable members will take advantage of my frankness- 
You may. I would not be surprised if some do. I do not think that the Opposition at large will do so. When a government acknowledges a point like this one in respect of TPI pensioners a resourceful member of an Opposition - and I know what such a person is - will immediately say: 'Well, how about the age pensioner who can establish eligibility and so on?' The Government might have to accommodate that proposition in the long term but that suggestion has not been put to the Government by the Opposition. The amendment deals specifically with TPI pensioners. Section 20 (1.) reads: 
Subject to this Act and to the directions of the Minister as to matters of general policy, the Director may, upon application in writing, make an advance to an eligible person on the prescribed security, for the purpose of enabling him - 
to erect a dwelling-house on a holding of the applicant; 
to purchase land and erect thereon a dwellinghouse; 
to purchase a dwelling-house, together with the land on which it is erected; 
to complete a partially erected dwelling-house owned by him; 
to enlarge a dwelling-house owned by  him  or 
to discharge any mortgage, charge, or encumbrance already existing on bis holding. 
The amendment is to apply this to TPI pensioners who make a proper application in writing. This will cost some money but I do not think it will be an exorbitant amount. I think it is a reasonable amendment and on behalf of the Government I am prepared to accept it. 
in reply - All I want to say is that something of significance has been achieved by this Bill. I have made the point that the loan level of $9,000 represented only 57 per cent of the average advance for housing in the lifetime of the previous Government. To raise it to $12,000 goes close to meeting the average requirement. Nevertheless, it is the intention of the Government to give serious consideration to extending this amount by a second step, we hope to $15,000, in the lifetime of this Parliament. This is not secret. I have told the Parliament of the Government's intention and earnest desire to give effect to that intention. 
I take advantage of this third reading debate to say something which might help a lot of people. Nowhere in the debate has mention been made of the welfare organisations that come into the area of eligibility. 1 think it would be useful to have their names recorded in Hansard so that those people who have not been alerted may be by this process. The organisations designated as accredited welfare organisations are the Young Men's Christian Association, the Young Women's Christian Association, the Salvation Army, the Australian Comforts Fund, the Australian Red Cross Society, the Campaigners for Christ and the Australian Forces Overseas Fund. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I am not aware of the situation as it has been stated by the honourable member. I understand that there has been a drain on the resources of the insurance fund as a result of the catastrophic cyclone in Queensland. It is quite likely that the overall situation may be affected by this. I will have some investigations made in regard to this question and advise the honourable member. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Precise information is not available, but an estimate by my Department suggests that the proportion of the rise in the cost of home building between October 1971 and October 1972 attributable to on ite labour was of the order of 30 per cent. 
and (3) The Wholesale Price Index of Materials Used in Housebuilding for the 6 State capital cities shows the following increases in selected commodity groups during the 12 months ended 31st December 1972: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistical details have been maintained  to  enable this information to be furnished. 
Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications  (Question No. 329) 
I think that what the honourable gentleman suggests is the fact, although I am unable to confirm it. Suggestions along those lines have been made to me by other honourable members. The control of building societies is, of course, a matter for the States and I am pleased that included in the honourable member's question was the suggestion that if anything is to be done, even the matter of looking at this whole problem, it should be done in co-operation with the States. Quite frankly, there are many aspects of building society administration which are receiving my own personal attention and that of my Department. I am pleased to see that the Prime Minister, as late as yesterday, has given some manifestation of his own interest in the activities of building societies. 
I believe that the building society movement generally is of such significance and is such an important structure in the home financing processes that it would be indiscreet to make what could be thought to be impetuous comments about even the kind of matter to which the honourable member has referred, let alone more significant matters. Yet permanent building societies, lending matters generally and, for my own part, all those matters which are significant in the housing arrangements that we have in this country, are not taken for granted, will not be taken for granted and will be the subject of careful scrutiny. The matters referred to are not of an unimportant nature, but they do not represent the most significant matters which could be inquired into so far as building societies are concerned. I believe that the time might come when the Parliament could have a general feeling of acquiescence about the need to set up proper processes whereby the matter referred to and a lot of other associated matters could come under very careful scrutiny. 
PROPOSED VISIT OF  Mr K.  T. LI 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and 2 Bills that I shall be introducing shortly - the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1973 and the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1973 - are inter-related. The purpose of the Housing Agreement Bill 1973 is to obtain parliamentary approval for the Commonwealth to execute an agreement with each State that will be substantially in accordance with the form contained in the Schedule to this Bill. The Agreement provides that, during each of the 5 years commencing in 1973-74, the Commonwealth will make advances at low rates of interest to the States for welfare housing purposes. Unlike the housing assistance offered to the States by the former Government, we propose, and the Agreement provides, that our assistance will henceforth be directed towards those families and persons most in need of it. No less than 85 per cent of the family homes to be built by State housing authorities with our advances will be allocated to families where the average gross weekly income of the main bread-winner - exclusive of any overtime and child endowment payments - does not exceed 85 per cent of average weekly earnings per employed male unit as defined in the Agreement. Where the family includes more than 2 children, this will be increased by $2 per week for each child beyond the second. Those eligible will be mainly the lower income families who are paying too high a proportion of their incomes in private rents or are living in unsatisfactory accommodation. The State housing authorities may also use our advances to build homes for couples without dependants where the main breadwinner is an aged person or an invalid with a gross weekly income that does not exceed about 60 per cent of average weekly earnings. A single aged person or an invalid will also be eligible to obtain a housing authority unit where his or her income does not exceed 40 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
These families and persons include the majority of those in need of decent accommodation at a modest price. We are determined to ensure that more of this type of accommodation will be built by the State housing authorities than has been built in recent years. To take into account the high cost of constructing a home in some remote areas of Australia and in areas where incomes are on average far higher than in the capital cities, the Minister may approve for those areas somewhat higher needs tests than those that will apply generally throughout the States. To those who will claim that the needs tests to be applied by State housing authorities are too restrictive, our reply is that those most in need of housing assistance, certainly the majority of applicants on the waiting lists of the States, are persons with relatively low incomes, and that, even with expanded government home building programs, it will be some years before the housing needs of all these persons are met. It is, of course, open to any State to use portion of its approved borrowings or semi-governmental borrowings to build homes for those less in need. The emphasis of our assistance is on the needy. 
I wish to make it perfectly clear,  Mr Speaker,  that despite this emphasis there is no thought that a person who has been allocated accommodation by a State housing authority will be asked to vacate his dwelling if his income subsequently rises above the needs test level. There is absolutely no truth in statements that have been made to this effect. Those statements have emanated especially in Victoria during the current Victorian election campaign. Subject to the granting of priorities in cases of urgent need, dwellings provided with our advances shall be allocated to persons in the order in which their applications are lodged or accepted by the housing authority. The Agreement also provides that each State will ensure that the number of family dwellings allocated by its housing authority to families who satisfy the needs test shall not be less than the total number of family dwellings built with our advances and become available during the year for allocation for the first time, and 25 per cent of the number of family dwellings constructed by the States with financial assistance under this and. previous Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements that become available during the year for re-allocation. 
Although there is no mention in the Agreement of the maximum rents that may be charged on the dwellings to be built with our advances, this does not mean that the Australian Government is unconcerned about the level of rents to be charged. Indeed, we are most concerned to ensure that the benefit of our housing assistance in the form of a relatively very low rate of interest be passed on to needy families and persons. I have suggested to the States that rents charged to families with incomes close to the upper limit of the needs test should not exceed 22 per cent of those incomes and that the proportion of income paid in rent should be reduced as income declines. The States have accepted these general guidelines. Infrequent and large increases in rents should be avoided. The Agreement provides that at least once in each financial year a State shall review the finan cial position in regard to the rental activities of its housing authority and shall ensure that rents are adjusted whenever an increase would appear to be justified. 
Whilst the Government is firmly convinced that those most in need of housing assistance are families and persons who are seeking rental accommodation, we are certainly not opposed to home-ownership. Under the proposed Agreement up to 30 per cent of the family dwellings built by housing authorities with our advances may be sold at a fair price to families who satisfy the needs test. For the most part, these will be families who would be unable to borrow privately the finance they need to own their own homes. The interest charge to purchasers, including costs of administration, shall not be more than 51 per cent per annum. As it is our policy to assist the States to build up a reasonable stock of government homes and so reduce the existing far too lengthy waiting periods in most States, the Agreement provides that a purchaser may not dispose of the dwelling, except by reversion to the housing authority, for at least 5 years after the date of sale. It is recommended that subsequent intending vendors of these homes be required to give the housing authority first option to purchase at a fair market value at that time. 
It has been the practice of the Tasmanian Housing Department to sell a very high proportion of newly completed homes. Because of this, we have agreed that that Department will be permitted to sell 50 per cent of the homes built with our advances during the first year of completions  -  1974  -  and 40 per cent of the homes built during the second year of completions  -  1975. Thereafter the 30 per cent ceiling on sales of new homes will apply to all parties to the Agreement. We have not overlooked the most helpful role of the cooperative terminating housing societies in assisting lower income families to own their own homes. Whilst we intend to persuade private lending institutions to make significantly more finance available long term at a reasonable rate of interest for the formation of more co-operative terminating housing societies, we also recognise that this movement will continue to be dependent on receiving a continuing flow of government finance to maintain a desirable level of activity. The Agreement therefore provides that not less than 20 per cent nor more than 30 per cent of the welfare housing advances by the Commonwealth to a State in a year shall be paid into a home builders' account to be lent to prospective home-owners through cooperative terminating housing societies or a lending authority of a State approved by the Commonwealth. However, at the request of a State Minister and in respect of a State in which its annual allocation to its home builders' account in each of the 2 financial years ending on 30th June 1973 has exceeded 30 per cent of total new advances for welfare housing, the Commonwealth Minister may approve an advance to its home builders' account in a year in excess of 30 per cent of the total Commonwealth advance in that year. This will avoid a disruption of the flow of housing finance to low-income prospective home-owners in South Australia. 
In line with our policy of ensuring that our housing advances for welfare purposes benefit the more needy, applicants eligible to receive home builders' account advances will be families consisting of a married or engaged couple, or a single parent or guardian with one or more children, where the average gross weekly income of the main breadwinner, inclusive of overtime but excluding child endowment payments, does not exceed about 93 per cent of average weekly earnings, plus $2 a week for each child beyond the second. The minimum deposit to be found by a borrower of home builders' account moneys shall be 3 per cent of the value of the property in respect of which the loan is made. The maximum interest charge, including management fee, on these loans is not to exceed the equivalent of  5$  per cent per annum. 
The Agreement provides that each State shall advise the Commonwealth Minister before the commencement of each financial year of the amounts it wishes the Commonwealth to advance during the financial year. After consultation with the State Minister, the Commonwealth Minister shall determine the amount to be advanced to the State during the financial year for expenditure by its housing authority and to be allocated to its home builders' account. All advances shall be repayable over 53 years with interest in equal annual instalments. The interest rate payable by a State on Commonwealth advances allotted to its housing authority in each of the next 5 financial years shall be 4 per cent per annum, and on advances allotted to its home builders' account shall be 4i per cent per annum. 
Commonwealth advances allotted to a State housing authority may be used by the authority: (a) to meet the costs of acquisition and development of land primarily for residential purposes; (b) to meet the cost of construction of dwellings; (c) to meet the cost of purchase and upgrading and renovation of dwellings, and of substantial improvements to its existing dwellings, but not so as to include the cost of maintenance; and (d) subject to the approval of the Minister, to provide bridging finance for community amenities that are not the responsibility of the housing authority. 
I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to the last 2 purposes for which our advances may be used. In many cities there are dwellings close to the centre that are in need of upgrading and renovation if they are not to be condemned as unfit for human occupation. They are ideally situated in relation to amenities and work opportunities, and all essential services are available. When renovated, they can not only provide decent homes for families for many years, but can also improve the quality of the residential environment. We wish to encourage the States to acquire such homes, and upgrade and renovate them, where this can be done at reasonable cost. 
The Government is also concerned at the frequent absence of essential community amenities in many new estates developed largely by State housing authorities. In developing areas where the local authority is not yet receiving its full potential revenue from general rates, the Government is willing to approve the temporary use of portion of our housing advances in order to accelerate the provision of essential community facilities where a satisfactory arrangement is entered into between the local and housing authorities. 
It is the policy of the Government to avoid the development by State housing authorities of estates in which almost all the residents are in receipt of government housing assistance, and there is a tendency on the part of some people to regard families living in those areas as being second class citizens. We are determined to do our best to prevent such unfair social discrimination. To this end the Agreement provides that, to the maximum extent reasonably practicable, dwellings built with housing authority advances shall be intermingled with dwellings privately constructed, and a State housing authority will acquire some blocks in residential areas developed by private enterprise, and will construct and let dwellings on those blocks. 
Coir intention is that our welfare housing advances will not be part of State programs approved by the Loan Council. During the process of negotiation of this Agreement, all State Housing Ministers sought certain assurances in respect to borrowing to be approved by the Loan Council and the minimum allocation for works, including any housing other than welfare housing. Ground-clearing exercises have been carried out by Australian and State Treasury officers so that, at the June 1973 meeting of the Loan Council, Ministers may consider what would be necessary to ensure that what is done on housing does not in itself prejudice the positions of the States on the Loan Council program side when all factors are taken into account. However, as the Government wishes to be in a position to offer the States advances for welfare housing from 1st July next, it is important that the legislation to authorise it to enter into this Agreement, and make advances, be approved by the Parliament during the current sittings. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make advances totalling S84.6m to the States for welfare housing during the first 6 months of 1973-74. The repayable, interest bearing advances will, as circumstances dictate, be made from either the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund and will be on the terms and conditions set out in the Agreement to be made between the Commonwealth and each State in pursuance of the Housing Agreement Bill. Provision is made for any payments out of Consolidated Revenue Fund for this purpose to be reimbursed in due course from Loan Fund where the Treasurer considers this appropriate. 
The maximum amount payable to each State is set out in the schedule to the Bill and is equivalent to half the amount allocated by each State from its Australian Loan Council programs for housing purposes in 1972-73. The advances of these amounts are intended to be made under the Housing Agreement to provide for the States' needs for housing funds in the early months of 1973-74. The total amount to be advanced to each State in 1973-74 for welfare housing purposes, which is yet to be determined, will be the subject of an authorising Bill to be introduced into Parliament during the Budget sittings. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill to amend the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971 is to withdraw the Commonwealth assistance to the States in the form of grants of $2.75m a year for 30 years in respect of any advances they may make to their housing authorities and their home builders accounts during the 3 financial years commencing 1st July 1973. The basic housing grant of $2.75m a year in respect of State housing activities in each of the financial years 1971-72 and 1972-73 will continue to be paid for the remainder of the 30-year periods in respect of those years. 
It is intended that from 1st July next the bulk of the Commonwealth's offer of housing assistance to the States will be in the form of advances at a highly concessional rate of interest under an agreement. As, under the agreement, it is proposed that the Commonwealth Minister will determine the amount of welfare housing advances to a State during the next 5 years, the Australian Government will be able to ensure that an increasing flow of finance will be available to the States to enable them to expand the construction of homes for needy persons and families. May I draw to the attention of honourable members that this Bill does not repeal the offer of a grant of $ 1.25m per annum for the next 3 years to the States as a contribution towards the cost to them of the losses they incur in letting a number of dwellings at less than their economic rents. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The Victorian Housing Minister has not indicated enthusiasm about the proposed housing agreement. 
It could be, but it is still a fair expression of the situation. He has made it clear that the Government of Victoria has no intention of increasing rents before the election. To be more precise, he has said - this is borne out in a transcript of the proceedings of the Housing Ministers Conference - that, the Victorian Government has decided that in this financial year there will be no increase in rental charges. He stated that in July 1973 the Victorian Gov-, ern ment will, however, be making a review of all rentals. I am not prepared to overstate and say that it is inevitable that rental increases will follow, but I think it is implied because the Victorian Government, like other State governments, often, delays the review of rents until after elections and too frequently rental reviews are conducted triennially rather than annually. The Commonwealth has advocated that there should be periodical and annual reviews of rents in order that people may be spared the disadvantage of suffering a large increase from time to time. 
I should like to inform the honourable member that if the Housing Agreement Bill which is at present before the House receives the approval of the Victorian Government it is likely that substantial increases in rents which would otherwise take place may be avoided. If finance is provided at 4 per cent per annum interest rather than one per cent below the bond rate and provided over 53 years, it obviously provides the means by which rental or repayment costs on houses can be kept to a minimum. It may be of interest for honourable members to know that later today, after question time, I shall be tabling documents relating to the negotiations associated with the proposed CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. There has never been any indication on the part of the Commonwealth that it stands for increases in rents. Conversely, there has been a clear implication in what I have read to the House, which is an account of what the Victorian Housing Minister has said, that the Victorian Government will be contemplating such an increase after the State election. I should take the opportunity of correcting another incorrect impression which has been conveyed throughout Victoria. It is to the effect that this Government stands to evict people who are tenants of housing commission homes when they become more affluent. The documents I table today will demonstrate that there has never been a Commonwealth intention along those lines. 
For the information of honourable members, I present transcripts of the proceedings of the conferences between Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing held at Canberra on Friday, 23rd March 1973, and at Adelaide on Thursday, 5th April 1973. 
I move: 
That in accordance wilh the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972 it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of Wellington Telephone Exchange, Perth, Western Australia. 
The proposal is a 17-storey reinforced in situ concrete construction, fully air conditioned with multiple air handling and refrigeration plants to suit the specialist PostmasterGeneral's equipment to be installed. Emergency generating plant is included, and special attention has been paid to the decor of the manual assistance centres, where murals and curtaining will be provided to create a pleasant working environment. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work is Si 1.3m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the proposed building at Wellington Street, Perth, and recommended its construction. The Committee also recommended that guidelines for preparation of environmental impact statements be laid down as soon as possible and that the planning arrangements of the Post Office be examined with the aim of effecting changes in policy or overcoming shortcomings in procedures and resources to avoid late referrals of proposals in the future. 
An interdepartmental committee is examining the policy directives necessary to lay down guidelines for the preparation of environmental impact statements and has set up 3 working parties to assist in its determinations. The interdepartmental committee has a target of recommending to the Government guidelines for preparation and presentation of the environmental impact statements in time for amendments of legislation as necessary to be processed during the Budget session of this Parliament. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has advised that there have been staffing problems within the Australian Post Office but that the matter is currently under consideration. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker- 
 lt is very difficult for the House to know- 
Lynch) therefore has priority over the Minister for Housing and it was to him that you gave the call. 
The Government is endeavouring to facilitate a debate on the housing needs of the young people of Australia. It is extremely difficult for members of the House, let alone for the public at large, to know the reasons why the Opposition is seeking to frustrate such a debate when the Bill before us has emanated from one of its own members. It is an amazing situation that when a Minister sets out with all the good intent in the world to come to an arrangement with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  there is the inevitable likelihood that this arrangement will be repudiated. One wonders why the honourable member wants to engage in this hit and run tactic of standing up and putting his point of view and then doing everything possible to ensure that the Government cannot comment on the points that he has made. This seems to display all the tendencies of notorious publicity seeking rather than a genuine intention to have the matter properly ventilated. 
I think the disgust in this situation does not rest just with this side of the House; it is apparent that some honourable gentlemen on the Opposition side have found the proceedings so undesirable and unsavoury that they have left the precincts and refrained from voting. I know of several cases. The fact is that in respect of this Bill I am speaking on behalf of the Opposition. The Opposition, which might have formulated an attitude on this legislation, could have helped the proceedings of the House, if we had before us a Bill which was indicative of the attitude of the Opposition. The fact of the matter is that this Bill was introduced by the honourable member for Mackellar. One is entitled to ask why is it that the honourable member has not sought the support of his own Party and why he has not sought a party attitude on this matter in the same way as I, as Minister for Housing, have sought a party attitude. The fact is that if an Opposition attitude had been taken the Government would have been able to negotiate on this matter in respect of 
Opposition spokesmen. It is a fact, however, that at my request the honourable member made a copy of the Bill available to me, I think last Wednesday or Tuesday evening. At least I received the copy in time for all the Party meetings which take place concurrently in this House. I ask the honourable member for Mackellar the following question: Since it was printed and available for presentation for the Government Party, why was it not presented for the consideration of the Opposition? I discussed the matter with the honourable gentleman and I told him that consistent with the philosophy of this Government we would facilitate a debate on this Bill. It should be remembered that this is a private members Bill and not a Bill endorsed by the Opposition. I negotiated with the honourable member for Mackellar and I said that the Government would agree to hearing his second reading speech and the speech of the seconder, who in this case was the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  after which I would reply and that we would be doing everything possible to get a vote on this matter. Surely a member who initiated a private members Bill - and the same position should apply if the legislation was initiated by the Opposition - would desire a vote to be taken on his proposal. One wonders what the motivation is for this delaying tactic. 
So the fact is that I made commitments to the honourable member for Mackellar. Last night I had a phone call from the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who in the usual course of events leads for the Opposition on housing matters. He asked me what the arrangements were and he concurred with the explanation I gave. I do not know how the Government is supposed to function in this situation. Surely it is a virtuous attitude that we should do what we can to facilitate discussion on private members' urgency motions and Bills. 
Of course we discussed it in Caucus. 
I said we did. 
Everybody sitting on this side of the House will be able to reaffirm what I am putting to honourable members opposite, that this matter was naturally listed. I do not know how honourable members opposite run their business in their Party meetings, but so far as the Government was concerned this matter was listed on the parliamentary notice paper and as such it was a matter which was to receive the consideration of the Party. We are a Party. We formulate Party attitudes on these matters. I suggest that if the Opposition had done the same thing we would not have had this disgraceful performance today at the expense of the legislative time table which is of great importance to the people of Australia. It is one thing to be facilitating private members urgency motions and private members' Bills but is is another to ensure that they are dealt with in proper perspective. These matters cannot go on needlessly and recklessly. This Government has a mandate from the people and we intend to implement that mandate despite all of the disruptive endeavours that are made by honourable members opposite. 
The honourable member said: 'You can say goodbye to your housing bills'. I think it is a bit pathetic if, because some honourable members opposite are being found out in regard to their repudiation of an agreement, they now intend to follow a course of action presumably taken officially on behalf of the Opposition, which would have the effect of preventing the 95,000 families who are waiting for housing commission homes around Australia from getting the assistance they urgently need. (Honourable members interjecting). 

 - Mr Speaker, do I have to speak over this continuous barrage of interjections? 
I take the point and I hope that there will be less provocation so that I can talk about this Bill. As I said, I have an attitude which I will express on behalf of the Government. Firstly, let me say that we are not prepared to accept the provisions of the Young Couples' Home Assistance Bill. 
The honourable member asks why. Let me start giving him several of the. reasons. First of all we take the view that the Bill offers unjustifiable tax concessions. It favours the affluent at the expense of the deprived. It is uncosted and, in my view, financially irresponsible. It is at variance with the homes savings grant scheme and is capable of undermining that scheme. 
Sifting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was summarising the Government's attitude to this Bill - the Young Couples' Home Assistance Bill. It is necessary for me to repeat it, although in a slightly different way. The Bill proposes a system of unjustifiable tax concessions. It favours the affluent at the expense of the less affluent. The proposal is uncosted and, in that sense, is financially irresponsible. It is also apparent that the Bill runs at variance with the Homes Savings Grant Act. It could have deleterious effects on building societies in Australia. It certainly could undermine the banking system. The Government criticises the fact that the Bill also contains a proposal, the effect of which would be to restrain the beneficiary from exercising the right to sell his house for 3 years. The Government believes that that would be an undesirable byproduct of the legislation. Lastly, the Government disregards this way of solving the housing problems of the nation because it is at variance with the attitude of the Government. 
We cannot accept the proposition that the Bill is an effective answer to the housing problem. After all, the proponent of the Bill is one of those who have to accept responsibility for the present situation, lt is a bad situation. Home ownership in Australia is beyond the reach of large numbers of young people. This gives the Government concern. It is sad and pathetic to see this belated concern on the part of the Opposition in the face of 23 years of relative inaction. The country is reeling under the impact of 23 years of inaction and the honourable member for Mackellar, as a former Minister, must accept his part of the responsibility. After all, that was the era in Australia's history when land prices took their meteoric rise to such prohibitive levels, when our overcrowded cities were allowed to grow to such massive proportions, when the fierce competition for developed land occurred, when no new cities at all were planned, when there were long waiting lists for housing commission homes throughout Australia, when interest rates spiralled and when deposit gaps became the order of the day. 
The legacy of inadequate housing that the Government has inherited will now be resolved in accordance with the mandate given to this Government so generously by the Australian people. We are going to do it our way. It certainly is not intended to compound privilege with a bonanza - that was the word used by the honourable member - represented by wads of Wentworth's housing certificates. More purchasing power and massive tax remissions for the privileged minority are not the antidote for the chronic sociological ailment which is our nation-wide housing crisis. Th:s Bill will do nothing to alleviate the distressing spectacle of 100,000 families, or thereabouts, comprising the waiting lists - the increasing waiting lists - for State housing authority homes. 
The r;ch already have access to lucrative avenues of investment through the hire purchase and land speculation corporations and the mining companies. There is no need to embellish those arrangements. No housing certificate scheme is needed to assist the person who, under this Bill, could acquire housing certificates to such an extent as to increase his tax deductibility by $1,000 a year. Under this proposal the higher the income, the bigger the deduction or remission that is made in respect of the Bill. Not only do these people crack the tax jackpot in the year of purchasing the housing certificate but they also win a super jackpot at the time of redemption. The amount received on redemption of housing certificates is not deemed to be assessable income under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1972. No wonder the Opposition would not officially endorse this Bill. No wonder the Bill has never seen the light of day, even in 23 years of LiberalCountry Party administration. 
How can this scheme be reconciled with the homes savings grant scheme which was introduced by the previous Government and which is designed to attract savings by young people into prescribed savings institutions? There is not even a reference to the way in which these 2 matters can be reconciled. It is obvious that the 2 schemes cannot possibly live together. Either young people save through the traditional institutions and attract a $750 grant on $2,250 savings under the Homes Savings Grant Act, or they buy housing certificates. Is the proponent of this Bill intending to destroy the homes savings grant scheme which, despite its apparent anomalies - anomalies which the Government is committed to rectifying - at least provides benefits to a universal maximum for all participants? It is apparent that the honourable member is proposing a course of action which represents a collision course and which would throw all the young couples who are saving under the Homes Savings Grant Act into a state of utmost dilemma. 
Under this Bill there is no limit to the extent of the investment and, accordingly, no reasonable limit on the benefits that could accrue. The Bill actually includes a table showing the redemption value of a $10 housing certificate each year for 50 years. One would have thought that 50 years would be regarded as too long a period for which to save for a first home. The table shows that $10 is worth $286.02 after 50 years. For an investment of $1,000 the yield is $28,602. By then, I should imagine, the young couple concerned, who have been saving for 50 years and are still without a home, could get accommodation under the Aged Persons Homes Act and possibly go for a holiday on the Riviera. There is some sort of benefit in that, but it is not the stated intention of the legislation. Surely it is not a reasonable proposition that the Parliament should take this seriously. I am encouraged to note that the Opposition has not taken it seriously. 
If this scheme were to be approved, it would have devastating consequences for the building society movement. Savings at present directed to the building societies would be diverted into a new housing certificates trust account. The lending capacity of building societies would be seriously impaired. I wonder whether the honourable member has given consideration to this fact and whether he has gone to the trouble of having any discussions with the building societies. In the light of current events and the recent expressions of consternation, it is easy to anticipate the response he would have received if he had proposed to the building societies that there be some new scheme designed to attract savings into yet another area. Meanwhile, presumably the trust account would assume swollen proportions, yet would be put to no real use in assisting the home-seeking community. I think I am right in saying that nowhere in the Bill or in the honourable member's second reading speech was any explanation given as to the manner by which the funds held in the trust account would be utilised for housing purposes. 
The Government firmly rejects this Bill. We reject it because it would be economically and socially unjust in principle and in practice. At a time when hundreds of thousands of our less privileged citizens are struggling to obtain adequate housing, it would divert government funds not to the needy but to those people who already are moving in a determined way along the path to home ownership. The Government upholds home ownership and stresses the need for more rental housing as well. But while we have a crisis in housing it would be financially irresponsible to use a large part of the funds available for housing on a scheme such as this. It is significant that no attempt has been made to give any estimate of cost. No costing has been given because the scheme represents virtually an open-ended commitment. To agree to it would commit the Government to an economic decision of great magnitude. For instance, it would intrude quite powerfully into the taxation structure, adding to the regressive nature of much of that system. If such a scheme were to be seriously considered by any government it would need much more research than is evident from the Bill before the House. 
The scheme described in this Bill is an extremely generous one. No one argues about that. Its costs would be high. No doubt the young people able to take advantage of the scheme would benefit in a number of ways. Firstly, money used for the purchase of housing certificates would be deducted from taxable income in the year of purchase. The value of this benefit may be considered by taking the case of the person of moderate affluence who, if his income increases by $10 will pay, roughly, an additional $5 in tax. For such a person the value of this first concession is such that for every $10 housing certificate purchased the Government would, in effect, pay half. Secondly, and provided that the certificates when they are cashed are used for the purchase of the first matrimonial home, they would attract interest at 10 per cent per annum. This is a healthy rate even in present conditions of high interest. It would be an even better rate if, as the Government is determined to bring about, there is a fall in the general rate of interest. We must also bear in mind that this interest is paid on money of which a portion has, in effect, been provided by the Government. 
Thirdly, and on condition that the certificates when cashed are used to purchase a home, the interest credited during the life of the certificates would also be exempt from taxation. Thus, there are two quite separate taxation benefits which in the average case would add up to a considerable value. Finally, there is the extremely important concession that the value of certificates when cashed for home purchase would be increased in proportion to the price level as measured by the consumer price index. In other words, the holders of these certificates are to be singled out as the only members of the community who are to be fully protected against the effects of price inflation. Even if the proceeds of cashing the certificates are not used for the purchase of the first matrimonial home, the amount invested in the certificates could still be deducted from taxable income. Although people who use the money in this way do not receive further benefits, this indicates it would be an attractive means of saving, especially for people of high income. 
A further comment on the nature of these benefits is that they represent blank cheques. The value of the interest to be credited by the Government would depend on how the rate of 10 per cent compares with the rate which could have been obtained in alternative investments. The value of the suggested adjustment for price inflation contained in the Bill will depend on the extent to which inflation actually occurs. To provide to any section of the community a benefit which cannot, with any precision whatever, be evaluated, would be quite contrary to the proper principles of public finance. However, as I said before, the main objection to the scheme is that it would be enormously expensive. It is a firm policy of the Government that the major aspects of expenditure in its social welfare program must benefit people of relatively low income. That is our sense of priorities. In other words, in selecting the people who will be assisted by the Government, the main criterion is their degree of need. 
Under the homes savings grant scheme everyone who has saved the maximum amount receives the same payment from the Government. Under the provisions of this 
Bill people of high income receive a much bigger benefit than people of low income. It is inherently inequitable. If the Government were to adopt this scheme it would be at the expense of other and more urgent social objectives. There are many people in greater need than the relatively well-to-do home purchasers. Unlike our predecessors, the Government does not pursue the principle that to those who have shall be given. 
During the course of my contribution to this debate I contended that the Government chooses to face up to this problem, the legacy of the previous government, in its own /ay. This afternoon, it is scheduled for the House to consider some Bills which represent a facet of the way in which we intend to approach this problem. We do not need any intimidation from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who by way of interjection threatened to make the going tough for the Housing Assistance Bill if we dared to reply to the measure before us. We have taken the view today that, since the Government made an arrangement which would enable the proponent of this Bill to give a second reading speech to the full limit of time provided for under the Standing Orders and since we also allowed the seconder to speak, thus ensuring that a period of 50 minutes was used by the advocates of this Bill, it would be reasonable for the Government to have one  speaker  in reply. After that, in keeping with our declared obligation to give private members the opportunity to bring down Bills, we felt that we should proceed to a vote. 
We have assumed that any private member bringing down a Bill would have the desire to see it go to a vote. I suppose there is a reaction in respect of the treatment that this Bill has received and that a certain slate of affairs is prevailing. ] can understand that because it has not been the nature of this Parliament for many years for the Government to permit any private member's Bill to be debated, let alone to bring it right to the culmination point of a vote. We have made a commitment to the honourable member for Mackellar. We are firmly obligated to uphold our part of it. Subsequently it is our intention to go along and do things our way so that we can effectively assail this problem - the problem which young people are experiencing in regard to their access to finance for a home. 
We intend to do a number of things We have already done  a  number of things. We increased bank loans by amending the Commonwealth Banks Act. We have lifted the lending capacity of the Commonwealth Bank so that loans can now be made available at a $12,500 limit instead of the $9,000 limit which prevailed previously. Honourable members know what has been done under the Defence Service Homes Act - very generous embellishments. It is also understood that the Government proposes to make much larger allocations of finance available for State housing authority purposes at lower rates of interest. There are a number of other things we intend to do. It is known that my colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  currently is engaged in negotiations with the States to assail the basic problem, the question of land prices which has been ignored for 23 years. 1 am pleased to hear that he is making good progress in that regard. We want to see low cost land. We want to see low cost money. 
The Opposition knows of our commitment to provide tax deductibility on home loan interest rates. It knows of our commitment to bring about a system of uniform building codes in Australia, which eminent builders have contended for many years could effect cost savings in respect of the purchase of a house of between $800 and $1,000. We are actually in the business of doing something about that. I am not flying kites; I am talking about a matter which has been the subject of consideration by our Cabinet committees and which will soon be given effect to in a most practical way. I am talking about the concern we have about getting conveyancing costs down and indemnifying the States so that we can prevent the delays which occur and the excessive costs which result from the stamp duty system. 
The Opposition has some regard, I think, for our intention to remove the anomalies from the Homes Savings Grant Act. Of course, the Government is intent on reviewing the whole question of building technology. Towards that end we will be setting up proper processes - innovations the like of which have not been seen for 23 years. We will continue to regard the housing problems of the Australian people as being paramount and of high priority and sociological importance. We do not accept this unjust proposition as the way to set about it. Accordingly, the Government opposes the Bill. 
But one thing which is inherently characteristic of the Government is that it wants to tidy up the situation. We want to have a vote on this Bill. Accordingly, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill in essence seeks to enlarge the scope of activities of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation by removing a number of restrictions and restraints imposed on the Corporation at the time of its formation. When the original Bill was debated, the Labor members, while in Opposition, strongly opposed those provisions which would limit the capacity of the Corporation to operate as a viable organisation in the long term over the full range of engineering activities. A number of amendments were moved by the then Opposition members which, with one exception, were not accepted by the former Government. Whilst we strongly endorsed the setting up of the Corporation we opposed the restricted role it was given. We now intend to widen the role to conform with the view of the Government as to the important engineering role the Corporation is to exercise in the future development of Australia. 
In general the only work in Australia that the Corporation can at present undertake is that related to the development of water resources, to the generation and transmission of electricity, and to underground works. Even in these fields further restrictions are imposed by the present Act in that, except for work for the Commonwealth and State authorities, the Corporation must operate through a private consulting engineer; it is also unable to engage in any construction work in Australia. The proposed amendments remove these restraints. 
As honourable members are aware, the purpose of establishing the Corporation was to retain for the benefit of Australia the skills and know-how accumulated during a quarter century's work in large-scale civil engineering on the Snowy Mountains Scheme. The application of the Snowy's engineering, technical, administrative expertise should therefore not be limited but given the freedom to assist in all areas where its specialised knowledge and experience is required. For some time now organisations and industries in fields, other than those defined in the original Act, have expressed concern that these skills are unavailable to them. One major avenue of engineering endeavour in which it is barred by its present Act is the mining industry with particular reference to advice on open cut mining, railways, bridges, etc. and of course we are not unmindful of the role the Corporation could play in the engineering works associated with the development of the national pipeline system. The major amendments to the Act are therefore designed to permit the Corporation to engage in engineering work in Australia as well as overseas. 
On a number of occasions the Corporation has acted in joint ventures with private consultations either as leaders or participants. Doubt as to the legality of such association is removed by the proposed amendment which allows the Corporation to act independently or in association with others. At present all works undertaken by the Corporation, however minor, must receive the prior approval of the Minister. This again, we believe, to be unnecessarily restrictive. One of the proposed amendments to the Act, while retaining the Minister's control over the Corporation will give him the power to allow certain works as prescribed by the Minister to be undertaken without specific submissions for approval. 
The principal Act is also to be amended to give effect to a change in the composition of the consultative committee which advises the Minister on the undertaking of work by the Corporation. Representatives of the Departments of Foreign Affairs and Overseas Trade are specifically nominated for membership in respect of overseas work. The participation of these 2 important departments in any deliberations on the work to be performed overseas by the Corporation will ensure that overseas undertakings will comply with Government policy. Opportunity has also been taken to replace the clause concerning the borrowing powers of the Corporation by a new clause conforming with the latest government policies in this area and identical with the standard provisions in other similar Acts such as the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1971. The final amendment clarifies the fact that the Corporation must not only seek the approval of the Minister before it can acquire or dispose of property with a value in excess of $100,000, but also seek the approval of the Minister to enter into an agreement for the provision of services if their value is in excess of $100,000. 
I should like to reiterate to honourable members that this Bill does no more than put into practice long-standing and publicly stated policies of the Government with regard to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. All the major changes were previously suggested by the present Government at the time of the debate on the original Bill in 1970. With the removal of restrictions on the scope of the work it can undertake the Corporation will be able to take on work which could facilitate the absorption of more personnel from the Snowy Mountains Authority as construction of the Snowy Mountains scheme draws nearer to finality. As many displacements of personnel from the Authority will occur this year unemployment must eventuate in an area where job opportunities are few. This gives a degree of urgency to the passing of the Bill. 
In conclusion, may I say that the private consultant engineering sector in Australia need have nothing to fear from the enlarged scope of the Corporation. In the past, the Corporation as a matter of policy has often worked in association with private consultants through joint ventures and other similar arrangements. These consultants have thereby been given the opportunity to participate in overseas and other work in which they might otherwise have found their entrance unattainable. Indeed, it can be said that many of these assignments would have been won by foreign consultants had the Corporation not participated in this matter. The Government sees a continuation and a widening of these opportunities for the private consulting sector with the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation on a broader basis. In accordance with the requirements of the Act the Corporation must return a profit on undertakings and during its 3 years of existence it has succeeded in this respect. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1973 and the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1973 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the  3  Bills to be discussed iri this debate. 
I am sure that all honourable members were concerned to read of the stoppages which have taken place and which are said to be holding up works of a capital value of approximately $350m. These works include Commonwealth projects. The situation is already very serious and there are prospects that the disputes could extend into the housing area and thus have very deleterious effects on the urgent need for house: in New South Wales. For that matter there is the possibility that the disputes could extend past New South Wales. It is very distressing to see that great differences have developed between the Master Builders' Association oi New South Wales and some of the building unions in New South Wales. There seems te be developing an incapacity to communicate effectively and resolve differences. There have been a number of differences but they are polarising now into one particular issue, the issue of permanency for the building industry My point of view is that permanency is : principle worth pursuing. 1 uphold it. '. believe it is undignified to subject employee in any industry to the insecurity and uncertainty of not knowing from where their next job and income will come. 
It seems to rae that .there ought to be gov emmental action, State or federal or possibly both, for the purpose of examining this situation which could cause the crisis in the build ing industry to deteriorate. I might mention that permanency is not without precedent. The principle operates in the building industries of a number of countries, including the United States of America. I am told on good authority that the incidence of permanency in the building industry in New South Wales is as low as 5 per cent. There seems to me to be a prima facie case for a very good and careful examination of this matter. I have read in the Press that the building unions intend to make a proper approach to Ministers of the Australian Government about the possibility of having this matter examined. The Federal Ministers who will be involved are responsible for a very wide area of administration. I believe that the Minister for Labour, the Minister for Works, the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and I would be concerned. Such an examination would cover a very wide area, but I believe that a request of this nature could be made. 'If the unions make a sensible approach to this Government, the Ministers whom I have nominated will work sensibly together to cause this matter to be properly evaluated. I hope that our efforts will have a conciliatory effect and bring about a return to work and effective production in the building industry. 
 Time will not permit me to speak at great length because honourable members have commitments outside the House. I acknowledge the contribution made by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and our other colleagues in the House in respect of this very important legislation which will affect the well being of low income earning people so far as State housing authority homes are concerned for the next 5 years. Of course, that depends on whether or not the States acquiesce in this arrangement. The purpose of this Bill is to facilitate Commonwealth approval. At this stage, the House is dealing with an amendment moved by the Opposition to increase the incidence of sales of government houses permitted by the authority itself from 30 per cent to 50 per cent. 
It is true that this matter has been the subject of considerable discussion. In fact, discussions have been going on for several months. My first statement about the agreement was made on 16 January and we had our first meeting with the first State involved, New South Wales, on 8 February. From there, each State was met separately and after that, of course, there were 2 conferences of State and Commonwealth Ministers, one on 23 March and one on 5 April. Through the course of these conferences, this question of the incidence of sales was discussed at considerable length. I might say that there were State housing officers who during the course of these conferences contended that there was very great need to build up the stock of rental homes. The Commonwealth is certainly not in isolation in this contention. 
It might interest the House to know, although I must not spend much time on this, that there are distinguished members of the Opposition who share the Government's view on this matter. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald 
Cameron) is aware that one of his colleagues recently said a number of things in this connection which bear very effectively on the subject matter before the Committee. For example, he said: 
One of the obvious shortages in the housing field in Australia is housing for rental. We have probably reached the stage where home ownership has been relatively overdone. 
This is a statement by a distinguished member of the Opposition. He continued: 
We now have an increasingly mobile population which needs to shift from place to place and' not to undertake long term commitments like buying  a  house. These people need to rent houses and to be able to move quickly from one place to another. 
He made many similar statements: 
Unfortunately, housing for rental has declined for a number of reasons, one of which is the construction activities of State housing commissions. These vary from State to State. 
He went on: 
The advice which the commissioners give to their Ministers is to obtain as much money from the Commonwealth as possible and then to sell as many homes as they can so that they, get the money back and fill up their coffers. Then they can turn over their investment and build still more houses and sell them. . . . This diversion of housing commission resources into building for sale has absorbed altogether too much of their total resources. 
Another comment that this distinguished gentleman made was: 
I believe that public moneys for housing have been in some degrees misapplied. For instance, many houses sold by the State housing commissions have worked out as nice little capital gains for their purchasers. 
He went on to say: 
I believe that the Minister - 
He was referring to me -  is right in tilting the housing commission operations much more towards the provision of rental accommodation, whichis what Australia badly needs overall. 
These were strong contentions. Who would honourable members think made that statement? 
It was none other than a former Liberal Commonwealth Treasurer and Minister for Housing, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury).  These remarks were made on 1 May. So all the pillorying that is being directed at me is obviously being directed about the former Treasurer and Minister for Housing who, regrettably, has not had the support of his colleagues in bygone days in giving effect to the very strong views that he has in respectof what he described as 'misdirection of funds'. 
So, people who look at these matters very seriously and who do not just drop in for a hit and run kind of operation come to recognise that there are highly deleterious effects from selling off government houses to the extent that has been going on. The houses built between 1947-48 and 1971-72 which have been sold, number 104,000; there are 160,000 left. The number of people applying for houses is increasing day by day. It is the firm belief of the Commonwealth that we should be building up the stock of rental homes because many people who pass through the. system do not go into a housing commission home to stay there forever. It is our obligation, and indeed this Government's commitment, to do everything it can to provide shelter for people. We would love to make it elaborate but at least we ought to make it adequate. This will probably result in modest shelter being made available. Many people going into State housing authority homes will find that they are inadequate as their affluence develops. These homes will not have a double garage or a rumpus room and so the people will go on to the building societies and the banks to acquire new homes. We have to make certain that there are adequate homes to give people shelter and, as has been said, we have been selling them off at too fast a rate. There is a need for some degree of moratorium as the honourable member for Wentworth has said. 
I have mentioned only a few of the fervent things the honourable member for Wentworth said in this regard. 1 have other statements here but time will not permit me to talk about them at length. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  just the other day made contentions in this House to the effect that people should not be permitted to stay in rental homes. If honourable members want the quotation, I will read it to them. 
Government supporters - No. 
The statement was made on 12 April; I leave it to honourable members to read it for themselves. The honourable member for Bennelong made the point that as the affluence of people developed they should not be allowed to stay in rental homes. How can we reconcile this statement with the Opposition's contention that affluence can develop and we should allow them to buy homes and stay in them? We are not going as far as the honourable member for Bennelong. We believe that people should be able to purchase State housing authority homes and we are proposing under this legislation that 30 per cent of the funds advanced to the State housing authorities be diverted through the Home Builders Account to the terminating societies. These are societies which meet the need of an identifiable category of people - people on low incomes - so that they have the opportunity of purchasing a home. We are proposing that 30 per cent of the funds be used for that purpose. 
Additionally, we are proposing that the State housing authorities be permitted to sell 30 per cent of the homes which they construct in a year. We have had regard to the particular situation in Tasmania, with the approval of all the Ministers, so. that in Tasmania for the first year the authority can sell 50 per cent of its homes, in the second year 40 per cent, and in the third year all the States will be in line. Maybe the time will come, with the large amounts of money which we hope to make available, when we will overcome this great waiting backlog of 93,000 people. That is our first obligation - to give people shelter. After that, we can start to embellish these homes, provide people with nicer homes and give them a chance to buy these homes, financed at a concessional rate by the Australian taxpayer. But we want to make certain that we build up our stock of rental homes because the replacement cost is extremely high. In New South Wales, for example, if the remaining government houses were sold - houses to the value of $127m - it would, according to the State housing authority, cost $500m to replace them. We do not propose to be irresponsible about this. Priority is what guides this Government in all areas and certainly this is the case in regard to housing. 
I take this opportunity to acknowledge the very considerable co-operation which has been extended to me by the State Housing Ministers. Despite the excessive controversy which has been waged in a public way through the Press, all of us together have compromised a great deal and 1 believe that we have formulated an agreement which will be a milestone in Australian housing and which will give many many people the opportunity to enjoy decent housing conditions in the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Elaboration of the considerations referred to is not practical. These factors will be given regard to in their proper perspective when decisions are taken as to the award of contracts. The Honourable Member is referred to the statement made by the Minister for Works in the Senate on 6 March, 1973 in reply to a question by  Senator McManus. 
Yes. 
See answer to Parts (1) and (4). 
See answerto Part (1). It is not possible to answer this question. However, it must be borne in mind that there are many other factors which have to be taken into account when deciding whom the successful tenderer will be; for example past and present performance records; current commitments; resources of management, finance, labour and plant; experience in a particular type of construction and so on. 
From information available to me. 
I have read this morning that the New South Wales Government proposes to increase housing commission rents and there is speculation to the effect that some 60,000 tenants may be affected by these proposed increases. I understand that the increases could go as high at $2 a week, as the honourable member indicated. It is true also that the New South Wales Government previously left increases at a maximum of SOc a week, which is not in keeping with the attitude of the Australian Government, which takes the view that annual rental reviews should be undertaken to avoid large scale increases. The more significant thing is that the proposed new housing agreement could have the effect of facilitating much lower rentals for housing authority homes. As I understand it, the difference between the rate of interest which is being offered under the new agreement, that is, 4 per cent as against 6.5 per cent which is the current bond rate, would alter the average rent in New South Wales to the extent of $3 a week. So there is a lot to be said for the New South Wales and other State governments supporting the proposed agreement if they have an interest in keeping housing commission rents down. 
Another matter which I mention in passing is that the announcement made on behalf of the Government yesterday in regard to the proposal to set up a task force to develop a uniform building code around Australia will also affect this area very significantly. The fact is that we spent last year $ 1,750m on housing. It is conservatively estimated that uniform building codes would provide a saving of 6 per cent. Interpreting this, on Australian housing we can save $105m each year if the States co-operate, as I feel confident they will do, with our efforts to contrive and introduce uniform codes throughout Australia. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Windsor Telephone Exchange, Victoria. 
The proposal involves the construction of a 37.18 metre high reinforced concrete framed building, externally clad with clay bricks, and fully air-conditioned, with a systems reliability compatible with that of the specialist PostmasterGeneral's Department equipment to be installed. Emergency generating plant is included and special attention has been paid to the decor of the manual assistance centres where carpet tiles, acoustic ceilings and detailed interior design will create a pleasant working environment. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $6m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the new facilities to be housed in the proposed building, that the site was suitable, and recommended that the work proceed. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 in reply - I want to express appreciation for the co-operative attitude that generally has been taken in respect of this 
Bill. As I listened to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  I could not help feeling that his speech was rather synonymous with the kind of speech that was made many years ago when the first Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority was set up. That Authority became a great success. The doubting Thomases of the Parliament were around in those days, as they are today. They evince a lack of faith and enthusiasm in public enterprise. The fact of the matter is, as history demonstrates, that the Authority took on work important to Australia which private enterprise would never have contemplated. It seems to me to be a very real likelihood that the newly-structured Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation will go on to do likewise. It also seems to me that the involvement that the body will have in overseas activities will probably end up being to the advantage of even private engineering concerns in Australia. 
It is a big league which our own private enterprise entrepreneurs have not always been able to move into to the extent that they would like. The imprimatur which is given to a governmental authority of this kind can be extremely beneficial not only from the point of view of establishing the buoyancy of the enterprise itself but also as a lead lamb, if you like, which will cause there to be a rub-off benefit for many private enterprise establishments in Australia. One honourable gentleman referred to public funds being used. It is important for us to take note of the fact that the Snowy Mountains Authority over the years has demonstrated its earning capacity. It has been more than self-sustaining. An extremely limited amount of governmental funds was injected into this activity. It was probably in the vicinity of $lm and it was used for very secondary purposes. I doubt whether the kind of fear expressed by the Leader of the Country Party can be justified. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  referred to the fact that after decades we now have a situation in which there is an authority with the capacity to calculate its land and site requirements for its various purposes. It seems to me that his suggestion that we should evaluate the usefulness of this land for public purposes before any disposal is engaged in was a very useful one. I have noted his comments that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  might undertake such an evaluation in co-operation with the other Ministers concerned so that we can ensure that, in the event of any land being surplus to the requirements of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, we can set about using it for purposes that are compatible with the public interest. I think that is the spirit of what the honourable gentleman said. 
What has occurred here today is a manifestation of the enthusiasm which this Parliament generally has for the Snowy Mountains scheme and the great work which has been done over the years. The Corporation is one of the very finest organisations which our country has ever seen. It is good that there has been an absence of fierce controversy in this debate. In fact I sensed a degree of imprimatur and enthusiasm from honourable gentlemen opposite. I sincerely hope that the hopes we have on this side of the House for the success of the new instrumentality with its widened area of powers might be substantiated and that the people of Australia will benefit as a consequence. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The honourable member for Swan,  Senator Cant  and  Senator Wilkinson  recently discussed with me the prospects of utilising land which was made available to or purchased by the Commonwealth, I think in 1946, in the Belmont area of Perth. I understand that about 18 acres of land which has now become quite expensive, is available for use in one form or another. The honourable member's representations have been discussed by me with the Minister for Services and Property. We are now evaluating a proposal that the land might be developed for various housing purposes including the housing needs of students, migrants, young married couples, aged persons and potential beneficiaries under Defence Service Homes Act. The scheme which has been put to the Minister for Services and Property and me also incorporates proposals involving plaza development, landscaping and the possible utilisation of the site for office development. Yesterday I talked to the Minister for Housing in Western Australia,  Mr Bickerton,  about this and I informed him that we were contemplating looking at this matter in a general way and that subsequently we probably would have a feasibility study undertaken in co-operation with State authorities and also the local authorities. The Minister indicated his approval of this course of action. If it eventuated it would be a very significant event involving an effective form of partnership between local, State and Federal government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive statistics are not maintained in respect of persons residing or wishing to reside on farms but the total number of applications determined in respect of homes located in rural areas, as distinct from metropolitan cities or country towns, from commencement of the Home Savings Grant Schemein July 1964 to 31 March 1973 was 4,384. 
3,797 of these applications were successful. 
Separate statistics are not maintained of the reasons for rejection of applications In respect of homes in rural areas as distinct from those in metropolitan cities or country towns. Since inception of the Scheme the most common reasons for rejection of applications have been the failure of applicants to hold savings in an acceptable form over the required minimum period of 3 years and the value of the home exceeding the statutory limit applicable at the relevant time. 
National Servicemen Remaining in the Army (Question No. 398) 
 The  answer  to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
It is impossible to set out the information supplied by the State Housing authorities in a manner that would permit direct comparison. This is so because of variations between the States in such factors as the proximity of the land being used to the capital city centre, the date of acquisition of the land, whether the land was purchased in a developed state or was bought 'raw' and developed by the housing authority, the extent of development required, and whether the land was bought in small quantities or in broad acres. 
(1)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) The bulk of funds available to a State for housing purposes comes from loan moneys raised and allocated under Loan Council arrangements. From its share of the Loan Council borrowing program for works and housing. South Australia allocated $14,350,000 to the South Australian Housing Trust and $15,500,000 to the Home Builders' Account in the State Treasury. 
Funds have been made available by the Commonwealth to the South Australian Government in 1972- 73 for housing in accordance with the following arrangements: 
States Grants (Housing) Act 1971  -  Grants made to the States for housing purposes are in two forms, a basic Housing Grant and a Rental Assistance Grant. The Housing Grant is applied to reduce the amount that would otherwise have been paid by persons renting or buying homes from a State housing authority, or building or purchasing a home through the Home Builders' Account of the State. The Rental Assistance Grant is a general Commonwealth contribution towards the cost to the State housing authorities of charging reduced rents to families they regard as being in need of this special assistance. In 1972-73 a Housing Grant of $940,500 has been paid to South Australia and allocated by the State, $627,000 to the Housing Trust and $313,500 to the Home Builders' Account. A Rental Assistance Grant of $152,500 has been paid to the State and allocated to the Housing Trust. 
States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969  -  Grants are provided by the Commonwealth as specific assistance to State housing authorities for the construction of self-contained dwelling units for certain single aged and service pensioners. In 1972-73 to date, $227,000 has been paid to the South Australian Housing Trust. 
Housing Assistance Act 1973  -  An amount of $500,000 is being advanced in 1972-73 to South Australia to make possible the commencement of construction or purchase by the Housing Trust of dwellings that would not otherwise have been commenced or purchased in 1972-73. 
Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement (Servicemen) - An amount of $88,000 is being advanced in 1972-73 to South Australia for the construction by the Housing Trust of houses required for allotment to servicemen. 
States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act 1972  -  This Act which is administered by my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, provides for financial assistance by way of grants in connection with the welfare and advancement of the Aboriginal people living in the States. The amount originally made available to South Australia for Aboriginal housing in 1972-73 was $340,000. An additional grant of $350,000 has been allocated to South Australia under the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act 1973 bringing the total advances for housing in the 1972-73 financial year to $690,000. Further information on Aboriginal housing in relation to later parts of this question may be obtained through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
Information as to the actual expenditure from the funds shown referred to under (1) will not be available until the accounts have been finalised after the end of the 1972-73 financial year. 
and (4) Guidelines for the allocation of the funds shown in part (1) are set down in the relevant Acts and Agreements. Briefly, the main provisions are: 
States Grants (Housing) Act 1971- The State loan moneys set aside in a year for housing that are subject to Commonwealth financial assistance under the Act are to be used as provided for in section 3(2) of the Act. The Act provides that, except in special circumstances agreed to by the Minister, at least thirty per cent of the amount set aside by the State in a year for housing shall be credited to a special account for the purpose of making loans to building societies or, as approved by the Minister, to other bodies. At least thirty per cent of the Housing Grant paid to the State in a year is also to be credited to the Account, referred to as the Home Builders' Account. The remainder of the State loan moneys and the remainder of the Housing Grant is to be made available to the Housing authority of the State. The Act provides for the Rental Assistance Grant to be paid  in  the year to the State housing authority. 
States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969  -  The Minister may authorise payments of grants to a State, up to the amount provided for in the Act,  in  relation to building schemes approved by the Minister in connection with the provision of selfcontained dwelling units for eligible pensioners. 
Housing Assistance Act 1973- The Act provides for financial assistance by way, of loans to the States  in  the amounts provided for in the Act, for allocation to the State housing authorities. Homes becoming available through the operation of this Act are to be leased to approved applicants. The loans are repayable over S3 years with interest at 4 per cent per annum. 
Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement (Servicemen) - Advances are provided by the Commonwealth to meet the full cost to the States of the provision by the State housing authorities of new dwellings, and the improvement of existing dwellings, rented to serving members of the Defence Forces. The amount of the advances is determined in relation to the cost of programmes established by consultation and agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. Advances are repayable over S3 years with interest at the long term bond rate current at the time each advance is made. Guidelines are not set down in the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971, or in the other legislation mentioned, for assessing repayments or rentals but those adopted by the South Australian Government are as follows: 
Determination of Rents - The South Australian Housing Trust calculates an economic rent according to the basic formula set down in the 1945 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement but the actual rent chargedis that which the Board of the Trust determines as being reasonable according to current conditions. The economic rent formula provides for the capital cost of the dwelling to be amortised over 53 years with interest, and for the recovery of other costs and charges associated with the dwelling, such as municipal rates, maintenance, administration, and insurance. The amortisation factor is not taken into account in the calculation of rents for aged pensioners because the Commonwealth grants involved are non-repayable and interest free. 
Repayments - The sale of a home by the South Australian Housing Trust may be effected on the basis of a $100 deposit with the balance of the purchase price becoming the amount of the loan repayable over a maximum term of 40 years at 51/4 per cent interest Home Builders' Account loans are available to borrowers from certain approved Permanent Building Societies and from the State Bank of South Australia up to a maximum of $10,000 for new dwellings and $9,000 for existing dwellings. Each will lend up to 95 per cent of valuation, if the loan is insured, at an interest rate of 6 per cent per annum. The maximum term of repayment varies between each Society, and the Bank, from 25 to 40 years. 
The State is required to furnish statements, certified by its Auditor-General setting out the allocation and/or expenditure, as appropriate, of the funds provided. 
-I think the simple answer is that the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement has not yet been signed. The Victorian Minister has announced his intention to increase the rents of 45,000 tenants by, I think, $3 a week prior to the Agreement being signed. In the Agreement there is a provision requiring the States to review rents annually. I took the view that this was desirable rather than having a triennial approach to the problem which resulted in people being required to meet large increases in rents. I do not disparage the fact that the Victorian Minister has found it necessary to increase rents. What I do disparage is his tendency to blame the Commonwealth Government, particularly in the light of the proposed Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. As I understand it he is attempting to mislead the Victorian people by asking them to believe that it is because of the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement that the rents are to be increased. The fact of the matter is that under this Agreement the allocation of funds has gone up to $2 18m as against $166m for the previous year. Victoria's allocation has been increased from $39m to $53m at a concessional rate of 4 per cent instead of the  6  per cent which would have been paid if the Agreement had not been introduced. In any case, under this agreement, the Victorian Government has received everything it has asked for. Without this agreement the tenants in Victorian Housing Commission homes would be subjected to a much greater rental than is proposed at present. I feel very sorry that the Victorian Housing Minister is continuing to misconstrue the facts associated with this agreement. I think that he ought to face up to the matter as the New South Wales Government does. He is saying now that the Victorians ought to cut even. The fact is that in New South Wales the Housing Commission has been subsidising rents to the extent of $2.5m or more a year in order to ensure that low income people are not subjected to a rental rate which exceeds their paying capacity. 
The Ministry of Housing does not have responsibility for the housing of parliamentarians, although I would not mind if it did. What I would like to do today is to join my colleagues the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and to make up a troika, if you like - although some would prefer to call it a trinity - of ministerial backing and support for the point of view put very capably by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development not just in the House today by way of a competent speech but also in his very informative and stimulating document entitled 'New and Permanent Parliament House Feasibility Study' which has been circulated. 
It seems to me that what the Minister has put forward represents the very antithesis of inaction, complacency, lack of initiative and the atmosphere which has prevailed in the past and which is characteristic of perpetual procrastination. I can sense on both sides of the House today a feeling of impatience and a need to face the facts of life as they stand and as they are emerging and evolving. It is apparent that we need a new parliament house and it is apparent that a decision needs to be taken very early. I am not here to disparage the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who is a catalytic member in this contemporary situation, but I am slightly at variance with him in the sense that I uphold and emphasise the characteristics of the amendment which my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has put forward because he is saying that action should be taken forthwith to initiate the planning, the design and so on. He has said that the design should encompass the total building complex but should permit staged construction and that the new building should be on Camp Hill. I support that proposal for the reasons put forward by the preceding  speaker,  the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and others and for reasons that I will enunciate. 
I, of course, stand firmly for the proposition put by the Minister that there ought to be a coming together of the 2 Houses of Parliament; that there ought to be a joint meeting and it ought to take place very quickly. It would be very nice to hope that we could take a vote today to facilitate that bringing together of the 2 Houses of Parliament, because what we are dealing with represents a crisis in the history of this country. We are working in a disaster area. We will get disastrous results if we go on working in the way we have been working. This parliamentary institution could easily break down. It is already suffering quite severely from the inadequate provisions of the Parliament. Moreover, members of the public themselves are deprived of the democratic participating opportunities which properly ought to characterise our approach to governmental affairs. 
In another context I can put my view that the way we run this place is crazy in the sense that one  speaker  stands up to speak and the rest of the human resources in this place are rendered almost ineffective and inactive. It seems to me that we will evolve in such a way that we will have concurrent committees working in a number of buildings around the Parliament. We do not even have adequate committee rooms of small sizes to enable the democratic participation of parliamentarians to take place, let alone substantial meeting places. 
There are so many reasons why one can feel enthusiastic about this matter. One of the virtues of utilising the Camp Hill site, which as all honourable members know but the public at large may not know is the site immediately behind this Parliament House - the King O'Malley site and I think, the area where the King O'Malley memorial is located - as against the Capital Hill site is that Capital Hill will be left with all its environmental virtues, its softness and its greenness which Canberra deserves. In the face of the raging controversy about the utilisation of Black Mountain for telecommunications purposes, it could be regarded as some placation for the environmentalists, the conservationists and the people who are concerned with ecology. By utilising Camp Hill, we could preserve the great Capital Hill site as a soft, green area encompassed by the ring road. For that reason and for a number of other reasons, I am extremely enthusiastic about the proposal to use Camp Hill. 
One of my colleagues has talked about the maintenance costs for this building. At present the costs are running at $120,000 a year. We have heard from several honourable members about plumbing breakdowns and electricity failures and all sorts of things being in need of replacement. The airconditioning in this building is limited to the most recent additions to it. We all know the degrading things that happen to this Parliament House. Take the leaking roof. We have had great gala occasions in this place with Royalty in attendance, and the attendants have been rushing around with buckets and poking them under rainwater dripping from the roof. There are cramped galleries that people cannot get into. It is no wonder that we get such a distorted account of parliamentary proceedings when members of the Press are required to operate in what may be called rat holes. Their quarters are inadequate. These are the people who have the job of communicating to the country at large the activities of the Parliament. They cannot do their work in this inadequate situation. Take a look at the cosmetic surgery that has been done on this building and the patching-up program. How many more ad hoc additions at a cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars are going to take place? We have recently had another addition to the building to accommodate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other members of the Ministry. Some Ministers are working with their staff in office accommodation which would not do justice to a fifth grade estate agent. 
The whole situation is superseded by facilities provided in some of the State parliaments. For example, the State Parliament in Western Australia makes this place look like a barn. The prestige of this Parliament is being sent down the drain. If honourable members walk along the lino covered corridors of the House of Representatives they almost go through the rat ridden floors. 1 think the termite people were called in some years ago. The floor moves underneath you when you walk on it. One of our parliamentary heavies one day will go right through the flooring. There is not much need to talk about the inadequate dining facilities and parking facilities. lt is a fact that there are no proper interviewing rooms. There is no proper place for people to assemble. We are in an area where we have to accept the democratisation processes which are sweeping the world. Once upon a time we looked quite glumly at the prospect of a group of people coming to Parliament House, but now all of us know that this is essential and that the voice of the people has to ring out. Even in the report of the Joint Select Committee on the New and 
Permanent Parliament House which was submitted in March 1970  -  an excellent report - there is the contention that we should make provision for the demonstrator to get right into the heart of the Parliament and to have access to parliamentarians. I believe that sort of thing is overdue and the country will suffer unless we do something about this in the near future. 
I like the Camp Hill site, which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is advocating, because its facilitates the gradual transformation of all these inadequate things I have talked about. There is no cutting off point. The Minister has proposed that we should start off at the back of this building with a bridge across the road. The walking time from that area would be similar to the time taken by the Prime Minister to walk the distance he has had to walk in response to division bells, for example, until recent times. He has now shifted his office into the new accommodation. If the Prime Minister can do it, we can do it. In a short time all honourable members could move into adequate accommodation using this chamber, the Senate chamber, Kings Hall and the other facilities until the phasing-in program is completed. I especially like the idea of moving to Camp Hill because it will make available this large piece of land which eventually will encompass the site upon which this building is located. It will preserve the historical significance of the site. 
It is interesting to note that the square in front of the Parliament in Washington is 20i acres. In Ottawa it is 7i acres and in Singapore it is 14 acres. In the event of the utilisation of Camp Hill, 55 acres will be available between the new parliament house and Lake Burley Griffin. I think the proposal has a great deal to commend it. Of course, overriding everything is the Burley Griffin concept to which reference has been made. The fact of the matter is that in this preeminent triangle we will achieve a form of development which will accompany things of national significance - the National Parliament, the seat of the Australian Government, the National Library and the National Gallery. These will all be in the precincts of the location of significant policy making instrumentalities, such as the Department of Foreign Affairs building - which is across the road - and the Treasury building. All this adds up to something which represents an exciting concept. I believe it is time for us to grasp the nettle. I hope today will send us in the direction of positive achievement. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Developoment, in moving his amendment, told us that if we start now the processes of calling for design competition entries and the like, it will result in the whole project being fulfilled over a decade. Ten years from now we can expect to have a new parliament house. Construction ought to be started in June 1977. That is far enough away but it will take all that time to begin construction, even if we commence right now. By June 1979 we could have the substantial area of expectation fulfilled. Paragraph 4, page 7, of the Report of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, states: 
Parliament House as a Symbol. 
Canberra exists as the Seat of Government of the Commonwealth. The very nature of the role of the 'Parliament in Government in Australia demands that it be housed in a structure of pre-eminence in the National Capital. The new and permanent Parliament House must be a monumental and prestige building, standing as an impressive symbol of Australia's unity and proudly reflecting the Nation's progress and its faith in a democratic way of life. 
No one can have faith in a democratic way of life or in the parliamentary institution if in the face of all our contentions and declared desire to achieve a new parliament house we lack of competency to agree and take a decision. I believe that the Parliament on the occasion of this historical debate is faced with a challenge. I hope the new Government will show even more initiative than predecessor governments and that in the near future we will take a decision, sweeping aside the barriers of party politics and sweeping aside the barriers of the upper and lower Houses and all the rest of it. We should recognise that the needs of the country are such that we have  to  get this institution in working order with all the benefits and aids that are represented by a new parliamentary building. 
If one looks at the space which members are to have in terms of office accommodation, facilities and so on as suggested in the excellent report given by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, one will see how the present situation compares with what is needed and one will realise that the job is an urgent one. I hope that a decision will be taken today so that the building of the new parliament house can begin as quickly as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As many factors in addition to the rate of construction, such as changes in interest rates, in the prices of building materials and in labour awards, affect the cost and price of new dwellings and the impact of these factors varies from quarter to quarter, the cost and price of new dwelling units could continue to rise at a time when fewer units were being built. Because of the complex issues involved, the Australian Government has so far made no attempt to quantify the desirable physical level of new dwelling construction. 
No target was established for 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of buildings not owned by the Commonwealth but occupied by the Department of Works in each State are as follows: 
Of course there is a housing shortage in Australia. Of course there is a housing boom. Of course there are a number of houses which are vacant. There seems to be some deterioration in the honourable member's capacity to engage effectively in his previous profession. There is a serious housing crisis in Australia and there is a boom in housing which, together, put a very unreasonable strain on available resources. This undesirable and highly deleterious situation is the product of the previous Government's indifference to the obvious need to engage in effective planning. I think the honourable gentleman and the House might be interested to know that I, with my Department, am currently engaged in negotiations with the various sections of industry - trade unions, manufacturers of materials and builders - in order to contrive the ways and means of setting targets and objectives. I told the honourable member for Wentworth recently that we have not as yet achieved that, but I certainly did not indicate to him that it was intended to do nothing about it. 
At present we have this shortage of houses, a shortage of building tradesmen and the like. I have heard what the Treasurer has said. He has talked about the need for a moderate abatement in the flow of housing finance in order to ensure that we get the inflationary pressure off the industry so that houses can be made available at reasonable rates to the people who need them. I do not fall completely for the economic pundits whose attitudes in the past have resulted in a boom and bust situation. I believe that it is necessary to bring stability to this industry. I have often said that it has been described as the burnt offering in economic crises. I do not want it to be the sacrificial lamb because housing is a primary necessity. So I am hoping - I have talked to the Treasurer about this - that the moderate abatement which is predicted and proposed will have some relationship to the country's capacity effectively to equate its tradesmen resource to the flow of finance, especially to the unplacated and unsatisfied demand of housing. This Government is determined to overcome as quickly as possible the desperate housing shortage in Australia. Towards that end we will be bringing things into relationship one with the other - manpower, materials and the flow of money. Towards that end we will be setting up proper planning processes. In the interim we have to put up with the problems referred to. 
More especially still, we are looking at the cost of materials. In that respect we have set up a parliamentry committee, and it is dealing with the fundamentals of life - food, clothing and shelter. Currently it is looking at building material prices. In addition we have innovated our Prices Justification Tribunal which also will become involved in this matter. Thirdly and importantly, we do not intend to be inactive any longer about the spiralling cost of land. My colleague, the Minister of Urban Development, has already been in effective consultation with the States for the purpose of establishing land commissions so that we can make an assault on this basic problem - a problem in respect of which too many people in this Parliament have waxed fat over the years. We want to get land out of the excessively exploitive area. When leasehold land becomes available on a large scale it will have a regulatory effect on land prices. All these things together will bring to bear the kind of answer which for too long has been lacking in this country. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The implementation of housing policies by the New Zealand and Australian Governments differs in many respects which usually result from the fact that New Zealand has a unitary Government and is therefore able to take direct action, whereas the Australian Federal system makes it necessary for the Government to act through the State Government's and through private institutions in cases where specific powers are not provided in the Australian Constitution. In Australia, the Government provides funds for housing for aged persons and low income people generally under the terms of the Housing Agreement with the six States and the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act. In addition aged persons' accommodation is provided through private and semi-Government bodies under the Aged Persons Homes Act. 
According to the Housing Agreement, advances by the Government to the States may be used by the State Housing Authorities to meet the cost of purchase, upgrading and renovation of dwellings, but the allocation of these dwellings to young married couples or to other persons is decided by the States. 
I have looked at the New Zealand system to which the honourable member refers and found it very interesting, but it would not be possible for the Australian Government to act in this direct fashion. 
Low Powered Television Transmitters: Ceduna and Woomera (Question  No.  669)  Mr Wallis  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has any definite date been set for the opening of the low powered television transmitters being erected at Ceduna and Woomera in the Electoral Division of Grey. 
When this Government took office in December last, there was no emergency accommodation in any State, the facilities which had previously been available having been jettisoned in the lifetime of the previous Government. If my memory serves me correctly, the honourable member's electorate contains the hostel known as Enterprise. The Enterprise hostel in Victoria is one of our modern and very successful establishments with accommodation for 1,000 people and is one in which the capacity is effectively utilised. It usually has in it about 900 persons, which is about the working rate of the hostel having regard to the . turnover of people. There needs to be a margin of vacant accommodation. In Australia there are about 2,800 hostel beds and in Melbourne there are 1,000 beds currently available which are surplus to immigra tion requirements. It is the declared intention of the Government to get maximum versatility in the utilisation of these facilities. 
Of course, a problem does exist. People who are waiting for State housing authority assistance do not always have the financial resources to meet the cost involved in the provision of full board and accommodation. However, I have made it clear in correspondence to the Victorian Minister that the Australian Government has a preparedness to make that accommodation available. I understand there were emergency facilities available at Camp Pell, which is in the vicinity of Melbourne, but these were found to be quite unsuitable. During the course of the negotiations with the Housing Ministers in connection, with the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement I indicated to each Minister my interest in ensuring that adequate emergency accommodation was available and stated that the Commonwealth would stand ready to assist in the provision of such facilities. However, it was made clear to me by the Victorian Minister of Housing that this was not considered to be a desirable form of assistance. So, our offer has not been taken up. In regard to the last aspect of the honourable gentleman's question, in the event of Service accommodation becoming available, it seems to me that it would be quite reasonable to utilise it. In fact, I would regard it as quite immoral not to utilise it for other purposes in the event of defence personnel not having a proper requirement for those facilities. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Department of Housing library holds a wide variety of reports as follows: 
AUSTRALIA. National Capital Development Commission 
Survey of flat dwellers. Canberra, 1959. 
The Budget debate concerns the expenditure of some $12, 168m - an enormous amount of money which is probably beyond the comprehension of most people. What is happening in Australia now is that this great resource is being allocated in a new way. As people would expect after 23 years of one type of administration, an alternative way of doing things is coming to bear. Our way of doing things is to identify our type of priority - the matters which are important to the well being of the people in Australia. 
This Budget is characterised by new dimensions and directions. It is interesting to see tangible evidence of a new partnership being forged with State governments and with local government instrumentalities as well. The headings of the Budget detail subjects the like of which have not been referred to for some decades. A substantial paragraph appears under the heading 'Cities' with an allocation of $136m towards the creation of what could well become the first new city for some decades. We think of Canberra being initiated back in the 1920s as a going operation. We think of the city of Elizabeth in South Australia outside Adelaide, perhaps one of the last cities to be created. After all the years of Liberal-Country Party administration there is nothing to show in respect of the obvious need for decentralisation and the business of taking the pressure off the great seething sultry cities where our people have been required to congregate. 
I am not disparaging it by any means. I am simply saying that it is a long time since it happened and it is time we got on with building some new cities. It is a good thing that at last there is a Labor Government doing something about it. I do not think anyone is going to quibble about the fact that we have allocated $136m for new cities and I hope honourable members opposite are not going to quibble with the fact that $33m has been allocated for growth centres, especially towards the creation of Albury-Wodonga as a living concept. 
Land commissions are to receive some $60m for the purpose of land acquisition so that we can get the pressure off land prices in the city and so that young people will be able to secure land at a nominal figure on a leasehold basis. Surely this is a significant development and a very real departure from the colourless and unimaginative program of the previous administration. The problems that people have encountered on the perimeters of our cities have also been taken into consideration. For example, there are 1.5 million people without sewerage facilities and our Government, for the first time, has seen the way to relate to the instrumentalities concerned by the provision of $30m. True, it is not sufficient because those instrumentalities need something like an additional $ 1,000m over the next decade above what they see in their sights as being their ordinary budgetary requirements. But we have broken the ice; we have commenced the process; we have pushed aside the old constitutional barrier which has been invoked far too often by our predecessors. 
The Government has taken new initiatives in transport. We are commencing to co-operate with the States in meeting the transportation needs of the urban dweller. This is going to have a very great impact on the quality of life of many millions of people in this country. We have commenced the assistance to the local government plan even before the constitutional convention which is to take place next week. We have allocated $5m to the deprived western region of Sydney and $3m to the deprived western region of Melbourne. We have said in an unambiguous and unequivocal way that we are going to go on and set up processes so that the Grants Commission can allocate funds to local government organised on a regional basis to remove the inequalities between regions in Australia. This is a proper manifestation of a new set of priorities and I believe that for many people in Australia it represents an exciting new era. 
Consistent with the declared objectives and the high priority of housing, I am pleased to say that there have also been large allocations of funds for that purpose. Total Government provision for housing has increased this year by 34 per cent from $370m to $495m. The main areas of spending are, firstly, the advances to the States under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement involving additional expenditure amounting to 26 per cent, taking the figure to $2 18.7m for the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement in our program for housing for low income people. Secondly, there is the Defence Services homes program. Honourable members opposite often accuse us of being indifferent to the defence needs of the country and those who serve in our defence forces but who can continue to say that in the face of these revelations: The allocation for defence service homes has increased by 37 per cent to $102m; the provision for housing in the territories is up by 31 per cent to $5 1.3m; and Aboriginal housing funds have increased by 123 per cent to $32.4m. Obviously, this is being effectively equated to the will of the people as expressed by way of referendum, the results of which to a great extent were ignored by our predecessors. In the area of aged persons' housing, it is notable that an increase of 18 per cent has occurred, taking the figure to $37.5m. As I have said, the allocations overall for housing have increased by 34 per cent, from $370m to $495m. Surely no one could accuse the Government of being indifferent to the housing problems in this country. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has acknowledged the housing situation and after the suspension of the sitting for dinner I should like to develop that subject because the Treasurer sensibly has recognised the fact that the building industry in Australia today is suffering from overheating. This is the problem that results from the lack of planning on the part of previous governments. Although we have adequate funds coming through, deficiencies exist in certain areas, especially in respect of the building force - the number of tradesmen available to execute the building program. In addition, there are some problems in connection with the supply of materials. But the fact is that the Treasurer has made some proposals about a moderate abatement in our private housing program. When the debate is resumed after dinner I will say what I believe that particular piece of terminology should represent because this is indeed an extremely sensitive area and to get too carried away with an abatement program could have highly deleterious effects. Yet I readily concede that something must be done to moderate the present boom conditions. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
I was discussing the Treasurer's proposal to undertake a moderate abatement in the flow of finance for housing. One will not have time to discuss the question of liquidity. It is a complex matter, but one thing seems likely - the possibility of a restoration of business confidence. There is a likelihood that more money will be in demand for manufacturing purposes, and I think it is important for the House to realise that it might not be very long before there is very real competition in the money market. We work in a very sensitive area in housing. We have to realise the possibility of unemployment if there is any tendency to be .heavy handed about matters. Fortunately the Government has the power, through its banking legislation, to regulate the flow of money, and fortunately this Government has the preparedness to do something about those matters. In addition, of course, if there is any decline in the housing industry and a threat of unemployment it is within our capacity to stimulate activity by putting even more money into the basic housing problem area, the area that concerns low income people. The Treasurer has made it clear that, against the traditions of the past, we do not limit our fiscal policy to the Budget concept. We have manoeuvrability subsequently and we will be prepared to invoke that. 
One matter of interest, of course, is the future of building societies. I suppose everyone, including the building societies and the people who invest iti them, is now coming to understand the significance of the Treasurer's proposal that building societies may well be brought under regulation. Such a move will be of great benefit to lenders because they will know that there will not be a continuation of the stop-go policies that have been characteristic of this area in the past. A characteristic of stability will come to bear and there will bc a lot of other things to do to make building societies play an effective, integratory role in our housing program. I hope that will include uniform State legislation, which the Commonwealth might take an initiative in preparing and proposing. Then I suppose we all hope we can avoid the proliferation of building societies, the kind of thing we saw with the hospital and medical benefit funds, with great unnecessary overhead expenses, duplicated office resources and things of that kind. 
I would like to make passing reference, in regard to the liquidity question, to the very heavy emphasis that has emerged in respect of finance company lending. The fact of the matter is that finance companies increased their lending in May to $128. 5m. This figure was 36 per cent up on the previous month. When we think of long term housing loans and the people who are involved, the business of subjecting them to repayments at 12 per cent interest is a most undesirable process. I hope the Government will be able to contrive the ways and means of ensuring that whatever role the finance companies are to have in the future it will not be an integral and basic rok in the provision of finance for housing. 
When the new Australian Government took office I discovered that the Holt Liberal- 
Country Party administration had instructed the Department of Housing that it had no policy role, that its function was merely to dole out to the States each year the funds decided upon at the Australian Loan Council, to administer the homes savings grant scheme, to look after the war service homes scheme as it was called then and generally to function merely as an administrative agency. The Government of the day did not want advice on how to set targets for housing, how to reduce the growing waiting lists for housing commission homes, how to build homes more efficiently or how to plan for the future. We are now left with the bitter fruits of that sterile attitude, of that weary Liberal refusal to resort to indicative planning or to set guide lines or to lay down directions - in short the curse of Australia, the 'she'll be right' attitude or syndrome. This is our inheritance, the legacy that has come to us. There is no machinery for planning, no long term housing targets, no guide lines for the lenders, the land developers, the builders or the manufacturers of materials. They do not know what is ahead of them from one day to the next or from one year to another. They are all left to operate in a vacuum. 
In a sense there is complete reliance on spontaneity, an unformulated process of syn.chonisation, to bring all these aspects together - the housing need, the building force, the flow of finance and the availability of land and material. We are not satisfied that we can operate successfully in such a situation. We believe that the housing industry is such a significant economic force in this country that without regulation we can have housing operating as a catalyst to unemployment, a catalyst to inflation. As quickly as we possibly can we will do something about setting up the machinery to analyse these projected needs. More than that is required. Obviously we will have to look at all the various components of the problem. There is the question, for example, of building materials. We know that there have been shortages which have been reflected in price increases. In fact the increase in building materials for the 12 months to July 1973 is in the vicinity of 7 per cent, and currently prices are increasing at an annual rate of 15 per cent - a frightening prospect. We recognise the problem and we are anxious to do something about it. We will only do something about it over a long term with the planning processes about which I have talked. 
Then there are manpower shortages. The country at large knows about the shortage of carpenters, bricklayers and other tradesmen. We will have to organise a program, again related to our targeting, to ensure that there is a flow of young men into the building industry. We will obviously have to initiate preapprenticeship training schemes. There is a lot to be said for having young men do a technical training course of perhaps 6 months and after that work as an apprentice in a block system, perhaps apprenticed to the Master Builders Association. These things are urgent and something has to happen in a hurry. We will have to do something about adult retraining. In addition there will have to be an added impetus in respect of selected immigration to build up our building force. 
Many other matters give me concern and 1 would certainly like an opportunity to talk longer about them tonight. The disorganised approach to the building needs of the community on the part of some of the lending authorities is a matter that needs a great deal of attention. In my discussions recently with building society representatives I asked one building society secretary how many loans his organisation would be making this year, and he said 4,000. As I discussed it with him I discovered that the process which is characteristic of building societies involved this kind of thing: 4,000 people would go and buy 4,000 blocks of land. Those blocks of land might have been sold a number of times over - the subject of exploitation - but after they were bought the building society people would send off 4,000 valuers, and 4,000 surveyors would probably be going out in different directions. In addition to that they would set about the business of building 4,000 houses all differently. There would be 4,000 plumbers arriving in 4,000 trucks, digging up 4,000 roads to put the water services on. There would be 4,000 yards of sand deposited here and there and there would be 4,000 buckets of lime. Everything would be disorganised and disintegrated. Obviously we have to set about this program in an estate project way, so that we can get conceptual attitudes and new living styles, a better product at lower price for the consumers. I regard the building industry as old fashioned, out of date and in need of complete reorganisation and overhaul. I would like the House to get the impression from what I am saying that this Government has the intention of encouraging the forces that are involved to get on with the job of remodernising the housing processes so that we can get better value for money, so that we can get efficient utilisation of our finance and efficient use of our building teams and the materials involved. There is a great challenge ahead for the building industry and I hope that we will see it characterised by a spirit of co-operation with all the sections involved. 
I acknowledge the honourable member's continued interest in this matter. It is true that the Department of 
Defence placed an order for 79 houses to meet the needs of naval personnel at HMAS Stirling' on Garden Island, Cockburn Sound. The matter has been the subject of some controversy between the Department of Defence and the Western Australian housing authority, the former preferring land at Kwinana and the latter preferring land at East Rockingham. I am pleased to be able to tell the honourable gentleman that recently - I think early in August - I had a discussion with the Western Australian Minister for Housing and we were able to reconcile the differing views to which I have referred. It is now intended to provide the 79 houses in the East Rockingham area. An exchange of land is involved and negotiations towards that end are in progress. Whether or not the provision of the houses is to be delayed will depend upon the priorities of the Department of Defence. I am able to give the honourable gentleman the assurance that the provision of houses will take place in such time as to ensure that the needs of the 79 families at HMAS 'Stirling' will be met at the appropriate time, that is, when they need them. 
This matter was previously raised by the honourable member and by  Senator Cant  and  Senator Wilkinson  from another place. Subsequent to discussions I had with the Minister for Services and Property I visited the site referred to in the Belmont area which had been acquired by the Commonwealth, I think in the war years. I met the Mayor and the Town  Clerk  and discussed the general proposition that the Commonwealth might join in a partnership with the local government authority and the State Government to develop this area in a desirable way in respect of the housing needs of students, pensioners, ex-servicemen, young married couples and others. Since that time I have caused an account of our discusions to be conveyed to my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development for evaluation. At present I am awaiting his views on this subject. One thing is certain, the Council representatives who were in attendance at the discussions seemed to have quite a reasonable attitude to the proposition that I put and there seems no doubt that if we do go on to effect an arrangement to develop this site with the support of the Commonwealth we will achieve a type of development which would be exemplary and which would set the pace for similar CommonwealthState partnership development in the future. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is .expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Palmerston arterial road at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposed work involves the construction of an arterial road from the business centre of Darwin to Lee Point Road in the northern suburbs. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $5. 6m. In August 1972, the Committee reported to Parliament on this proposal but subsequent to the tabling of the report a number of representations were made for and against the route recommended by the Committee. Particularly strong protests were registered by residents whose homes and properties would be acquired to make way for the road. In the circumstances the Government decided that the Committee should give further consideration to the proposal and submit a further report. After consideration of several alternative routes the Committee has now reported that there is a need for the work, that a route through the Fannie Bay area is the only practical one and that the route should follow route 3. All alternative routes through the Fannie Bay area involve the acquisition of some private property but route 3 to the least extent. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
For the information of honourable members I present the general conditions of contract, described as National Public Works Conference Edition 1, together with a brief explanatory statement. 
The Government is anxious to ensure that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation - a public authority - shall be given every possible opportunity to compete effectively with others in the business. That is the first thing. The second thing is that it has never been the policy of the Corporation under this Government or the previous Government to encourage the insuring of loans at high interest rates. To the extent that it is possible for the Corporation to influence interest rates and keep them at a low level, it does so. It is the intent of the Corporation to achieve wherever possible high ratio loans at low rates of interest. That is, we are not attracted by the idea of moving our insurable interest rate level up to the lead situation. The Victorian building societies moved their interest rates from 8) per cent to 8i per cent - an extremely substantial move. We are not over-anxious to give the impression that we would endorse that enthusiastically because that could have the effect of causing other building societies to move to a high level as well. The Corporation, however, has proposed to me that a review should take place for the purpose of raising the permissible rate of interest on insurable loans to 8J per cent and the proposal has received approval from the Treasurer. We were about to give effect to it when some movement took place with respect to the bond rate and, subsequently, to the rates associated with housing loans through the trading banks. The matter is now under review. In the near future I would expect that adjustments will be made to make it possible for the Corporation to receive a substantial pro portion of the business. If the Victorian building society movement does not take its interest rate too high, I hope that it will be incorporated effectively in the moves that the Government is about to determine. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer  -(Mr Crean)  to make advances not exceeding $327.975m to the States for welfare housing during 1973-74 and the first 6 months of 1974-75, in accordance with the provisions of the 1973 Housing Agreement. At its meeting last June, the Premiers' Conference decided on a program of $2 IS. 65m for welfare housing by the States for 1973-74, to be distributed among the States as shown in the first column of the schedule to the Bill. The Bill also provides for advances to be made to the States during the initial months of 1974-75, equivalent to one half of the advances agreed for 1973-74, as indicated in the second column of the schedule to the Bill. The amount of $218. 65m to be advanced to the States in 1973-74 represents an increase of 26 per cent on the amount spent by the States on welfare housing in 1972-73. 
The repayable, interest-bearing advances will, as circumstances dictate, be made from either the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund and will be on the terms and conditions set out in the Agreement to be made between the Commonwealth and each State, as authorised by the Housing Agreement Act 1973. Provision is made for any payments out of Consolidated Revenue Fund for this purpose to be reimbursed in due course from Loan Fund where the Treasurer considers this appropriate. The 1973 Housing Agreement now awaits formal ratification by the States before becoming operative for 5 years from 1 July 1973. Because advances to a State for welfare housing cannot be made until the Agreement is ratified by the State Parliament, funds for this purpose are being provided by way of advances supplementary to the advances made for works purposes under the approved Loan Council program, until such time as the authorising legislation has become effective. The Bill, therefore, contains a provision authorising the Treasurer, with the concurrence of the State, to deem any such advances made against a State's loan program for 1973-74 to have been advances for welfare housing. 
The greatest proportion of the $218.65m to be advanced to the States in 1973-74 will be paid to State housing authorities; the remainder - about 30 per cent - will be made available through home builders' accounts to terminating building societies and similar institutions in each State for loans to needy people seeking to acquire their own home. The advances made to the States under the Housing Agreement are repayable over a period of 53 years and bear interest at the rate of 4 per cent per annum on the proportion made available to the State housing authorities and at the rate of 41/2 per cent per annum on the proportion made available to terminating building societies and similar institutions through the home builders' accounts. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
'For the information of honourable members, I present the interim report of the Director of Defence Service Homes with statements and balance sheet for the year ended 30 June 1973. When the final report is available, I shall present it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970-1973, I present the third annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I think there are close on 9,000 terminating building societies in Australia. Most of them are distributed in the States of Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia. The terminating societies are insulated to some extent against the increases recently announced. This principally follows the successful negotiation of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which is currently before the House. The Agreement provides that 30 per cent of $21 8m, about $70m, made available under the Agreement is to be diverted to the terminating building societies through the home builders' account. It is fortunate for the recipients and potential recipients of home builders' account money that we have negotiated this agreement. The funds made available carry an interest rate of 4 per cent for the general purposes of the Agreement and 4J per cent in respect of terminating building societies which finally put their money out to borrowers at 5i per cent. 
There is a considerable increase in the amount of money to be utilised by the terminating building societies, particularly that part which derives from the Australian Government's support. Last financial year some $56m was made available under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. This year approximately $70m will be made available to provide housing assistance for the identifiable category of people who go to terminating building societies - those who receive an income in the vicinity of 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. The category of people who are assisted by State housing authorities receives in the vicinity of 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. In answer to the honourable member's question, there is a very considerable cushioning available which will greatly assist that low income category in this period of rising interest rates. 
The position is that under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement the funds are made available at 4 per cent for ordinary purposes and at 4 per cent for the home builders account which is a source of terminating building society funds. Those societies pass on that money to borrowers at a maximum of5 per cent interest, a highly concessional rate in the current situation. 
It is about half the funds which sustain terminating building societies. The honourable member oughtto appreciate that funds at5 per cent are highly concessional and that the action taken by this Government in providing a substantial increase the allocation will assist greatly to bring home ownership within the capacity of low income people. 
For the information of honourable members, I present an interim statement on the operation of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act for the year ended 30 June 1973. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a copy of an instrument dated 4 September 1973 made pursuant to section 5 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1955-1966 declaring a class of persons to be an approved class of lenders, together with a brief explanatory statement. 
Consistent with the declared attitude of the Prime Minister, it is intended that all Ministers will hold only one portfolio, and accordingly the 2 departments will be amalgamated. The marriage of the Departments of Works and Housing will bring the Department of Housing into association with about 14,000 employees of the Department of Works. The Department of Works is a very large and accomplished department, as honourable members know. It is responsible for servicing other departments and it expends something like $600m a year. When the merger takes place - it will not happen next week, of course, but it will happen as quickly as possible because there is a need to take into account the welfare of the employees - it is likely that the amalgamated department will be called the Department of Construction and Housing. It seems to me that considerable benefits would accrue to the housing industry by bringing the expertise of the Department of Works into relationship with housing. About half the personnel of the Department of Works comprises a technical force of engineers, architects and the like of world renown and they undertake work of a very important nature overseas. The expertise in the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation also would be available to assist in endeavours that might be directed towards the housing industry. It seems to me that there is a great deal of merit in heading out to achieve every possible degree of economy and efficiency in the utilisation of all our construction resources, whether they are manpower, material or anything else. This Government's inclination is not to put housing into a backwater. It is the intention of the Australian Government to take whatever initiatives it can, in proper consultation with the States, to undertake housing enterprises in the name of the Australian Government Towards that end there will be hard and accelerated application to such matters as national building codes and research authorities so that we can' get into proper relationship the 3 facets of the construction industry - money, manpower and materials. In addition we will be looking at ways of building houses less expensively, and I am hoping that it will not be long before the Government gives approval to a proposal to introduce a task force which will examine- 
Another one, but it is regrettable that in the 23 years of Liberal administration no headway was made towards meeting the need to produce houses less expensively. In the words of Rudyard Kipling: How very little since things were made, things have altered in the building trade. We will make certain that things do alter in the building trade in the sense that we will produce houses in an inexpensive way as quickly as possible. I mention these matters to indicate the potential which will derive from the sensible bringing together of these 2 departments, and I have no doubt that home seeking Australians will derive very great benefit when effect is given to these amalgamations. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Dripstone High School, Darwin. 
The proposed school is designed to cater for 1,100 pupils and is required for occupancy at the commencement of the 1977 school year. It will comprise the following major elements of accommodation: Administration, libraryresource centre, subject areas, science department, art-craft department, theatre, assembly area and lunch area and canteen. Several of the facilities will be available for use by the community outside school hours. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4.37m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has paid a worthy tribute to my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I was pleased to see the right honourable gentleman put it in such a practical way. I recall talking to an Aboriginal in a hotel in the Northern Territory and asking him what he thought about assimilation versus integration and he said: 'Are they starters in the Melbourne Cup, boss?' I think that very often we can become highfaluting and get well away from the attitudes, concepts and aspirations of the Aboriginal people. Although that can be said about a lot of people no one can say it in regard to the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
The right honourable member for Higgins made some passing reference - an innuendo if you like - about something that might have happened. He referred to people bypassing Ministers and going from departments to Prime Ministers. I think that we ought to be very wary of a consideration of this kind. I feel quite certain that the right honourable gentleman who himself has been the victim of innuendo, insinuation- 
Back stabbing, snide vilification and open vilification would be in the vanguard of those who would criticise people who tend to exploit that kind of unfounded contention. That is all we can say about it. 
The honourable member for Isaacs asks: 'Is it unfounded?' I say to him: 'Is it founded?' If it is not founded, then I say do not go on with this pursuance of an hypothetical innuendo of the type we all disparage. There is not a long tune in this debate to say whatever is to be said. I have made a number of speeches on Aboriginal Affairs over the years and I do not intend to do this today. What I do want to say is this: After the eulogistic comments that have been made about the honourable member for Wills in respect of the administration of the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs all we can say is that obviously he is a godsend to the Australian Capital Territory. There are great problems in the Australian Capital Territory - of course, not as many as there used to be, thanks to the Minister recently retired from that portfolio - but, having heard the unanimity with which the praise has been heaped on our colleague, the honourable member for Wills, we recognise the fact that he has another great challenge right at his fingertips. He is going from one challenge to another and he is obviously virtuous enough to make a very great advancement on the good work already achieved in the Australian Capital Territory by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby). 
I have been associated with the honourable member for Wills in the matter of Aboriginal affairs for a long time - in fact, since 1965. I shared an office with him for 11 years and during those years we shared our office with many Aboriginal people. The honourable member for Wills was the first member of Parliament genuinely to relate to the Aboriginal community. Prior to coming here, he was the  President  of the Victorian Aboriginal Advancement League. He has been an officer of the Federal Council for Aboriginal Affairs and Torres Strait Islanders. While honourable members were away on their recreation over Easter periods, he was stacked up at conferences with Aboriginal people in many parts of Australia. There is no question about it:  His  interest has been in what all of us readily would concede is one of the most controversial fields of sociological endeavour Australia has ever known. In other words, no matter what one says or does in this field, one cannot win with very many people. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who was previously a Minister in this area, certainly knows what I am talking about. In the face of all  this,  the honourable member for Wills has not worried much about public reaction.  His  attitude has been such that the interests of the Aboriginal people themselves have been paramount in all of his endeavours. 
I know that when I had a message the other day that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was going to talk to me about changing portfolios, my whole body quivered at the thought which ran through my mind that he might be inviting me to become the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and I felt relieved when I heard what it was really all about. The problems of Aboriginal affairs are enormous and complex. There have been times when I have wondered what one would do if one had responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. I know the attitude of the honourable member for Wills. He has a burning obsession about the indifference with which Aboriginal people have been treated. He talks about their communities as being representative of the inadequacies produced by indifference. He will tell you about the communities that do not have all or any of the things that we take for granted. There are no roads, footpaths, kerbing and guttering, and no garbage, sanitary or water services. 
Mir LES JOHNSON - Even no telephone and, often, there are no nurses or doctors, a decent school or anything of that kind. The honourable member for Wills believes that it is time to sweep away that indifference. 
The honourable member for Wills is an expensive and an impetuous Minister in the sense that he wants money to get on with the job and he wants to do it at first hand. That can be a virtue; it can be a shortcoming. Frankly, my approach to Aboriginal affairs would be that I would exploit and try to use every department. I would use the Education Department to create an assault against the inadequacies of opportunities existing in that area. I would use the Department of Health. When there is an incidence of child mortality that is 20 times higher than that for comparable European communities, there is a need to bring every possible health resource to bear on the problem - not just in the hospitals but in the treatment and provision of sewerage systems, water supplies and things of that kind. 
I remember in an inquiry about the Alice Springs hospital people talking about the high mortality rate among Aboriginal infant children, and the Committee being given an account of a nurse going out into the area and finding an undernourished Aboriginal mother who would be given advice about taking her child off breast feeding and putting it on to the bottle. But what does a bottle mean in that situation - a situation where there is no refrigerator? They get the bottle and the dog has a go at it and the flies have a go at it and disease is the result of this bastardised situation. A position has been created where Aboriginal people have been cast into a twilight zone, between a nomadic system on the one hand and a European system on the other. This is the enormity of the problem; it is characteristic of it. We need all the resources of the Department of Health and the Education Department in this area. 
Housing is another great problem. I went to the Torres Strait Islands the other week and they told me that they needed 200 houses. It costs $20,000 to provide a house in the Torres Strait Islands so it would cost $4m to provide that number of houses. I understand that the previous Minister contends that 25,000 houses are needed in areas where Aboriginal people live. At $20,000 for each house, 25,000 houses would cost no less than $500m. This is the state of the nation from an Aboriginal housing point of view and this man - the honourable member for Wills - is the man who knows all about the problem. No wonder he is impatient and impulsive and wanting to get on with the job. Despite the competency of the Public Service, he does not believe that it is effective enough. Of course, it is not effective enough, nor is the Government nor the country at large effective enough. All of us can understand the tremendous dilemma that he has been in. 
I believe that the honourable member for Wills characterised his administration by leaving behind him among the Aboriginal people a sense of self-motivation. He has generated in them a feeling of pride that they can go on to do worthwhile things. My own attitude has been that there might have been a tendency over the last few years to develop national organisations before we have properly regionalised. I think the Aboriginal people themselves should not have our system imposed upon them except to the extent that their own attitudes and ours blend together in enabling a regional system to develop so that attitudes can permeate through and from them. That should have happened. 
However, I believe that the Minister is deserving of a tribute for the work that he has done and I know that everyone in this Committee would like to extend good wishes for the future. I told him that it was my intention to say that he believes great tribute is due to the officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for their dedication and he told me that if I said that, I would be saying it with his warm-hearted approval and complete acquiescence. I hope that the honourable member for Wills will go on in his new portfolio to demonstate again the great compassion and a sense of humanity and administrative skill that he has. 
It is true that I am contemplating the appointment of an investigatory group which will undertake a very short term operation to examine the potential of industrialised or systems produced housing. It would be highly presumptuous of me to anticipate the result of such an inquiry, certainly before the appointment of the investigatory group and, for that matter, at any stage during its progress. Nevertheless, it seems to me that if we are to face up to the expanding need for housing production in Australia this is probably the opportune time to do it. Whereas we produce about 163,000 houses a year at the present time, it is estimated that in the next 5 years we will need to build about one million houses. This demand is coming upon us at a time when all the shortcomings of the previous governments are becoming manifest. That is to say, we have a shortage of tradesmen. 
The honourable member for Balaclava may wave his hands in derision but the fact is that the shortage of carpenters, bricklayers, plasterers and the like was certainly not created by the present Government. It takes some years to create such a task force. It is obvious that with this expansion of the demand for housing we will need to look at the question of producing houses in a more effective way. I have mentioned that it is opportune and timely to be looking at this because of the demand. It is certainly opportune to look at it from the standpoint of other factors, especially as the whole housing industry is about to move into metrication with the associated system of preferred dimensions in the metrication concept. It would be highly fortuitous if we were able to identify some desirable systems of factory produced homes - modular homes - and virtually set out with government encouragement to bring building processes into the twentieth century. It would be absurd these days if one set off to have a car made in individual components, which is the way we build houses. It would be absurd to go to someone and say 'Design me a car'; to someone else to build the chassis; to someone else to build the engine; and to someone else to build the body; and put the components together. That is the way we have been building houses. 
I was asked whether, if we move into a systemised and efficient process of building houses, we will sacrifice anything to mediocrity and uniformity. I think every honourable member would hope that that would not be the case, and this Government is anxious to ensure that it will not happen. There is a process which is in operation in other parts of the world and which some of our entrepreneurial people believe can be accomplished here, which involves the utilisation of interchangeable components. It seems to me that our task force will identify this potential and I hope that before this year has concluded we will be able to bring forward some systematised housing processes which State housing authorities and private manufacturers can utilise so that we can get the benefit of good- 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of terminal building and aircraft aprons at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
The proposal involves alterations and additions to the passenger concourse to provide 3 passenger handling positions for wide-bodied aircraft, expansion of the first floor departures hall, air-conditioning of the existing concourse and proposed additions, and provision of additional aircraft standing aprons with associated connecting taxiways and vehicular access. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7. 3m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement on the operations of the homes savings grant scheme for the year ended 30 June 1973. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: 
Construction of stage 6 extension of Stokes Hill power station - Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves: Provision of two 23.5 megawatt turbo-alternator sets, with associated oil-fired boiler plant, auxiliaries, switchgear, unit transformers and 66 kV switchyard, construction of a 24,000 ton capacity fuel oil tank, and supply and installation of two 66 kV underground cables linking the power station and city zone sub-station together with modifications to overhead transmission lines in the Fannie Bay area. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $10. 8m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
 in reply - I. thank honourable members from both sides of the House for the tenor of the debate, since it is apparent that there is a considerable degree of acquiescence about the provisions of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. I am pleased that it has been generally acknowledged, particularly by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who led for the Opposition, that this legislation represents a very significant ad .nee in respect of the efforts of the Government to provide housing for low income earners. None of us here would be placated in the face of the situation that there is such a large number of people waiting such a long time for housing. It is not the exclusive prerogative of the members of the Government to be concerned about these things, and I appreciate the expressions of interest that have been made by 2 honourable gentlemen opposite. Without my overstating the situation, it is a fact that we have entered a new era in housing for the underprivileged in Australia. I regard this legislation as representing a triumphant finale to the months of struggle to get a better deal for those who have been left behind by the post-war materialistic race. The fact of the matter is that there are many people in Australia who, without the assistance of legislation of this kind - without the benefit of the State housing authorities - could never go on to get a home to rent, let alone a house to buy. I do not want to exaggerate what has been achieved. I hope that there will be an even stronger concentration on housing in the future than we are proposing in this Bill. Not only will the Government provide more money for low income earners' housing on better conditions but it will also make a contribution through this legislation for improved environmental conditions in housing estates. 
I do not disparage what the State housing authorities are doing. Some very earnest efforts are being made around the countryside, but that is not to say of course that everything that is being done reaches all the ends that are desired. As the Minister I receive complaints, which could more correctly be directed to the State Ministers, about the inadequacy of the standard of State housing authority homes. I have heard of instances where roads and footpaths are badly constructed. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who is sitting in the House at the moment has drawn my attention to an instance where there has even been a lack of sewerage in a recently provided housing estate and insufficient attention has been given to the need to relate it properly to employment opportunities, pre-school and educational facilities, shopping- 
And community facilities generally, the honourable gentleman interjects to remind me. These matters are properly the concern of this Government. No longer are we in the business of just making funds available without ensuring that they are expended in a desirable way. We have not set about laying out as much detail as the honourable gentleman would have liked in the negotiation of this Agreement. I want to remind the honourable member for Herbert, who has been quite friendly in the debate but who nevertheless in typical Opposition style has put the needle in here and there, that these advances are being made available at 4 per cent interest at a time when the long term bond rate stands at about  7i  per cent. The best that the previous administration could ever do was to provide funds for State housing authority purposes at a concessional rate 1 per cent below the bond rate. That is to say, if we had not moved in quickly to negotiate the new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, today the people who are renting and purchasing homes would be required to- 
This is the story. The honourable gentleman may interrupt but I am saying quite unequivocally that if a new Agreement had not been negotiated very early in the piece by the new Labor Government the interest rate operating at this moment in respect of homes built under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement would not be 4 per cent, as it is, but 7i per cent. That rep resents a very large increase in repayment rates for anyone buying a home. 
As far as rental is concerned,  i  per cent increase in the interest rate represents an average rental increase of about $5 a month. So a lot of money is being saved. I feel quite certain that all honourable gentlemen here, no matter on which side of the House they sit, must be very gratified that the Government was successful in bringing this Agreement to its conclusion. The honourable member for Herbert made mention of the fact - it is a fact - that not every State has ratified the Agreement. I will not throw a lot of light on that matter at the moment except to say that 5 States have signed the Agreement and the remaining State will be signing it this week. 
The other important thing to say is that in respect of the considerable amount of money made available, which is a very great increase over previous years, the States are getting what they asked for. The States determined the amount themselves in the previous year and they decided to spend $ 166.65m. It has been lifted on this occasion to $2 18. 65m - an increase of 26 per cent. A number of matters have been raised during the course of this debate and I would like to mention several of them. But let me first give a summary of the difference in the allocations made in 1972- 73 and 1973-74. First of all, in 1972-73 $1 17.04m was allocated for the purposes of the State housing authorities, and in 1973-74 the amount was increased to $147. 8m. Then there is the home builders' account. This is the account through which funds are made available to the terminating building societies. In 1972-73 $56.1 lm was allocated and in 1973-74 $70.85m was allocated. So we have in total for 1972-73 $173.2m and for 1973-74 $218.65m. 
But I draw attention again to that increased allocation in the home builders' account from $56.1 lm to $70.85m We have heard some fairly insignificant quibbling on the other side of the House about the antipathy which the Labor Government is supposed to have in respect of people purchasing their own homes. However, in negotiating this Agreement the Government facilitated 30 per cent of the funds for sale purposes. Then in addition to that we allocated 30 per cent of the funds to the home builders' account also used to assist home purchase. Naturally enough, a means test applies to this Agreement because it is concessional money. It is money being contributed to by the taxpayers of the country and is being made available to those people who cannot get finance for housing anywhere else. There is an element of assistance. We want to make certain that it goes to the people who need it. 
So in general terms we make it available to people who receive 85 per cent of average earnings, excluding overtime. Then there are special allowances for children and so on. The recipients of the advances that go through the home builders' account are those who receive 95 per cent or less than the average earnings, again with allowances and exclusive of overtime. This is an identifiable group. Of course, these people have to pay just a little more interest. They can buy their homes at  St  per cent, which by today's standards is very good. But the point I am making is that there is no diminution at all in respect of the percentage or proportion of funds which are allocated for home purchase. Nevertheless, I do not have to apologise to the House or to the nation for the fact that I was setting out to caretake the stock of housing commission homes in Australia, because the fact is that many people pass through the housing commission assistance. Primarily they have a need for shelter and we have to make certain that we have adequate shelter available for rental. 
The stock of housing commission homes had run down very considerably. It is staggering to see the figure which one needs to put beside the replacement cost when a housing commission home is sold off. It may have been built years ago on land which was purchased years ago. If one tries to replace it one pays perhaps three or four times more than the actual cost - a phenomenal amount of money. Whilst having regard for the aspiration of Australians to own their own homes it te necessary to have some respect for the fact that a stock of rental homes is necessary for those who pass through the housing authority systems. Not everybody who applies to go into a State housing authority home aspires to stay there forever. However they ore being given the opportunity to save a deposit which may enable them to take up a loan through a building society or some other lending authority. The relatively modest home should then be available for somebody else passing through the system. 
I summarise what is happening with these advances. With its share of the allocation the 
New South Wales Housing Commission proposes to spend approximately $30m on the commencement of 4,000 dwellings in 1973-74. It proposes also to spend $21m out of its allocation on the completion of dwellings now under construction, $3m on improving standards of existing homes and $5m on land purchase and development. In Victoria the advances to the Housing Commission will be used to commence upwards of 3,000 dwellings in its construction program for 1973-74. Advances also will be used for land purchase and development. The authority in Victoria intends to make greater use of its concrete house project at Holmesglen which produces prefabricated components. In Queensland the Housing Commission will be spending its allocation of $ 12.2m on the construction of about 870 dwellings, on land purchase and land development. This compares with the  $10.55m  spent in 1972-73. The South Australian Housing Trust will spend its allocation of SI 5.5m on the erection of dwellings, land purchase and land development. The $10.4m allocated to the State Housing Commission of Western Australia will enable welfare housing activity to proceed at about the same level as in 1972-73. The Housing Department of Tasmania is planning to increase commencements from about 600 to close to 1,000 with its allocation in 1973-74. 
I want to mention a matter raised by the honourable member for Herbert without making a big thing of it. The fact is that there are some difficulties in respect of houses provided under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement (Servicemen) in Queensland. 
The. points I want to make will interest the honourable member. If they are the best in Australia I just do not understand- 
I do not want to be at loggerheads with the honourable member. 1 know he is identifying a group of houses and saying generally that those houses are of a high standard. He regards them as being the best in Australia. Nevertheless, without going into details on this matter, which is the subject of a considerable exchange of correspondence between me and the Queensland Minister for Housing, the fact is that there has been some problem in respect of bringing some of the houses in the Townsville area up to the scales and standards which were prescribed in 1972. There have been complaints concerning some relatively minor matters. Nevertheless the view is taken by the people who determine the scales and standards for servicemen's housing that there should be a range of amenities in every house. I forgot the whole list but it includes such things as screen windows, exhaust fans, ceiling fans and blinds. In respect of some of these houses- 
It is no use the honourable gentleman quibbling because I have the correspondence from the Queensland Minister and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and can make it available to the honourable member. There are deficiencies in some of these houses. There are other problems as well. At Townsville 142 houses have been programmed for Army use and 66 for Air Force use, that is a total of 208 houses for the year 1972-73, but none of these has been started and there is a contention by the Department of Defence that they should have been started. The honourable member is interested in the welfare of the Services. He has been Minister for the Army. I understand his interest and I assure him that what I am saying about this matter is in keeping with the concern that he is expressing. I want to make sure that these houses for servicemen in Queensland, either built in the past or to be built in the future, are brought up to the standard which prevails in every other State. I will be making every possible effort towards that end. I hope there will be fewer complaints about some of these houses in Townsville in the future and I hope I am aided and abetted in my efforts by the honourable member and that I get cooperation from the Queensland Housing Minister because our intentions, as expressed by the Minister for Defence, are genuine. I do not think I need go into this matter any further. 
I pay tribute to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown)  who has raised a number of matters but not in a critical way. He certainly has demonstrated his great interest and wide knowledge of housing matters generally. I appreciate the continued support and advice that he has given me, particularly during the period when I was negotiating the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  who proposed that a percentage of houses should be allocated for country areas. I do not want to knock that as a proposal, but it may come as some surprise to him to know that it was never raised by any of the State Premiers, even of that one State which has a Country Party Premier. I might not have been disinclined to co-operate if such a proposal had been put to me. I am not saying that I would co-operate, but the honourable member for Indi raised this novel suggestion. He obviously does not trust the States. He does not want them to determine where the houses will be built. He wants me, as the Commonwealth Minister, to include a provision ensuring that a certain percentage of houses goes to country areas. I will not sit aside forever and be oblivious to this suggestion. 
Are you in favour of what your colleague has put to me? 
That is what he put to me. I am saying there may be merit in it. I am surprised that the Queensland Government - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
It is true that not all States have yet signed the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. Nevertheless, I am pleased to say that in about 5 minutes time, at midday, the last State, Western Australia, will be signing the Agreement thus giving legal effect to this historic document which fulfils the undertakings of the Australian Labor Party to give a better deal in housing for low income earners. The honourable gentleman has asked me about the effects of the Agreement on rents and housing loan repayments for people so affected. The last Government was able to expend only $163m in 1972-73 on the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I am pleased to say that this Agreement lifts the amount to be expended to $2 18m. If we had not entered into a new agreement, at the present time we would be charging the States an interest rate of 7i per cent. Instead we are charging 4 per cent. The resultant savings for people renting housing commission homes are quite considerable. Every time the rate of interest goes up by  i  per cent for the average house costing $14,000 there is an increase in rent of approximately $5 a month. If this Agreement had not been introduced - that is, if we were still operating under the agreement brought in by the previous Government - the average increase in rent for housing commission tenants would be $8 a week. I am pleased to say that those people have been saved from that imposition. The last aspect of the question concerned the terminating building societies. People who are able to purchase homes through the home builders' account will be paying an interest rate of  5i  per cent, which is again another very appreciable advantage. 
 It is true that such houses are becoming popular in many parts of the world, especially the United States of America and Canada. For my part, I cannot see any reason why they cannot have a place in the sun here in Australia because it seems that many people consider such housing desirable. 
Mobile homes can be of a very high standard and can be relatively inexpensive. As for their innovation in Australia, I understand the position is that at the moment no local government authority anywhere in Australia is competent to approve the location of a mobile home because there are no approved mobile home sites. I believe it is necessary for legislation in every State to be altered before such provisions can be made. 
From the standpoint of the Australian Government, the Department of Housing already has drawn up in co-operation with the States a code for mobile home parks which is of a very high order. I hope that if the States introduce legislation to facilitate the innovation of these mobile homes our code might be of assistance to them. My colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development recently received a request for such a park in the Australian Capital Territory. I understand that at present he is considering the matter, particularly in view of the need for tradesmen in the Australian Capital Territory and the fact that they may prefer this type of accommodation. For my own part I hope that in the near future we will be able to see serious consideration given to the proposal that mobile homes be used in Australia. I personally would give them a green light if we could be certain that they would be of a high standard. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965-1966, I present the ninth annual report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I saw the report prepared by  Mr Tyler  and noted some of the significant points that it contained. One was to the effect that the price of land in the outer western suburbs of Sydney had increased fivefold over the last 5 years. I noticed also that  Mr Tyler  had recommended that governments should be prepared to acquire land when it was made available for development. I believe that these are highly virtuous contentions. He has taken attitudes which are very much in compliance with the views of the Australian Government and I personally feel very fortified as a result of the provisions of that report. Perhaps the most significant aspect of the report is that this gentleman, who was the chief administrative officer of the New South Wales Department of Housing, has trenchantly criticised the New South Wales Government for its failure to exercise any control over the price of land. In that respect I am sure that he shares the hope which members of this Government have, that in the event of this Government being clothed with powers over prices in the near future it will be prepared to fill a vacuum in any part of Australia, in any State, where the State government itself does not exercise the power it already has to regulate the price of land. The points made by  Mr Tyler  are in compliance with those incorporated in the policies of the Australian Labor Party and have a great deal of relationship to matters already being put in train by my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
I am not at variance with much that has been put by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  He is among the hard working members of the Public Works Committee whose experience in 1972, in particular, showed that there was a strain on that Committee and on the members of it well in excess of a reasonable requirement for an extraneous activity of a member of Parliament. There seem to be very good grounds for increasing the amount of money above which expenditure on projects has the effect of their being referred automatically to the Public Works Committee. At this time it is $750,000. The proposal is to raise it to $2m. 
As my colleague the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has pointed out, in 1972 the Committee was actively involved in the thorough investigation, including site inspections, of 35 different proposals, some of which were in isolated parts of Australia and many of which were in the Northern Territory. The travelling involved is extensive, and it is obvious that if the level of referral - namely, $750,000 - remains as it stands there will be no time for the members of the Public Works Committee to engage in their electoral duties or their regular activities as members of Parliament. My colleague the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  the current  Chairman  of the Committee, has discussed the difficulties with me and with other Ministers. We are very anxious that something should be done. 
The Senate has passed an Opposition proposal to amend the Public Works Committee Act - this has been referred to in the preceding speech by my colleague - which would require the Public Works Committee to examine not just the works which are referred by the Government and which are estimated to cost more than $2m but all the works above that cost that are done on behalf of the statutory authorities as well. Obviously, this could introduce a new dimension of complexity and problems. There are some statutory authorities which have complete authority over their own affairs; that is to say, they are responsible for their own budgets. 
As honourable members who have been associated with the Public Works Committee would know, it is within the competence of the Committee to recommend to the government of the day all kinds of alterations to the proposals examined by it. If a proposal for the building of a 200-mile road were referred to the Committee, it could recommend that a 300-mile road be built. In the end the recommendation of the Committee comes back to the Parliament for ratification or otherwise. When we start to get involved with statutory authorities which are responsible for their own budgets we can easily move into an area of problem. The Committee could make recommendations to this Parliament, which could act on those recommendations, that the proposal be altered in one way or another, involving less or more expenditure. The effect of this, of course, could be to usurp the prerogative and area of responsibility exercised by that statutory authority. 
There is much that I do not know about statutory authorities. Apparently there are different kinds, with different degrees of autonomy in their financial matters. The Government has taken the view that, since this obviously is such a complex question and one which requires consultation with the statutory authorities, it would be the height of impertinence to drop something from a great height on authorities of great standing and great competence. If this Parliament decided to take such a course without proper consultation with the authorities, it would be the height of impertinence. The Government does not act in that way, has not acted in that way and will not act in that way in the future. If there is to be an extension of the role of the Public Works Committee in such a way as to involve those statutory authorities and to change their traditional code of behaviour, there should be proper consultation between the Government and the authorities. 
We will look at this question very thoroughly. The Bill is before us now. On behalf of the Government - because I do not think the Leader of the House put it as clearly as he could have - I want to indicate that while this Bill is in its adjournment stage we will be conducting a most thorough investigation of all the pros and cons associated with the Senate proposal; we will be consulting with the statutory authorities and getting top line advice in order to see what would happen if we gave effect to the Senate proposal. 
The practice of the Government is to take advice from those who preside over important committees of this type. That is not to say that the Government influences the members of the committees in the conduct of their work or tries to impress upon them the decisions they should make in respect of their inquiries. But, in respect of policy matters, as to whether it is good to include an examination of statutory authorities, of course the opinion of the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee will be taken into account by this Government. I thought that would have been taken for granted, and I am surprised that the honourable gentleman is even speculating about that. 
In this period of examination, as I said, we will be looking at things very carefully. That could cause the resumption of the debate on this Bill to be deferred a little longer than ordinarily would be the case. I am sure that honourable members on both sides of the House would much prefer to see that happen and to see a decision taken on the basis of good advice and understanding of all the facts rather than in a vacuum. For those reasons, I support my colleague and hope that when the debate is resumed we will all be in a much better position to understand the possible effects of the proposition. 
I have already asked the Attorney-General to examine the question of whether there is a breach of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act involved in the lockouts that have occurred in respect of governmental contracts. Also, I have undertaken an examination of existing contracts to see whether penalties can be imposed on those contractors who have engaged in an illegal lockout. In addition, I am contemplating the inclusion in future contracts of provisions which- will give a low priority to tenderers whose record of lockouts is bad and indicates an incapability to complete governmental works on schedule. The present position is that some $24m worth of Government contracts are being held up in the Sydney area and some $27m worth are threatened. It seems to me that the Master Builders' Association of New South Wales stands in defiance of the recommendations of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Aird. I hope that the Association will co-operate so that these works will no longer be delayed. 
 I want to place on record my concern with the action of the Master Builders Association of Australia in locking out employees who are engaged on government projects. I am encouraged to do so by the remarks made earlier tonight by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  A considerable number of important projects in Sydney are now the subject of illegal lockouts which have some connection with the employers' reaction to the green bans that have been taking place in Sydney. I have had long discussions with departmental officers about this matter. As a result I decided to convey my views by telegram to the Master Builders Association today. I want to place on record the terms of the telegram. It is directed to  Mr J.  B. Martin, Executive Director of the Master Builders Association. The telegram reads: 
Gravely concerned that Australian Government contracts have been disrupted by illegal lockouts which apparently have your approval Stop Attorney-General's views are being sought as to possibility of instituting action for breaches of Conciliation and Arbitration Act Stop My Department now examining terms of contracts with a view to imposing penalties where illegal lockouts delay Government contracts Stop Now examining proposal to include consideration of lockout record when determining tenderers' suitability to carry out government contracts. 
I thought I should make some mention of the significance of the matters referred to in the telegram. It is obvious that, in the event of the Master Builders Association committing a breach of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, some consideration ought to be given to the advisability or otherwise of instituting action against it, because the public interest is involved. The facts are that these great public projects were standing in splendid isolation and well away from the green bans issue. I have not taken any public stance at all on the green bans question - nor, of course, has my Department - and it seems to be quite pointless that the Master Builders Association should choose to import this problem from the green bans area into the area of public works contracts. So I have discussed the matter with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  who is examining the prospects of initiating action under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
There seemed to me to be a need to have someone bear the cost incurred by the delay in these projects. Heaven knows what the cost will be. The projects are many and important. I cannot see why the public should bear the cost. I am studying the terms of the contracts to see whether it is possible to impose penalties on those contractors who have breached their contracts by failing to bring the work to completion by the scheduled time through thenaction. Then it seems to me to be quite appropriate to study the contract system with a view to including in it a process which would take account of the incidence of lockouts applied by prospective contractors or tenderers. What is the point of issuing a contract to a tenderer if he has a provocative nature or if he is going to cause industrial disputes quite unnecessarily by locking people out over matters which have no connection at all with public works projects? These matters are under study. 
My Department has provided me with a long list of important projects. They involve a considerable number of telephone exchanges in the Sydney area. There is a large number of people waiting for telephones; they are not just individuals but also industrial applicants, commercial applicants and the like. The action taken by the Master Builders Association is extremely disruptive. In addition, there are such important projects as the Gore Hill studio extensions, the Bradfield Park national standards laboratory and even defence establishments. Already $24m worth of work is held up, and some $27m worth of work in the Sydney area is under threat. This is a total of more than $50m worth of work. 
What surprises me is that the Master Builders Association has taken this action. For my own part, I have workable relations with the Master Builders Association. We confer from time to time. However, there seems to be a fly in the ointment, and I regret to say that it appears to be in the form of  Mr J.  B. Martin, the executive director, who obviously is just bristling with belligerence in respect of trade unions. Since his appointment as the executive director, the state of the building industry in Sydney has been characterised by perpetual strife and provocative actions. I thought that the telegram I sent to the Master Builders Association was in reasoned and rational terms; but to my surprise I discovered this evening that  Mr Martin,  the executive director, has made a public statement to This Day Tonight' that he intends to deal with me in the future. That is to say, because a Minister has set about his public duty to keep the public construction program of this country operating in an effective way, he is to become the subject of intimidation by a representative of this organisation. I hope that  Mr Martin  is speaking for himself and not for the Master Builders Association. I am inclined to think that that is the case. 1 do not know what is implied in the threat that he is going to deal with me. I must say to him, through you,  Mr Speaker,  that, whilst he appears to have intimidatory tendencies towards trade unions and hopes to succeed with that intimidatory attitude, he has no chance of browbeating me or the Australian Government. Let me make the position clear. This Government is opposed to lockouts and will not take kindly to any contractors who engage in such a practice. The Government will not be intimidated. I do not know whether that implied threat represents any breach of privilege, 'but I hope to meet the executive officers of the Master Builders Association and I will inquire from them whether they accept that  Mr Martin  is speaking for himself. I am convinced that a responsible organisation such as the Master Builders Association would not allow a spokesman to say that kind of thing in respect of any governmental Minister, especially since there has been no provocation for such a statement. 
It is reasonable for me to contend that the Master Builders Association has no right to transplant the green bans industrial trouble into the public works program of this country. I believe that the Government and I are entitled to an apology from  Mr Martin,  and I say to the Master Builders Association, through you,  Mr Speaker,  that it would be very good if it curbed the behaviour of this belligerant spokes man whose attitudes have contributed so much to industrial strife and the suffering and inconvenience of the public in the city of Sydney. I sincerely hope that his attitudes will be more conciliatory in the future and that the Government will be able to maintain the good relations that it has had with the Master Builders Association. So, I place on record my very grave concern at this intimidatory remark and I look forward to a proper explanation of it from  Mr Martin  and the Master Builders Association. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is intended that the 2 departments will be amalgamated. Consideration is being given to the type of authority to which the honourable member has referred. If such an authority were established it could probably utilise the 2 ways of employing people or getting work done; that is to say, it could involve a combination of a contract system and a day labour system. There would be no doubt that if we were setting off with such objectivity we would readily consult the trade union movement and similarly we would consult the Master Builders Association and all interested groups, because the success of such a venture would depend on their co-operation. 
I doubt that the limitations of question time would permit me to do justice to the questions. Nevertheless, it is important to say mat the Australian Government does not have all the prerogative by any means in the administration of building societies. Substantially this is an area which is administered by State laws, and the laws vary throughout the country. 
Yes, the States determine interest rates as has always been the case in the past without any influence from the Australian Government, so far as I am aware. That is not to say, of course, that it is a good thing that that kind of situation should be perpetuated. The building societies have reacted in varying ways to the attitudes expressed by the Treasurer. It is true that many have extended repayment periods. It has been the attitude of the Government, as expressed by the Treasurer, that it is more desirable to extend the repayment periods than to extend repayment rates. 
In respect of the question about distortions, I am afraid that I am unable to respond because the answer to the question would become too long. There are distortions. It is true that the natural ebb and flow of the economic climate in regard to the building industry has been artifcally influenced and affected by government attitudes. But I think honourable members would have to be fair in iden tifying the justification for these decisions that we have taken. Honourable members opposite must accept a great deal of responsibility for the situation which gave rise to the decisions of the Treasurer which are designed to moderate the demand on the building industry. Let me cite to the House some figures as far as building societies are concerned. In 1970 loans amounted to $340m. In 1971 they amounted to $540m and in 1972 the previous Government allowed loans to go up to $949m, which is an increase of almost 300 per cent. That is a reasonable thing to do if the manpower and materials are increased to a like extent but the previous Government did not do that. As a result this Government has had to take regulatory action. I hope that in the short term the adverse effects on home seekers will be minimised and that in the longer term home seekers and home purchasers will 'be greatly advantaged. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1972, I present the ninth annual report on the administration and operation of that Act for the year ended 30 June 1973. An interim statement was presented to the House on 15 October 1973. 
I thank honourable members on both sides of the chamber for the useful suggestions and comments they have made on the estimates for the Department of Housing. Little has been said about the Department of Works, and it is unnecessary for me to make any comments in that regard. It was amazing today and last Thursday to hear the contentions of honourable members opposite on housing problems that have persisted for a long time. Their objective was to lay the blame for these problems at the door of the present Government. I seems to me that any fairminded person would have to concede that most of these problems are the product of bad policies pursued by our predecessors in office. The chickens are coming home to roost. The Australian Government has a sense of responsibility in relation to the matter. We have a sense of anguish about the deficiency of homes in Australia and the increasing cost, and we have under consideration many proposals that are designed to alleviate those problems. 
The clear fact is that housing, both as a parliamentary issue and as an administrative area, was downgraded by the previous Government and its Liberal-Country Party predecessors. These governments had little appreciation of housing and all the matters associated with it. For example, they gave no proper consideration to new growth centres and new cities. They gave lip service to decentralisation, but that was about all they did about it. In contrast this Government, with the cooperation of the States, is bringing about real and significant developments in this field. My colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is taking very real initiatives in regard to the availability of land and the regulation of land prices. 
Comments have been made about the shortage of tradesmen. Although this Government has been in office for less than 12 months, Opposition members have tried to blame it for this shortage. Admittedly there is a shortage of tradesmen, but the fact is that the shortage of both tradesmen and materials reflects the complete vacuum in the previous Government's planning machinery for housing. When I took over the housing portfolio one of my first inquiries was to ascertain whether there was some objective in regard to the housing needs of Australia. I wanted to know how many houses would be needed by 1978, 1980 or 1985. To my surprise, I found that the previous Government had conducted no research on this question. It had failed to enlist the services of academic people who could have effectively undertaken surveys and made inquiries on housing needs. Had it done so, it would have been able to plan for the supply of materials and money. As a result of the former Government's lack of foresight, there was no objectivity in this area of housing when I took over the portfolio. We still lack that objectivity, but we are in the process of getting it. We realise and concede the need for planning and we aim to achieve this objective as quickly as possible. Under the former Government, with no planning and research in housing, this was a seriously neglected area. 
In that kind of setting I can go on to discuss the housing situation. I do not suppose that the people who are queued up for housing authority homes or building society loans in Australia care very much whether the former Liberal-Country Party Government caused the present situation; all they care about is when they can get the money for their home. I could reel off all kinds of figures to demonstrate the irresponsibility that characterised the previous administration in respect of housing, but it would be futile to do so. I shall just take a case in point, and I shall not labour it after giving the relevant figures. In 1970 the banks, assurance companies and permanent building societies together made available $1,1 13m. This was increased in 1971 to $ 1,407m and in 1972 to $2,280m. That is an increase in 2 years from $1,1 13m to $2,280m. There is not one tittle of evidence to show that the former Government gave any thought to backing up that great additional flow of money with additional manpower or material resources. Obviously when any of these aspects are out of perspective or relationship something has to blow and the lid goes off it. Periodically, this has been the history of the country over the last 23 years. We realise that this kind of failure to treat the situation has to be arrested. As I said, we have to get on with the job. 
I will just comment on several of the matters raised by colleagues on both sides of the chamber. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  both talked about the problems arising from the cyclonic conditions in Queensland. I want to say to the honourable member for Maranoa in particular that following the damage caused in north Queensland by cyclone Althea in December 1971 the Acceptable Standards of Construction Committee of the major lenders in Queensland amended the building standards to improve the requirements for the construction of housing throughout the high velocity wind area north of the 24th parallell in Queensland in which cyclonic winds are experienced. 
Of course this does not cover the Brisbane area where the recent cyclone occurred and it is obvious that these examinations will need to be made in respect of the Brisbane area having regard to the high incidence of damage caused there. I suppose that it is fair to say that a great deal of the damage may have occurred in respect of houses which were built without any regard for the acceptable standards that were decided upon by that Construction Committee. The Government realises that this matter is one which needs further attention. The extent to which some thought should be given to alleviating the problem also needs further attention. There has to be more application to the principles enunciated by that Acceptable Standards of Construction Committee. 
I take the opportunity to say that, in respect of the recent storm in Brisbane on 5 November, the Department of Housing was very anxious to give every possible service, particularly to the people whose homes were financed by the Defence Service Homes Division. I understand that the Department set aside 10 telephone lines to receive calls and had a number of competent officers in the field dealing in a very short time with some 250 insurance claims in the Moorooka, Yeronga and MacGregor areas. The Defence Service Homes Division takes a very great pride in the attention that it gives to people who makes claims under the defence service homes insurance scheme. 
I take the opportunity to mention the tremendous advantages which accrue to people who avail themselves of this scheme as against the alternative schemes. Without making a big thing of it, it is important to show what a public instrumentality can do. The premium for a brick home insured for $15,000 under the defence services homes insurance scheme would be $10.86 compared with the premium payable to a private insurance company, for the same amount, of $37.65. The premium for a timber home insured for the same amount under the defence services homes insurance scheme is $10.86 and the comparable coverage from a typical private insurance company would be $82.65. So honourable members who may be interested in these figures can be assured that they are on very safe ground when they advise the people who are able to take defence services home loans to avail themselves of that service because it is to their advantage. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  is a mixed bag in these debates. He is very hard to follow. The first point he made was that he regards my efforts in respect of housing as energetic, and I thank him for that. I regret that the same kind of energy was not in evidence over the previous years. If it had we might not have the problems we are confronted with now. He said that there is a complete scarcity of homes for rental, especially for the low income groups in New South Wales. This is surprising coming from the honourable member for Bennelong. He is usually at very great pains to say the opposite. It was not very long ago that he prefaced a question to me in this place by saying that there were 40,000 dwellings vacant in Sydney. He cannot have it both ways. I want to tell him- 
Of course they are pretty expensive to rent. The honourable member for Bennelong made contentions to the effect that the Australian Government should be virtually underwriting these rents. He is saying that there is no housing shortage in Australia and that there are 40,000 dwellings to rent in Sydney. He says that all the Australian Government has to do is to rent them to people on low incomes. It seems as though he is in the business of advocating that we underwrite the rent of these expensive homes. I am pleased to see that apparently he does not have an ally in the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  He certainly does not have one in me. What the Government wants to do is build up an adequate stock of homes for rental. 
I take the opportunity just to deal with this matter here and now. I was going to deal with it in respect of the contentions of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  but I will not have time to reply to every point that has been made. It is interesting to see that a predecessor of mine as Minister for Housing does not go along with these continuous rebukes that have been directed to me in respect of my desire to see the State housing authorities build up a stock of rental homes. In fact, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who is not only a former Minister for Housing but also a former Treasurer, has expressed very strong views on this question. I should like to read several of them to honourable gentlemen opposite. In a speech on 1 May 1973 he said: 
One of the obvious shortages in the housing field in Australia is housing for rental. We have probably reached the stage where home ownership has been relatively overdone. We now have an increasingly mobile population which needs to shift from place to place and not to undertake long term commitments like buying a house. These people need to rent houses and to be able to move quickly from one place to another and from one job to another. This is a requirement which is most acutely felt amongst the lower income groups. I do not believe that the housing commissions run by the States, which differ very much between themselves, have given proper recognition to the basic problem. That is more rental accommodation, particularly housing, for the lower income group. 
He goes on at quite some length. I will not be able to read it all. He continues: 
I believe that public moneys for housing have been to some degree misapplied. For instance, many houses sold by the State housing commissions have worked out. as nice little capital gains for their purchasers. 
Referring to me, he said: 
I believe that the Minister is right in tilting the housing commission operations much more towards the provision of rental accommodation, which is what Australia badly needs overall. 
He goes on further to say: 
I am pleased to see that with this new policy there will be a greater diversion towards constructing rental accommodation. In the past varying means tests have been applied to housing problems. Houses have been sold or let to a great number of people who could well afford to finance themselves on the private outside systems. Over the years these people have virtually been subsidised by the taxpayer. It is quite timely that this system should be changed. 
That is an extract from a speech made by the honourable member for Wentworth as reported in Hansard of 1 May 1973. So I point out that I do not stand alone in contending that there is a great deal of virtue in having a stock of rental homes, which we have encouraged the States to engage in developing. There are many people who seek to pass through State housing authority systems on their way to home ownership and it is our job to make certain that everybody who wants shelter has it available. 
It is interesting to see what the cost is of replacing rental homes. I will cite the figure in respect of the New South Wales situation. Of 48,617 Housing Commission homes erected, only 22,771 now remain in public ownership. Those houses cost $126m to build. However, if those dwellings were allowed to pass from public ownership, replacement cost would be $500m. These figures are supplied by the New South Wales Housing authority. Honourable members can well imagine how greatly disadvantaged we would be if we went on to sell off more homes. I understand that the Leader of the House wants to terminate this debate. 
If the Leader of the House is not going to extend much sympathy to the honourable member for Mackellar, I cannot say I blame him very much, for the honourable gentleman appears to be down for everything that is going. This seems to be an expression of his frustration. As one who in the past has made arrangements with the honourable member that have been broken, I am not surprised at the attitude of the Leader of the House on this occasion. 
 That is the position as I see it, so I do not have a lot of sympathy with the honourable member for Mackellar. I will not be able to deal with many of the matters that were raised in the debate. However, I would like to say to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that in regard to the problem he raised in connection with the Norlane Hostel at Geelong, I have personally inspected it. As the honourable gentleman pointed out, the hostel consists of igloos which are no longer regarded as desirable accommodation. In addition, a committee has inspected the establishment. As yet I have not received its report. We will be looking at it very carefully, and as soon as further information is available, I will be very happy to provide it for the benefit of the honourable gentleman. 
The honourable members for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  talked about the strike situation in the building and housing area. I think it is fair to comment, that the strikes are not against the Australian Government but happen to be in respect of matters which concern State administrations. It is not the fault of the Australian Government if more conciliatory attitudes are not brought to bear in New South Wales and as far as my own statements on that stroke are concerned, I just say that I have been very much at pains to confine my remarks to issues that concern my own administration, which is the construction of public works on behalf of the Australian Government. 
There are many other matters on which I would like to comment. It is possible that I will be able to evaluate the suggestions and comments made in the course of the debate and, in view of the shortage of time to deal with them today, I may set out to provide the honourable gentleman who made them with written comments where that appears to be appropriate. 
I do not wish to take up the time of the Committee because I am well past the stage of taking the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  seriously. He does not trouble me. He overstates his arguments. He is quite reckless in what he says. He has defamed so many people in this Parliament that if his attitudes were to be used as a yardstick there would be nobody in the Parliament with any credit. Words reel out of him and afterwards he qualifies them and compromises and apologises. One just cannot be disturbed when the currency of reliability becomes so debased. 
It is a fact that I have expressed by way of an answer to a question in this chamber and by way of radio and television interviews my concern with the fact that an area for which I have responsibility has become affected by an extension of the industrial trouble in New South Wales which arose out of the green ban problems. I am not the Minister with responsibility for labour questions. I decline to move into that area. I have no prerogative in regard to green ban matters at all. 
I have just approved a request by the honourable member for Mackellar to incorporate the statement in Hansard. 
Nothing has been hidden. The honourable member has some sense of guilt. We have nothing to hide about this matter. Let me put it in my own quiet and responsible way. I am simply saying to the Committee that there is a green ban dispute in New South Wales. It concerns the Builder's Labourers Federation and the Residents' Action Committee on the one hand and, on the other, substantially the State Government of New South Wales. In other words, those people are saying that irresponsible decisions are being handed down about developmental projects - that is what they are saying - and that no attention is being given to their contentions. That is the situation on one side. 
On the other side, there are Australian Government public works of $24m in value, none of which is the subject of the green ban disputation. The employees have no desire to impost and, to my knowledge, no record of importing the green ban problem into the public construction area. I have said in my interviews that that is the case as I understand it. But the Master Builders' Association has decided to lock out employees from our Commonwealth works projects for some unaccountable reason and has extended the dispute into the area for which I am responsible. I have taken pains to let the Association know my feelings on the question. I feel that it is an unfortunate disruptive tactic for either side to take when, by expanding this green ban problem unnecessarily into the area of public works, it affects so many important proects. 
The other day I made mention here of some of the projects on which work is being disrupted or which have been threatened with disruption. These projects include the Killara Telephone Exchange; the. Gore Hill studio extensions; the Bradfield Park National Standards laboratory; the Mascot Telephone Exchange; Commonwealth State Law Courts, Sydney; North Ryde Animal Genetics Laboratory; Quaker's Hill, 'Nerimba' ship's living quarters; City South Telephone Exchange; Lakemba telephone exchange; Homebush telephone exchange; and the Parramatta telephone exchange. Some other projects are involved. I am told that already works valued at $24m have been affected and that works worth another $27m are under threat. So, works valued at $50m are involved. It seems to me that I should be taking the responsible attitude of discouraging the Master Builder's Association from extending this lockout technique into my area of responsibility. I have told the Association that I have under consideration a proposal which will take into account the lockout record of tenders. If their record is bad, which demonstrates their incapacity to complete public construction programs according to schedule, I cannot for the life of me see why, as a Minister, I should accept their tenders if it will result in these important projects being delayed and the cost of the projects being increased. Who is expected to bear the increased cost which arises because of the fact that some builders and some employers apparently are bristlingwith belligerence and want to lock out people? Is it to be the Australian taxpayer? If some builders or employers want to lock out people who are working on jobs where there is disputation about green bans, that is another matter. That is the concern of the Minister for Labour, but these matters are my concern. 
I unequivocally state that I do not want carrying out the programs for which I have responsibility the kind of builder who will lock out people at the drop of a hat. I do not know whether the honourable member for Mackellar regards that attitude as unreasonable, I do not think it is. In other respects I have been minding my own business, and I intend to go on in connection with these matters will be grateful getting the Australian Government's construction projects completed on schedule and at a minimum cost. I believe that while I maintain that attitude I will be upholding public interest. I think that the Australian public who already have been subjected to too much inconvenience in connection with these matters will be grateful for the responsibility which I am demonstrating. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work, which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of a research laboratory at North Clayton (Monash), Victoria. 
The proposal is for the construction of two 3 -storey laboratory and office blocks and two single-storey blocks as stage 1 of the development. Construction is generally to be of reinforced concrete, with floor slabs and concreteblock load-bearing walls. The buildings will be developed to achieve a similar appearance to the university campus opposite. Stages 2 and 3 will be developed in accordance with similar principles. The estimated cost of stage 1 of the proposed work is $4.5m. 
The Committee concluded that there was a need for the work, that the site was suitable, and that construction of the work should proceed. The Committee also recommended that stages 2 and 3 should proceed along similar lines of construction as stage 1 without further reference to the Committee. Upon the concurrence of the House to this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
 I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of engineering services, Malak and Karama neighbourhoods, Sanderson District - Darwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves the provision of roads and engineering services to 1933 residential and 44 special sites, including the necessary supply of water, sewerage and electrical services to the neighbourhoods. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $ 11.6m. 
The Committee concluded there was a need for the works, that it was appropriate to continue the development of the Sanderson District in accordance with the town plan and the general principles of town planning and engineering standards adopted for previous district development, and that the construction of the work should proceed. The Committee also noted a review of housing designs and standards under way in Darwin and requested that a group of houses be referred for public inquiry by the Committee. Arrangements are in hand for a group of 40 houses developed to the new designs and standards to be referred to the Committee for examination and report early in 1974. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is the firm intention of the Government to maximise the use of the building and construction force. We need something like one million houses in the next 5 years to meet the housing demand of this country. In those circumstances it would be foolhardy to adopt a policy involving the lay-off of employees. I think that there have been occasions on which the previous Administration used the weapon of unemployment for economic reasons. 
It is unquestionably the case. I can give an unequivocal assurance that such a weapon will not be used by this Government. We would rather use the weapon of price control to regulate the economic problems with which we are confronted. For that reason we are seeking a 'yes' vote on 8 December. Let me say very precisely to the honourable gentleman that there is no evidence of any serious trend towards unemployment in the building and contraction industry at present. In fact, the official figures released by the Commonwealth Statistician on 23 November were to the effect that registered unemployment fell by 140 and vacancies increased by 374. 
 I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
in reply - I think the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  would be the first to concede that a committee such as the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works does not exercise the preprogative of determining such matters as defence and foreign policies. The Public Works Committee in particular has always been quite constrained in seeking to assume such a role. It does not take the view that it has the right to challenge Government policy on such matters. It looks at the ramifications of the works project itself. I explained to the House that the change in the timetabling of this program related to the fact that a review of the naval destroyer replacement program is under way. That is not to say that the Goverment underrates the significance of defence in any way. In fact, the Australian Labor Party has always had as a very prominent part of its policy the firm and precise commitment to provide adequate defence for Australia. But it is apparent that we do not have to do that in precisely the same way as our predecessors did it. 
The destroyer program is being reviewed and obviously that permits the existing facilities to be used for a longer period and to bring other facilities into operation at a little later time. Another matter that hardly needs mentioning again is the decision to base the oceanographic ship on Williamstown. This will take some little time to eventuate. Again the time factor which we have proposed is very much in compliance with the Government's objectivity in that connection. I rose mainly to make it quite clear that the Government is mindful of its defence obligation and is setting about it in what we regard as a far more contemporary, desirable and efficient way than the way in which our predecessors in office sought to do it. 
We have a very real appreciation of the role of the Public Works Committee and the need to avoid pre-empting its attitude. Those principles will be firmly upheld in the future, as we have endeavoured to ensure that they should be on this occasion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
There is no indication of any sharp deterioration in housing construction in Australia. I think the last information given by the Commonwealth Statistician to throw light on this situation is in respect of building approvals for the month of October. The stark figure gives a denial of any contention to the effect that there is any deterioration, in that the increase in approvals for October was 8 per cent. It is interesting to note that approvals in the government sector increased by 57 per cent over those for the month of September. This is more gratifying when it is realised that those approvals were in respect of houses for low income people. The total value of building work approved in October was the highest on record - $462m, of which government approvals accounted for SI 04m, also a record. There is an understandable tendency for people engaged in the construction industry to cry wolf, sometimes prematurely. There is no question that the Government is applying the policy announced by the Treasurer involving moderate abatement, and I imagine that there will be a little tightening up in the near future and that this will be in evidence. All that can be done is to maximise the work force. It is the declared intention of this Government to keep our building construction force working to the maximum possible limit. After that, of course, we intend to bring more stability to the building industry by way of legislation which the Treasurer proposes to introduce in the next session. 
It is a fact that the Government appealed to lending authorities to shield home borrowers from the effect of the recent recommendations of the Reserve Bank. It was proposed that the increases in interest rates be contained to one per cent, and I am very pleased to acknowledge the considerable degree of co-operation that has been extended by many lending authorities in this regard. The Executive Director of the Association of Permanent Building Societies of New South Wales has informed me that only one permanent building society in New South Wales increased its interest rate by more than one per cent. It is interesting to note that the building societies in that State have been successful in breaking the $100m barrier, to which the honourable gentleman referred. The deposit rate for the month of October broke the record and reached $102m - the first time ever to exceed $100m. It seems to me that if this can be achieved in New South Wales it should be achievable in other parts of the country as well. 
In New South Wales, the flow-out for the month of October was $76m and the net gain was $27m. The fact is that there are varying interest structures applying around Australia. Some building societies have tailored their interest rates to suit short-term as against long-term loans and, in all, there are some unsatisfactory symptoms emerging. I believe that this shows the need for a national policy. For far too long has the Australian Government been deprived of legislation enabling it to be effective in regard to the activities of lending institutions, including building societies, and there is little doubt that stability will become the order of the day, benefitting lenders and borrowers and everybody associated with the building industry, if we can introduce legislation which will enable us to regulate the volume and cost of money to be made available for home building purposes. 
The Department of Housing and Construction has the largest construction force in Australia. That construction force was also the largest in Australia when it was part of the then Department of Works. There has always been a sense of responsibility demonstrated by these departments in regard to the employment of apprentices and I understand that more than 480 apprentices are employed by the Department of Housing and Construction at present. The apprenticeship intake for 1974 will be about 250 new apprentices. This will represent an increase of more than 100 over the intake figure for 1973. The Department feels very strongly about the responsibility it has to set an example. It is important that the example which I have mentioned in terms of the intake figures for next year should be taken notice of and regarded by industry as an example which might be emulated. Australia could well be heading for a crisis if we do not take significant steps to expand our construction force. The Minister for Labour has taken significant steps to provide new incentives to employers to encourage them to increase their intake of apprentices. I certainly will not go into the details today, but I understand the incentives amount to as much as $16 a week in some cases. Details of these incentives are available from the Minister for Labour and his Department. As the Minister for Housing and Construction I feel very strongly about the need to make 1974 a very significant year for the building up of our tradesman force in Australia. I hope that the example set by my Department will be faithfully followed by the leaders of the construction industry. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament. 
Construction of stage 6 extensions of the Stokes Hill Power Station - Darwin, 'Northern Territory. 
The proposal involves the provision of two 23. 5 meggawatt turbo-alternator sets with associated oil fired boiler plant, auxiliaries, switchgear, unit transformer, and 66 kV switchyard: construction of a concrete chimney; construction of a 24,000-ton capacity fuel oil tank; supply and installation of two 66 kV underground cables linking the power station and city zone substation together with modifications to overhead transmission lines in the Frances Bay area. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $10. 8m. 
The Committee concluded that it was reasonable to plan for the future on the basis of a growth rate of 17 per cent per annum, that there was a need for additional generating plant to be operating by 1977, that the present site was suitable for the final additions to the Stokes Hill Power Station, and that the work proceed to construction in this instance. The Committee also recommended that the proposed timetable for the work be adhered to. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
in reply - I thank the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  for his remarks and I am pleased that the very serious position in regard to the power shortage at Darwin appears to be at least temporarily relieved. Very strong efforts were made by my Department to keep up the power supply to Darwin. As the honourable gentleman knows, every bit of equipment available in the north was pressed into service, and in addition strong efforts were made to find plants that could be taken from other parts of the world. Even the possibility of using a power ship from New Zealand was investigated but, regrettably, it was not available. Then the 'Department looked in Tasmania at a generator which weighed about 126 tons, I think. That would have to be broken up into small modules of, I think, about 15 tons each, to enable it to be transported by Hercules aircraft. If it was broken up into these components a very big program would have been involved to reassemble it. Obviously that was not the way to resolve the problem. Finally we brought out experts from Sweden who are now keeping the equipment going. I hope that the new equipment, which is the subject of this proposal today, will be the long term answer. 
The only other matter I want to mention is that of course, due regard will be given and has been given to what the honourable gentleman put about the possible utilisation of natural gas for the generation of power in the Northern Territory. Consideration will be given to this for several reasons, foremost among which is the developing world shortage of fuel. In addition, there is the secondary but still very important factor that natural gas is available in the north off the North-West Shelf and in the vicinity of Alice Springs at the Palm Valley fields. The power generation equipment proposed is of a convertible nature, and if it proves to be undesirable to use oil for power generation purposes it will be quite inexpensive to switch over to the use of gas. I hope that the honourable member will find some satisfaction in that assurance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, it is expedient to cany out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969, I present the annual statement on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1973. An interim statement was presented to the House of Representatives on 27 September 1973. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) (3) Young people recruited to junior positions in the Public Service from outside Canberra, Queanbeyan and their environs, who reside in Commonwealth Hostels in Canberra, are eligible to receive assistance towards meeting the cost of their accommodation through the Canberra Boarding Allowance. The amount of the allowance payable, which is determined by the Public Service Board, depends on the salary of the applicant and is reviewed from time to time. An increase in the scale of allowances was announced in October with effect from 23 September 1973, the date on which hostel tariffs were increased. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works  Committe  Act 1969-1973. it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Development of international terminal building and aircraft aprons at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
The proposal involves alterations and additions within the passenger concourse to provide additional aircraft positions, provision of additional amenities for transit and departing passengers, air-conditioning of the existing concourse and additions, and provision of additional aircraft standing aprons with associated connecting taxiways and vehicular access. The building works, light and power, and fire protection systems will all be extended to match existing facilities. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Public Works Committee was $7.3m. The Committee concluded there was a need for the alterations and extensions to the terminal building and the additional aircraft aprons, and that the work should proceed to construction in this instance. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The answer to the right  hoourable  member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973 my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on IS November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Question Nos 964 and 10S7 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  &lt;1) The desirability of residential development on the land at Belmont is still under examination. &lt;2) An announcement will be made when a decision has been reached. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although my Department is currently collecting data on sales of houses from State Valuation Authorities this is not yet available for all Capital Cities nor for a sufficient length of time to answer the question. The best information available at present is that published in 'Building Statistics', by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. The series on average commencement value of private contract-built houses has only recently been introduced and is backdated to the year ended June 1971. 
It is true that a fortnight ago I opened the first phase of the Defence Service project at North Rocks which is a northern part of Sydney. The houses made available to the personnel cost between $23,000 and $27,000 and were said to be valued at between $40,000 and $47,000. It is a clear indication of the kind of thing that governments can do when economies of scale are pursued and put together with a proper approach to land acquisition. There is considerable scope for the development of this scheme. At the present time my Department holds some 44 estates which I think can accommodate approximately 9,000 houses. In all, about $236m would be involved in developing these estates. 
The honourable gentleman asks whether such a scheme could be extended. In that regard I should mention that there is some spread-eagled constitutionality which could be brought together since the Commonwealth has the constitutional prerogative in regard to housing in the Territories and for such categories of people as Aborigines, students, public servants and a wider range of defence personnel than at present are covered by the Defence Service Homes Act and for certain recipients of social security benefits. There is no question that the Commonwealth could, in its own right, establish a very substantial presence in housing and bring about a fulfilment of the kind of development in the North Rocks area to which the honourable gentleman referred. 
I can understand the honourable gentleman's sensitivity on this matter. He is among the Ministers who prevailed in the previous Government which created the situation which, in turn, has given rise to the problems referred to in the question. The fact of the matter is that housing approvals in 1973 were of a very high order. It is interesting to note that even last January, although the approvals were 8 per cent below the December figures, when this is seasonally adjusted the approvals had actually increased by 2 per cent. So a considerable degree of housing construction is taking place in Australia. The honourable gentleman would be well aware of the fact that in the building industry we have a very serious liquidity demand problem which has been brought about by the recklessness of the previous Government. (Opposition members interjecting). 
There appears to be some confusion about this matter.  Mr McGinty  is an even newer Minister than I am, and this could possibly explain some of the things that he has said. 
The New South Wales Government is not involved in making money available to the people referred to other than money made available by the Australian Government. It is true that people are assisted through the terminating building societies which receive most of their funds under the provisions of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. It might interest honourable gentlemen to know, especially the Deputy Leader of the Opposition who was interjecting, that the total allocation of funds under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement this year was $2 18m, an increase of 26 per cent. So I am not sure that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition can claim too much credit for the former Government's efforts in this regard. 
The amount made available through the Home Builders Account to terminating building societies was $71m compared with $56m which was made available by the previous Federal Liberal-Country Party Government. The figure for New South Wales was very substantial indeed. That State received $2Sm as against $17m. So the facts are that it is not just $4.1m which is being made available for these purposes to the New South Wales Government. It is a total of $25.8m. This is made available at 4i per cent and goes through to the borrower at less than 6 per cent - that identifiable category of people who are unable to obtain loans from the traditional building sources - at less than 6 per cent. 
I have read of the trade union attitude to the insurance companies which have not covered insurers against flood damage in Queensland. As I understand it, this matter will be the subject of a meeting between the Treasurer and insurance company representatives in the near future. I do not want to pre-empt any attitude which the Australian Government may have. Nevertheless, I am sure that every honourable member will understand the position of people in Queensland who in the main probably felt that they were covered and who are now languishing in disillusionment. 
I know, and it is a commonly held belief, held not only in Queensland but throughout Australia. 
The honourable member in his question referred to the Defence Service homes insurance scheme. This scheme is the biggest in Australia from the standpoint of housing insurance, covering some 200,000 policy holders. A total of 900 claims were made on the Defence Service homes insurance scheme arising out of the floods in Brisbane, all of which were met at a total cost of approximately $2m. It must intrigue every honourable member and the people of Australia at large to learn that the Government insurance scheme can fulfil its obligations in this way even though its premium rate ranges from one-eighth to onequarter of the premium rates charged by insurance companies. It seems to me that some consideration could be given to expanding this principle to insurees other than those who are covered by the Defence Service Homes Act. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Re-development of the Tennant Creek Hospital. 
The proposal involves the provision of new medical and paramedical facilities, new administration area, new ward block, new kitchen, accommodation units and alterations to certain existing facilities to provide a modern, efficient hospital. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4. 5m. T table a plan of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of area school at Yirrkala, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is to construct a school to cater for an initial enrolment of 250 primary students and 60 secondary students with a further 50 children attending the pre-school. Construction will be of steel portable framing with concrete masonry wall panels, corrugated galvanised iron roofing and aluminium frame windows and doors. The building will be air conditioned. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4. 3m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have been virtually inundated with approaches from people who will be affected by this development. However, I do not want to give the House the impression that I altogether disparage the need of the Housing Commission of New South Wales to acquire land for its purposes. It is noteworthy that from time to time the Australian Government finds occasion to do the same kind of thing. What is significant, I believe, is the fact that there are the special features mentioned by the honourable member for Chifley. A matter frequently drawn to my attention in recent days is the proposed acquisition of the animal sanctuary, which I am told is used by local schools over a large region and is generally used for education purposes. It is very serious that this utility should be sacrificed. Then of course there are the other matters mentioned - the club sites and the land held by the Blacktown Council, I think for geriatric purposes. I say to the honourable gentleman quite clearly and unambiguously that the Australian Government has no prerogative over this matter in terms of the current Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. I am a little concerned to note that it appears that deliberate attempts have been made to attribute this acquisition to the Australian Government. 
The other thing I would like to say is that last year was characterised by a great deal of disputation, and in fact confrontation, in respect of the development of certain areas in a number of capital cities, Sydney in particular. There has been a proposal to the effect that there should be established a new kind of authority referred to as the DDDT - the development disputes determination tribunal. It is intended by this scheme that tribunals should be established every time a major redevelopment proposal is mooted so that the developer, the affected residents, and maybe people interested in historical and environmental matters can come together and have their point of view put before an appropriate tribunal which in tura could make recommendations to the acquisition authority. This appears to me to have a lot of merit. In view of the hardship in the Doonside area I would commend such a proposition to the Government of New South Wales. I emphasise that the acquisition of the land in question is not the prerogative of the Australian Government; rather it is the direct responsibility of the Liberal Government which prevails in New South Wales. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  concluded by saying that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  had failed to establish that high interest rates are not of ill consequence. Of course, it is the case that they are of ill consequence. I think that even the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  would not be naive enough to think that the situation is regarded otherwise. The matter proposed for discussion by the Opposition can be regarded only as pious and self-righteous. It is probably the kind of matter which any Opposition in a less responsible mood in any part of the world could raise in the present situation in the face of world-wide inflationary trends. Is the honourable gentleman able to point to any country where interest rates are coming down? Does he not know the circumstances that apply in comparable countries, such as in the United Kingdom, and in other parts where the interest rates are much higher than prevail in Australia at present? 
Of course the Opposition's complete disinterest in the idea of making any propositions at all as to how any government can overcome the demand liquidity situation with which this country is confronted has been of interest. It would be the height of absurdity for anybody to suggest that the economic situation that prevails in Australia has descended overnight or that' it is even the creation of the present Government. I gained the impression, I think yesterday at question time, that those who sit opposite and who now point to the heavy demand on the building industry, were unaware of the fact that they were creating the situation when they were creating it. Of course they sit opposite today able to talk in this critical way, but if anyone takes the trouble to look at any of the documents and any of the economic trends from any official papers it can be clearly established that those persons opposite are the guilty men. If there is any quibble with that, let me just give some statistical information to show how those who sat on the Government side of the chamber for 23 years, in a desperate preelection situation, gave rise to a state of affairs with which we are now confronted. Now the Labor Government, after 23 years, faced with the products of that irresponsibility, is trying to bring order out of chaos which was irresponsibly created by those who dare today to criticise this Government which is taking positive forms of action to arrest what we willingly acknowledge to be a highly undesirable situation. 
What did the previous administration allow to happen from the standpoint of creating this liquidity demand? In respect of savings banks, in the year 1970-71 the value of housing loans was $567m, in the following year it was $671m and in 1972-73 it was $l,104m. That is to say, in a 3-year period those who sit opposite allowed savings bank lending to run from $567m to $1,1 04m. Trading bank housing loans in the same period went from $234m to $75 lm. The permanent building societies were running along in a fair state of equilibrium up to 1970-71 when $420m was made available for housing. Two years later these people who have the temerity today to point the finger of scorn allowed lending by the permanent building societies to increase from $420m to $1,1 39m. Of course, there were other aggravating factors as well. The life assurance companies lending for housing went from $56m to $63m and the finance companies must have just about quadrupled their loans. I have not the precise figure but I know that they went to $ 1,070m without one skerrick of concern being shown by those opposite. This transference of the lending capacity into the hands of the high interest finance companies was allowed by the previous Government. What did it do? In total, in a 3-year period, it allowed a volume of money to descend onto the housing industry probably to the extent where it quadrupled. There would be nothing wrong with that in many respects. People want money for housing. But what is the point in pouring it into an industry unless in a comparable way the logistics, manpower and material supplies are increased. 
If one takes a look at any of the Treasury documents relating to this matter one will establish that as a result of the action taken by our predecessors the time taken to build houses has lengthened and the cost of building them has gone up, and if these trends remain unattended and unarrested the consequences for thousands of home seeking Aus tralians will be even more serious and more deleterious in the future. It is to the credit of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that he proposed that firm action should be taken in the latter part of last year. The action that was taken involved the bond rate being able to find its own level. It is true that it moved up to a higher extent than had prevailed earlier. The Treasurer was hoping to take the demand off the money market. Already it is a fact that gratifying results have accrued. 
What would our political antagonists do? In the face of this situation where people arc finding that builders are no longer able to take their orders and when the unfortunate builder who does take an order finds that he is no longer able to recruit the services of bricklayers and carpenters to the extent necessary to fulfil the contracts, would they allow these pressures to cause the price of housing to go up endlessly without any action? Have they any propositions at all to make or are they going to wallow in this irresponsible attitude that has characterised their stance today? The present Government is very anxious to face the facts of life and to bring the 3 elements of manpower, material and money into sensible relationship, one with the other. Towards that end for the first time in the history of Australia we have introduced a process which we hope will result in effective planning and the maintaining of a sensible relationship and balance between those 3 elements to which I have referred - manpower, material and money. We have established an indicative planning process. The departments concerned have come together for the first time and we hope to go on to transfer the consideration of Australia's housing needs from a centralised position into the regions, and then marry these factors with the availability of the type of material that is needed in each region and the type of tradesmen necessary to utilise those materials. 
In addition to that, of course, we realise that in the face of this tradesmen shortage other steps have to be taken. The solution of a tradesmen shortage is not the easiest thing to find. The availability of tradesmen under the immigration program is a diminishing factor. Tradesmen are in international demand. We hope to be able to take longer term courses of action such as adult training and pre-apprenticeship training and improvements of this kind to bring our tradesmen force up to date. We are also looking at the urgent need to find better ways of building houses which will not involve the utilisation of such a large building force. 
So many other matters are already the subject of positive initiatives by this Government and others are receiving the attention of the Government and could be the subject of announcements in the near future. We know that people have been affected by the high interest rates. We want to restore lower interest rates as quickly as we can. We are taking steps towards that end. In the meantime, of course, it is our intention to alleviate the problems that some home seekers are experiencing with the higher interest rates that prevail by introducing a system of tax deductibility on mortgage repayments. But, more importantly, initiatives which will be taken with regard to financial corporations and which will be the subject of debate later in this session will have desirable effects. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The Minister's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
 I have been intrigued listening to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  raise several matters, particularly the last one when he talked about the alleged deterioration of Australia's image abroad. I must say that the feelings that he expressed are contrary to the experience that I and other members of the parliamentary delegation to India, Iran and Pakistan encountered when we met the Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers of each of those countries and lots of other people. In every case we were able to establish without any equivocation that those countries felt that Australia had overcome many barriers in respect of its formerly unacceptable foreign policies and, because of these considerations, at least some of those countries which previously were relatively cool towards Australia were now more willing to embrace the country, to develop close associations and to make trade overtures which could bring very great benefit to the people of this country. 
There are honourable members sitting in the House at this moment who will acquiesce with what I say along these lines. They have a recollection of asking the Foreign Ministers whether there is any point of foreign policy with which their countries are at variance with Australia. In each instance we were given the unequivocal assurance that as a result of the leadership of the much disparaged Prime Minister referred to by the honourable member for Angas there are now no barriers of significance between. the countries concerned. For example, the Prime Minister of Iran took the attitude that this country is now regarded as so stable that he was prepared to make long term contracts with Australia in regard to protein and dairy products. Does that not strike a responsive note on the part of the honourable members opposite who are trying to interject? There is the prospect of uplifting the relatively depressed dairy industry in this country. They were prepared to make longterm arrangements with Australia for the provision of cereals, minerals, Iamb and beef. 
Yes, and pay cash. Indeed, there is an honest comment from a colleague who accompanied me on the delegation - a member of the Australian Country Party. So, I am relating the facts of the situation which will be officially documented in the report of the parliamentary delegation. So what nonsense is it to mouth these cliches which have no relationship to the facts of the situation? Do not talk to  Mrs Gandhi  about the degenerating foreign policy stance of Australia. She obviously holds us in the highest esteem. Do not talk to the Prime Minister of Pakistan,  Mr Bhutto,  because likewise he regards us as being in the vanguard of countries which are embracing decent ideals. Obviously those countries are responding to the overtures that we have been making to come closer together. Other members who visited Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Burma and Nepal on a concurrent delegation have come back with precisely the same kind of reports. This is the old Goebbels technique - get on to a lie, batten on to it and pursue it in the hope that the people might be gullible enough to believe it. 
Of course the country has been transformed in terms of its standing overseas. There is no question but that the rural producers, the industrialists and everybody else in Australia is assured of a better way of life because of the decent, honest and moral stand that we are taking. Yet we hear these platitudes one after the other. The honourable gentleman from Angas referred in a pedantic way to the Albury-Wodonga situation. It was a case of upstream versus downstream. I cannot get terribly involved in such an argument, but how uplifting it is for Australians to know that at last we have a government which has a plan, contrary to the policy pursued for 23 years involving the expansion of bulging cities such as Melbourne and Sydney with the consequent deprivation of decent transport facilities and the like. We had never heard of a new city in the lifetime of the previous Government, except for the Australian Capital Territory which was started way back in 1927. I suppose one could mention the city of Elizabeth which was not assisted very much by the Federal Government which prevailed over the 23 years preceding this Government. 
Now we have a great string of cities not only identified by the Australian Government but co-operatively identified and upheld in objectivity by State Governments as well. This is going to bring about a tremendous transformation of the way of life that many people will experience in this country. If the honourable gentleman was saying something about the need for co-operative attitudes between citizens in developing areas and governments and authorities involved with those developments, let me say that I uphold that part of what he said. We are firm believers in co-operation and I am delighted to note that my colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has sensibly set about the restoration of the western parts of the cities of Melbourne and Sydney as priority issues. In the process of doing those things, not only he but also the States working with him have formulated processes which enable the people of those areas to have an effective say in the improvements which are to take place there. 
I am concerned to note the attitude of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  It is almost beyond belief that any member could stand here with his tongue in his cheek contending that the Australian Government has been remiss in respect of the flood situation in Queensland. I admit that I do not know everything there is to know about the flood situation because I was overseas when the floods occurred. However, the first thing I did when I returned to Australia was to go to Brisbane. I went there immediately following my return from India. What I found out in Brisbane was that there had been a number of Ministers precede me. First of all, I was tremendously overwhelmed with the appreciation expressed of the efforts of my colleague, the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  who apparently worked tirelessly night and day.  Senator Milliner  was another who was praised. My visit was preceded by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Minister for 
Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  had been in Brisbane and, of course, has been there subsequently and to very good effect. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development had made a visit to the area. 
Yes. I am not trying to take anything from the Opposition. I am just trying to show how ridiculous it is for the honourable member for Petrie to seek to make cheap political capital out of this situation when all these Ministers went there. The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  visited Brisbane. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  and the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  also visited the area. Doubtless, other Ministers also made visits to the area affected by the floods. Those were the Ministers whose visits went close to coinciding with mine. 
The honourable member for Petrie was disparaging the efforts of the Australian Government in the flood situation in Queensland. Let me remind the honourable member of my own modest involvement because I did not go to Queensland to make any Press statements and, in fact, I did not. What I did was to meet the Lord Mayor and the Minister for Housing to make offers and overtures to him in relation to assistance for housing in that area. I offered the Minister 200 emergency accommodation places in the Commission hostel called Wacol. We offered him the resources of the Federal Department of Housing and Construction to co-ordinate the flow of materials to assist with the restoration of houses in that area. Regrettably, we have not had much response. 
We went to check the situation in respect of the defence Services homes insurance scheme. I have told the House that in that regard we have an impeccable record with about $2m worth of claims met by the defence Services homes insurance scheme despite the sorry record of some of the private insurance companies. Then, of course, there is the question of the unbridled support of the defence Services. There is no need for me to talk about that. There is the fact that 5600,000 was made available to public relief funds and that there was an immediate declaration made about donations being tax deductible if they were over $2. Then, of course, there was the willing response of the Federal Government in regard to the providing of immediate relief for families amounting to $3,000 a family and $15,000 a household in respect of major repairs. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  who is fairly new among us may not be very much aware of the niggardly attitude that characterised the previous administration in regard to disaster relief. Relief was to the effect of a dollar for dollar subsidy. I might add that the Queensland Government is likely to spend $2m, so that Government could attract $2m under the criteria which the honourable member for Parramatta seems willing to uphold. Do honourable members opposite expect us to stand for this nonsense when this Government has seen the floods as a genuine humane and priority issue and has given an almost open-ended commitment to the relief of the situation in Queensland? Do honourable members know that already we have indicated our preparedness to back the State in the restoration of State assets? Do honourable members opposite know that we have already spent $9m and that probably we will go on to spend 4 or 5 times that amount and that in respect of the second episode there was no quibbling and Addling around as to how much it would cost? The Prime Minister of this country spoke affirmatively on behalf of the Parliament of the nation and the people of the nation when he said: These human demands have to be met'. So, we are going along with that kind of enthusiasm and neither I nor any Government supporter on this side of the House is prepared to listen to the humbuggery and the nonsense that has been meted out by the honourable member for Petrie. (Quorum formed.) 
I did not intend to talk about those things but it seemed to me that the record needed to be put straight. I am very concerned also with the misrepresentation by the Leader of the Opposition in respect of the matters associated with my own responsibility. What the Leader of the Opposition has been saying in regard to the housing situation does not fairly represent the facts. He has been talking about approvals and commencements. He has been contending that they are down this year. What he has not said, of course, is that more houses were under construction in 1973 than in 1972, the last year of Liberal-Country Party government. He has been criticising me in respect of some of the statements attributed to me, particularly in last Sunday's 'SunHerald'. I noticed that he made a statement during the course this afternoon when he referred to my - 
. watching with acute anxiety as enormous sums of finance stretched the building industry to a point where human and material resources could not cope, and prices soared astronomically. 
I think that I should take the opportunity to mention that the Leader of the Opposition was terribly disadvantaged in regard to the statement that I made because the 'SunHerald' failed to quote the statement in full. The remarks to which I have just referred were preceded by the comment: 
Because the Liberal-Country Party Government laid the foundations of housing inflation 3 years ago . . . 
Then I went on to say what I quoted previously. Perhaps he might like to take advantage of this misrepresentation and seek to correct the matter with the editor of the Sun-Herald'. 
I have heard all this quibbling about housing and about the inflationary situation, but I wonder just how many of the initiatives taken in respect of inflation by the present Government might have been taken if there had been no change of government. It is undoubtedly the case that the housing situation is aggravated by inflation. I ask the honourable gentlemen opposite whether they would have taken the same step in regard to revaluation, a step designed to deal with this inflationary situation. Would they have taken the very dramatic action involving across the board tariff cuts, an action which obviously has had an extremely valuable remedial or soothing effect on inflation? Would they have set out to regulate overseas investment? The honourable member for Parramatta is shaking his head. Is he prepared to say that this is the kind of thing that the Liberal-Country Party coalition would have done? 
What I should like to know from the honourable gentleman and from anybody else on the other side of the House is precisely what they might have been prepared to do in the face of inflation. What I am putting is that this Government has taken initiatives without which the inflationary situation would have been as bad in Australia as it is in other parts of the world. Thank heavens it is not. The fact of the matter is that in addition to the measures that I have mentioned the present Government has also successfully and effectively established the Prices Justification Tribunal which everybody acknowledges and concedes has some regulatory and slowing down effect in the natural trend to inflation. The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices, which is made up of people from both sides of the Parliament, has also been established. Is the Opposition prepared to disparage that committee? Opposition members on this committee have told me privately that this committee is an extremely valuable innovation and that it is useful in the fight against inflation. 
Nevertheless, I have no time to speak about the pedantic aspects; I am speaking generally. Each one of these matters to which I have referred represents an initiative which would not have been taken if there had been no change of government. Would the Opposition have done the same kind of thing in regulating overseas investment as the present Government has done? The previous Government had always stood for unbridled overseas investment, and that is inflationary. The situation would have been extremely aggravated if there had been no change of government. It was this Government that sought the backing of the people to gain some additional powers. I doubt whether I can entice from honourable members opposite even by way of interjection one solitary idea which would have contributed to the fight against inflation. I say to the Parliament and the people of Australia that if there had not been a change of government the situation, already bad enough, would have been much worse. Housing interest rates would have been higher than ever before. Obviously they are the product of the misdemeanours of the previous administration and the flooding of the money market by the present Leader of the Opposition, the previous Treasurer, who contributed to all these things. But make no mistake, this Government will press on with its attempts to restore order out of the chaos which the previous Government created. The many initiatives already taken and those about to be taken I hope will bring about useful remedial effects. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
I do not concede the credence which the honourable gentleman attaches to the question. The views of my own Department do not differ from the views that I have expresed. I have heard nothing from the Treasury or the Treasurer to indicate other than that it is now, as it always has been, the declared intention of the Australian Labor Party, in opposition or in government, to bring the cost of housing down to the lowest posible level. One thing is very apparent: The Government has an enormous task on hand to restore the equilibrium that was . so grotesquely distorted by its predecessor's inflation of the money market. Many initiatives are being taken towards this end, but in the face of the world inflationary trends and the inflationary trends that prevail in Australia, it is no mean task. Nevertheless the Government will unrelentingly pursue its objective of turning out money for housing at the lowest possible interest rate. 

 - Mr Speaker, does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition want to answer the question as well as ask it? 
The one million Australian families who are likely to benefit from the tax deductibility of mortgage interest rates will certainly not acquiesce in the honourable member's contention that the proposal is socially regressive. My own experience is that this scheme is extremely well received and it is certainly a great improvement on the homes savings grant scheme which it will replace. I might remind the honourable gentleman and the House that whereas in the past some $21m a year has been spent on the homes savings grant scheme, something like $1 20m per annum will be spent on assisting people who are in the process of buying their own homes under the tax deductibility scheme. Whereas 40,000 grants were made in 1972-73 under the homes savings grant scheme, one million families will be assisted under the scheme I mentioned. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance wilh the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investiga tion and report: Construction of proposed Post Office administrative building, Perth, Western Australia. 
The proposal involves the construction of an 8-storey building to accommodate Post Office administrative personnel at present in leased premises. The building will be constructed of reinforced concrete with generally painted plaster internal walls. The building will be air-conditioned. The preliminary cost of the proposed work is $7m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
 in reply -The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  has contended that this is a matter of expensive political gimmickry and he has mentioned the names of the Premier of Western Australia and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam).  What he failed to mention, of course, was that this whole proposal has had the enthusiastic support of the Lord Mayor of Perth,  Mr Lee-Steere.  It is interesting to note that in a recent Press statement those 3 distinguished gentlemen together said certain things. I certainly will not read the whole statement; their hopes are expressed in these passages: 
A new Plaza will be created in Forrest Place, Perth. 
In addition, the Australian Post Office proposes to construct a new Administrative Centre adjacent to the existing Perth GPO. 
The two developments will be made possible by an exchange of land between the Australian Government and the Perth City Council. 
The Prime Minister promised the creation of the new Forrest Plaza at an election meeting in Forrest Place shortly before the 1972 Federal elections. 
The Western Australian Government has actively supported the proposal in negotiations over the transfer of land. 
The Australian Government will transfer to the City Council the land on which Padbury Building now stands and the building will be demolished. 
Forrest Place will be widened and public space will be increased significantly. 
This will transform Forrest Place into a public pedestrian plaza, enclosed at the nothern end by the proposed Post Office Administrative Centre. 
The joint Press statement goes on to make many other comments and mentions the fact that the old Central Hotel structure will be demolished, as well as the Padbury Building, and the new Administrative Centre will be erected on part of these sites and part of the northern section of Forrest Place. A summary of what these gentlemen said, which also is contained in the statement, reads as follows: 
We believe that the redevelopment will materially enhance the environment of Forrest Place and will complement conceptual plans of the State Government and the Perth City Council for die development of the 'heart of Perth'. 
It is useless for anyone to contend that this is a State election gimmick and to say in the same voice - what is true, of course - that the Prime Minister was strongly advocating this development back in 1972. The honourable member for Stirling has contended that it is a serious misjudgment of the people of Perth to bring this matter before the Parliament as early as is possible. I have had experience with the people of Perth in Public Works Committee inquiries, particularly in relation to the inquiry into the use of Cockburn Sound as the naval base, HMAS 'Stirling'. I can tell honourable members that all the time the people of Perth can be given to stimulate their interest and to afford them opportunities to engage in a democratic participation undoubtedly will be warmly welcomed by them. I know that more than 30 witnesses, many of them from community groups, participated in the inquiry in respect of Cockburn Sound. I have no doubt that there will be a similar response on this occasion. 
Is it an indictable offence for a government to give as much notice as possible? Is it a bad thing for a government to encourage such a matter to become an election issue? The State elections are imminent. One side of the State Parliament takes the view that this is desirable development but, from what I can gather, on the other side there is less or no enthusiasm about the proposition, despite the attitude of the Premier, the Lord Mayor of Perth and the Prime Minister. Why should such a matter now not become an issue in the State election campaign? When all is said and done, it seems to me that if a Court government instead of a Tonkin government is elected in the Western Australian elections, one of the sequels will be that the redevelopment of Forrest Place, Perth, will not take place. Perth will not get its Martin Place, its Post Office administration centre and some 1,900 employees, in the first instance, and a' larger number subsequently will be deprived of decent working conditions. I regard this as a very important democratic component of the entire argument. 
On many respects the whole question is academic. I think the only bona fide point of complaint that has been raised concerns the fact that the usual documentation is not available in the usual form. Of course, it is wrong for anyone to say that nothing has been presented. We tabled documents today. I do not know whether any member of the Opposition even availed himself of the opportunity to examine the documents that I laid on the table of the House. Probably members opposite have not studied them. Similarly, I doubt strongly whether anyone has taken the trouble to read the other documents or to learn what is available in this regard. These documents will be supplied to the Public Works Committee. 
I say to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  whose attitude about the activities of the Public Works Committee 1 uphold, respect and strongly support, that I believe he is off the beaten track when he tries to draw an analogy between this proposed work and that which was the subject of debate on 24 May 1972  -  the proposal concerning HMAS 'Stirling' and the Cockburn Sound naval base. On that occasion all members of the Public Works Committee were in unison in their contention that there had been a pre-emption of the Committee's options during the course of its inquiry. I am sure that the honourable gentleman has not lost sight of the details. They involved argument as to how much land should be made available in Cockburn Sound. Information was conveyed privately to the Public Works Committee by the Department of the Navy. In the course of events, the then Minister for the Navy went to Perth and made statements and pre-empted the options which were available to the Committee at that time. The then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  acquiesced and in fact engaged in the same misdemeanour. We drew attention in the Parliament to the fact that if anybody else had committed that offence, under the Public Works Committee Act that person could have been fined, I think, some $400 or sent to prison for 12 months. That is one set of circumstances. But it is absurd to contend that what is happening with regard to this proposal is a parallel analogy. It has no relationship to what happened in 1972 with respect to the Cockburn Sound proposal. 
The only cause for complaint here is that the documents are not available. But the fact of the matter is that the Public Works Committee probably will not even get a chance to look at this matter between now and the next 2 or 3 months. I know, because I have referred work to it, that it is engaged in an examination of the Yirrkala school project on Gove Peninsula and in an examination of the Tennant Creek hospital project. I understand that it is also engaged in an inquiry into a health laboratory project in Melbourne as well. So there is a great deal of work for it to do. 
I want to comment on the subject  of  preemption and the very loose use that has been made tonight of the word. It is not appropriate to try to parallel the pre-emption that took place in 1972 with what is happening now. Let me put to honourable members quite affirmatively that every time a Minister sitting in a Cabinet meeting makes a decision about the referring of work to the Public Works Committee he is in effect engaging in a preempting process by saying: 'I want this project undertaken on this site'. The rest of the matter is then turned over to the Public Works Committee to test whether the public interest is being served, and the like. There is no point in disparaging or seeking to disparage this project simply because the Prime Minister has demonstrated enthusiasm for it. A proposal has never gone to the Public Works Committee for which the Prime Minister of the day has not exhibited enthusiasm and the predominance of the Cabinet has not demonstrated enthusiasm. Is that to pre-empt? Of course it is not. But that is what honourable members opposite have been stupidly arguing this evening. 
I did not intend to take up as much time as I have taken on this matter. A great number of inquiries have been conducted into this matter over a period of about 4 years by the eminent firm of architects, Forbes and Fitzhardinge of Perth. The matter has also been the subject of study by Professor  G.  Stephenson, a town planning consultant, and the City Planner. A very comprehensive document entitled 'Environmental Impact Statement - Administration Centre, Perth, Western Australia' is a summary of a considerable number of studies. The headings of the document  will  demonstrate to honourable members the extent to which this matter has been investigated. Let me mention some of the headings: Objectives of the proposal; examination of possible alternatives; project description; project location; impact issues; comments by local government  authorities  and consultants; visual impact; building operations; noise; wind effects; smoke emission; sunshine; waste disposal services; public transport; parking and traffic flow;economic impact; compliance with authorities. That list of considerations is as extensive as any that has ever gone to the Public Works Committee in respect of any proposal into which I inquired, and I was involved in, I suppose, 60 or 70 inquiries in the period in which I was a member of the Public Works Committee. 
Let me say that no discourtesy is being shown to the Public Works Committee. When the Committee sets about its task it will have a very wide variety of material available to it. I believe that it will have the product of a cooperative endeavour on the part of local, State and Federal government. I believe that the Committee will preside over an inquiry which will be extremely democratic in nature - in fact, unprecedented in that regard. I believe that the people of Western Australia generally and Perth in particular will participate as they have never participated before. There will be no intrusion into the work of the Public Works Committee. 1 hope that as a result of this early application to the very great challenge with which it is confronted the work of the Committee will be more effectively facilitated and the voice of the people will be more effectively heard. 
Question put: 
That the motion  be agreed to. 
 The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  in the closing stages of his address made some references to the attitude of the various sections of the building industry to the current building situation. He may or may not be aware of the fact that this Government has regular meetings periodically with the building industry. The Government keeps itself very well informed about current trends in that industry. The Government, in fact, identified as long as 12 months ago the claim by a number of sectors of the building industry that more money should be made available for housing purposes. Often there is a tendency to scream wolf prematurely. Of course, if the Government had acted on such overtures and requests more money would have been released. As a consequence of such action inflationary trends in the building industry would have increased. The honourable member for Herbert may laugh. But he must concede the point that the building industry cannot build more houses than the building force can provide. At this stage in 1974, we have full employment in the building industry. 
We have listened to the honourable member for Herbert spearheading the Opposition's socalled attack on the housing situation.  His  remarks were not only unconstructive, negative and condemnatory but he also failed in every way to provide any firm alternative to what the Government is doing. The problems of the industry as they exist now represent the legacy left to the Government by its predecessors. I notice that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has come into the chamber. He may not be here too long. I say very firmly to him that he must be regarded as one of the guilty men who brought about the present housing situation. If the building force is operating at full steam and the housing shortage is not eased, obviously the size of the building force is inadequate. The blame for the present housing shortage can be placed on no one more squarely and more firmly than on the previous Minister for Labour and National Service. 
I venture to say that even at this time the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is unable to say, as he was unable to say when he was Minister for Labour and National Service, how many carpenters, bricklayers, plasterers, plumbers or any other tradesmen there should be. The fact of the matter is that no planning for the future of the building industry was undertaken by the former Government and especially by the former Minister for Labour and National Service. Similarly, no planning was undertaken in regard to the flow of materials or, certainly, in regard to the flow of money. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who was Treasurer in the previous Government, is yet another former Minister who must bear the brunt of the blame for the present problems in the housing industry. If there is one characteristic which still plagues the housing industry as it has done right from the time the present Government took office, and when our predecessors left office, it is that there is an excess liquidity demand on the building industry. I think honourable gentlemen opposite know some of the relevant figures. The value of housing loans by the savings banks in 1970-71 was $567m. In the following year the figure for housing loans rose to $671m. In 1973 it stood at $l,104m. That is to say, in that 3 year period the previous Government allowed savings bank lending for housing purposes to increase from $567m to $1,1 04m, clearly an act of gross irresponsibility. Trading bank housing loans in the same period increased from $234m to $751m. In 1970-71 loans by the permanent building societies totalled $420m. That figure in the 3 year period increased to $1,1 39m. The present national housing situation was created by the former Government supported by the honourable members who sit opposite now and who dare to criticise that situation. 
We have heard honourable members opposite talk about inflation. Yet I have heard no proposals from any honourable members opposite as to how they would arrest inflation. The fact of the matter is that the Opposition has opposed every initiative that has been taken in this direction. It opposed the 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts which were certainly antiinflationary. The Opposition opposed the Government's moves to regulate the inflow of overseas investment which is certainly an anti-inflationary move. It even opposed our referendum to gain control over prices of land and building materials. Opposition members have not shown any enthusiasm for the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal or the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. 
Some mention was made of the homes savings grants scheme. I ask the honourable member for Herbert: Does the Opposition oppose the new scheme which replaces the homes savings grants scheme? I refer to the proposal by the Government to make interest payments on home mortgages tax deductible. Is it the intention of the Opposition, if ever it is returned to government, to eliminate the tax deductibility proposed by that scheme? Let me illustrate to the House what our scheme means in contrast to the provisions of the scheme that it is replacing. Expenditure under the homes savings grants scheme amounted to approximately $21m a year. The scheme which will replace it will provide taxation deduction benefits aggregating $120m a year to home owners. Approximately 40,000 grants were made each year to home owners under the homes savings grants scheme. More than one million families will benefit from the tax deductibility scheme, not on one occasion only but every year they have a mortgage. The only benefit from the former Government's scheme averaged out at $520 and was paid on one occasion. Our scheme will operate in perpetuity. 
Honourable members will know of the complaints that they receive from their constituents to the effect that a lawyer is needed to establish eligibility under the complex homes savings grants scheme which imposes barriers with respect to age. and valuation qualifications. Honourable members know how that scheme aids affluent people with a capacity to save but does not assist those without that capacity to save. So, in every respect, this Government's proposal, that interest on mortgages shall be tax deductible, is a tremendous improvement on the scheme that prevailed previously. But our proposed scheme is being disparaged by the Opposition. 
Some comment has been made about this Government nationalising the building industry and the homes industry. No statement could be more irresponsible. What we are intent on doing is to correct that imbalance that has occurred among the 3 ingredients in the building industry - manpower, materials and money. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Herbert is aware of the tremendous proliferation of financial organisations which our predecessors failed to regulate in any way. The thought that they could wave a wand and bring about automatically the synchronisation of manpower, materials and money. How absurd that belief was. Why, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said recently that Australia has 1,000 finance company groups, 400 insurance companies, 200 permanent building societies, 750 credit 'unions, between 50 and 80 merchant banking corporations and 27 trading banks with 5,000 branches as well as a number of other credit unions and terminating building societies. How much money these bodies would be allowed to raise for housing was not even determined. For the first time in the history of this nation, we are setting out to determine that matter by way of our legislation relating to financial corporations. I hope that the Opposition supports the Government in that legislation. If it does not and if the Bill is not passed, the stop go nature of the building industry which prevailed in the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Administration will continue. That is the situation in this nation with respect to housing, 
Let me quickly give some figures regarding the current state of affairs. I believe that the facts have been misconstrued to some extent. The facts about the current situation show that the Labor Government inherited a situation of rapidly developing inflation. The LiberalCountry Party Government left it with this problem which resulted from reckless overstimulation of the economy. Certainly 1973 proved to be the best year on record from the point of view of housing activity. But in that year we also witnessed a far too high level of cost growth. The prosperous obtained their houses, but the workers suffered. We did not wish to disrupt the industry so we moved relatively slowly to curb the excessive flow of finance into the industry. Even now builders are still choked with orders and many builders are refusing further business. However, the basic facts are simple. Labor's first year was better than the Liberal's last year when 145,000 houses were completed. In 1973, Labor's first year, 152,000 houses were completed. In 1972 the number of houses commenced totalled 155,000 whereas in 1973 the number was 176,000. The Government thought that last figure was too high, not because of the need but because it brought excessive inflation. That is. why the Government took action. I ask the honourable member for Herbert and those speakers who follow him whether they would have taken no action in this situation. 
On the loan side, far from discouraging and impeding home ownership, Labor's record is obvious. In 1972, the Liberal's last year, 204,000 loans were granted by the major lending groups to a value of $2,222m. In 1973 - Labor's first year - 244,000 loans were granted to a value of $3, 039m. Each of the figures achieved under ' 'Labor represents a record. If it is simply a matter of pushing the numbers higher, Labor can show a trimuphant lead over the Liberals. However there can be too much of a good thing. By half way through 1973 the Government realised that the Liberal's blessed rain of money had become an immense flood brought oh by lack of control by the Liberal Government of their friends and- the lenders. Too many builders and land salesmen joined in the game of pushing up prices, so the Government began the introduction of a higher interest policy to reduce the pressure of liquidity. I give the House three easy indications of the bad things that resulted. Firstly, construction time for dwellings rose from 24 weeks for all types of houses in March 1972 to 27 weeks in December 1973. Secondly, the average cost of home building, excluding land costs, rose in 1973 by anything between 15 per cent and 20 per cent. The number of dwellings under construction rose from 65,000 in March 1972 to 93,000 in December 1973. Unfortunately the losers were the poor. 
The State housing authorities increasingly have failed to spend the money they asked for and which the Government gave on better terms than they had had for many years under its predecessors. The Liberals already had undermined their position by the courses of action that I have already outlined. Government house completions in 1971 were 18,800; in 1972 they fell to 14,600; and in 1973 they dropped to 11,600, despite 26 per cent more money than the authorities had received in the previous year. This money was provided at 4 per cent over a 53-year period. We must retrieve the position and make resources available to the housing authorities. Under the housing agreement we gave the States a record $2 18m. The Liberals had given them only. $1 69m. It was a new deal but the housing commissions have found that they cannot spend the money. Contractors are spurning their offers in favour of the high end of the market. Our advisory committee from the housing industry tells us openly that contractors are getting out of the lower end of the market and concentrating on more expensive houses. The Government does not intend to destroy the industry but it certainly means to restore stability and sanity to the industry and to cut out excessive profiteering. Would the honourable member for Herbert have it otherwise? If the laissez faire policy were continued housing costs would go right through the roof and $25,000 houses would become $40,000 bouses next year. 
I indict this so-called attack as the height of irresponsibility. I do not have time to recount the initiatives already taken by the Government. The first innovation was a planning concept for housing. This and many other important initiatives will bring stability to the industry. It is the aim of this Government to make home ownership available at the lowest possible cost. In order to do this the Government intends to remove liquidity demand from the industry. It will plan the industry through its indicative planning processes, and through many other processes which the Government hopes will bring benefit to the home seekers it hopes to assist in every possible way it has open to it. I indict this attack as an irresponsible criticism of the present Government. Its predecessors must accept responsibility. 
The shortage of cement in Brisbane was first noticed in about the middle of last year. The shortage seemed to coincide with a breakdown at that time of a cement manufacturing plant in Brisbane. There is still a shortage of cement and it is aggravating the reconstruction program following the recent flood. I understand that a considerable amount of cement is obtained from the southern States. The last time I looked at the problem the price of interstate cement, for understandable reasons, was in the vicinity of 17c a bag higher than the local product. I understand that in- a 2-year period to December 1973 the wholesale price of cement increased in the 6 capitals, on average, by 11 per cent, whereas in Brisbane it increased by 17 per cent. The honourable gentleman asked me about collusion. I am not in a position to know whether there is collusion among Queensland manufacturers on the price of cement. However, soon after my appointment to this portfolio I encouraged the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices to conduct an investigation into the prices of building materials. An investigation is currently under way in regard to the various materials used in this industry, including, I hope, cement. The Commissioner of Trade Practices, of course, also has a prerogative in this matter but I am unable to comment on that. It is sufficient to say that there are probably too few cement manufacturers in Australia and it is possible in those circumstances for agreement to be reached on price fixation. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of proposed premises for the Australian Radiation Laboratory at Yallambie, Victoria. 
The proposal involves the construction of a 2-storey air-conditioned building, with supporting engineering services, landscaping, road works and car parks. Construction utilises a precast reinforced concrete frame with external precast infill panels; windows are coloured aluminium with a reflective double glass unit to reduce solar heat load; roofing is insulated pre-coloured steel decking, supported on steel beams and purlins. The estimated cost of the proposed work is$3, 250,000. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first 3 issues were printed by Summit Press. Issues four and five were printed by Union Offset Co. Pty Ltd. 
and (3) The publication is paid for by the Government. Printing costs are $562 per issue, with type-setting varying with each issue and averaging around $90. 
The publication is an official one and is produced by the staff of the Department. Articles are either written by staff members or contributed by outsiders, including in issue No. 4 a State Minister for Housing. Many of the articles written by outsiders have been in response to articles written by staff members, demonstrating that the publication is providing a forum for the free exchange of views on housing issues. 
Arrangements for printing are, as is customary, made by the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
The circulation varies monthly but is in the vicinity of 4,500. 
Some outside contributors have been paid at a rate of $35 per 1,000 words. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Experimental Building Station at North Ryde, NSW, the Central Testing and Research Laboratory at Port Melbourne, Victoria, and the newly established Technical Research and Services Branch presently located at Hawthorn, Victoria. 
The activities of the Experimental Building Station and the Central Testing and Research Laboratory are: 
Laboratory testing and evaluation of natural or processed building materials, building components or methods of construction; 
Participation in the work of technical and management committees of the Standards Association of Australia, which develops standards which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection in the fields of building materials and building technology. 
In 'the Technical Research and Services Branch there will be four sections dealing with: 
Technical Development - to investigate and promote newer and better ways of housing design and construction, keeping in mind economic factors. 
Regulations and Standards - to develop and promote Australia-wide minimum and optimum requirements for aspects of housing which can be or are regulated; and to eliminate unnecessary and costly variety. 
Social and Human Factors - to investigate human aspects in housing and to recommend ways of improving housing as a physical and emotional environment. 
Special Projects - to develop recommendations for housing of special groups (e.g. elderly, disabled, Aborigines) or for special types of housing (remote area accommodation, mobile homes, etc.) 
The staff of the Experimental Building Station comprises 20 professional and SO support staff, and the Central Testing and Research Laboratory comprises IS professional and 40 support staff. It is estimated that about 30 per cent of their work bears directly or indirectly on consumer protection. 
The bulk of the activities in the Technical Research and Services Branch will be consumer oriented in its research and recommendations. The total staffing on current proposals is 24, including 17 professionals: 
NSW - Subdivisional Enrolment Figures  (Question No. 311) 
 The Opposition is seeking to deny the Australian people an opportunity which is their entitlement - an opportunity for their elected Government to give effect to the legislative obligations which it has, following a sweeping victory in a general election. The facts of the matter are that my colleague the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is now giving this House and the other place the opportunity to determine whether the Opposition Parties are again prepared to defy the will of the people. So, we have moved a motion seeking the suspension of Standing Orders to bring on for debate the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. 
These matters represent a vital component of the objectives which this Government had when it went before the people in the 1972 elections. We take an attitude which is the direct antithesis of the one that prevailed for 23 years in this country. That attitude is typified by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. Honourable members opposite stand for authority being exercised over these matters by the multi-national corporations. They want to take away the right of the Australian people to have a say in respect of these matters. These issues relate to the question of who owns Australia. For 23 years honourable members who sit opposite did not care about that question. We believe that since there is now this intimidatory attitude on the part of the Opposition it is important to suspend Standing Orders to give the Opposition yet another opportunity to defy the will of the people. Let me give- (Opposition me inters interjecting.) 

 - Mr Speaker, honourable gentlemen opposite are interjecting as I contend that there has been obstruction in the other place and as I contend that the standard bearers elected back in 1967 are still trying to rule the roost. These people who represent an outmoded philosophy believe they can get on top of the Government of the day. 
I do not know whether it is generally realised that in the upper House since 28 February, in no more than 13 sitting days, there have been 35 divisions. How many of those divisions would honourable members expect the Government of the day to win if the Opposition in another place was not frustrating the will of the people? The facts of the matter are that the Government has won but one division out of 35 divisions conducted since 28 February, in 13 sitting days. If that does not represent frustration of a dimension unprecedented not only in Australia but in the entire system of Westminster government, I would like to know where a better precedent is. The Government says to the Opposition that the Opposition is calling the tune and it is frustrating the will of the people by threatening to withhold Supply from the Government by rejecting the Appropriation Bills. We give the Opposition the opportunity to try to hold back yet again these important pieces of legislation. 
The legislation to which I have referred does not stand alone as hallmarks of the Government's attitude and contentions which have been defined by those honourable members who sit opposite. Many other Bills have been defeated by the Opposition. I have a list here - I am not sure how up to date it is - of legislation which has been rejected by the Opposition. Twenty-one major pieces of legislation have been rejected by our opponents in another place. That legislation includes such important Bills as the Commonwealth Electoral Bill and the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, which is the means by which the Government wants to provide industrial peace in Australia. The Opposition will not allow the Government to get on with that job in the way in which we want to. Other Bills rejected by the 
Opposition which have a vital bearing on the well-being of the Australian people are the Health Bills, the Trade Practices Bill and the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. In addition there is a great list, columns long, of Bills which have been amended by the Senate. We say to members of the Opposition that they have already had their opportunity to debate these Bills which are put before them now. Opposition members have already had a democratic chance to weigh up the pros and cons of the legislation, debate them in the Parliament and put them to the people. It has not been the quality of debate or the merit of argument that has counted. The Opposition has used its numbers in another place in cahoots with another rump Party. The Government is not prepared to stand any longer for this kind of obstruction. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: There is not going to be any lame duck government'. The Government has moved the motion to seek the suspension of Standing Orders to see whether the Opposition is prepared to take the same kind of stand. 
 The House is debating this money Bill. Never in the history of the Australian Parliament extending over 73 years has any Opposition threatened to withhold Supply from a democratically elected Australian Government. Now the Liberal-Country Party coalition has blatantly opted to take this reckless course. With cynical contempt for the will of the people, with total disregard for the traditions of the Westminster parliamentary system, the Opposition has put itself on a collision course with stable government and with all Australians who uphold the democratic parlia- mentary process. With the aid of the universally discredited Australian Democratic Labor Party the Opposition has already set out to mutilate, sabotage and frustrate the Australian Government's legislative program. Already 13 Bills have been rejected by the Senate, one has been stood aside following amendment, seven have been deferred and 21 Bills have been amended, some almost beyond recognition. Many of these matters are vital to the wellbeing of the community and critical to the economic independence of the nation. 
Now the crowning glory is this intimidatory threat to Supply. Now the Opposition is proposing to - withhold Government services which are provided for in these 2 Bills - Appropriation Bill (No. 4) and Appropriation Bill (No. 5)- aggregating $170.842m. To withhold Supply of this amount of money is tantamount to setting out to cripple the country, to cause untold inconvenience, disruption of the Public Service and tremendous devastation in many areas relying on governmental activity. Already in another place we find that the Opposition has been ruthless and so reckless in the utilisation of its brutal majority that in 13 days from 28 February to 4 April it has carried 35 divisions and allowed the elected Government of the day to carry only one division. There have been 36 divisions in the Senate and the Government has been defeated on 35 occasions. The people of this country have some knowledge of the insecure and unstable arrangements that have prevailed in some other parts of the world such as the South American countries - 
And in France. They would be gravely concerned to think that this Opposition could be setting out to send Australia on such a reckless course. Now as a result of today's proceedings in this House other Bills will undoubtedly be treated in the same contemptuous way. Obviously the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill passed today and the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill will get short shrift in the Senate. (Quorum formed.) 
The National Investment Fund Bill is likely to be treated in the same way. In fact, it is the Opposition's intention either to oppose those Bills or to fail to pass them. If that state of affairs continues there is no alternative for the 
Government of the day but to go to the people, to go to the jury. We can say without any equivocation that there is a firm determination to undertake such a course. 
The Opposition has failed to make any constructive suggestion in respect of any significant problem concerning the nation. It opposed the Government's revaluation decisions and criticised and undermined' the efforts it made in regard to the making of 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts - a measure which has greatly benefited the industrial and farming communities of this country. The Opposition has criticised the Government at every turn in respect of its endeavours to regulate the flow of overseas investment in Australia. The Opposition has certainly shown no enthusiasm for putting forward alternative proposals but it has shown plenty of opposition to the Government's attempts to control prices. It criticised the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. It undermined the Government's efforts to provide effective restrictive trade practices legislation. The Opposition opposed the referendum on prices. In many ways it has rendered a very grave disservice to the people of this country. 
The Opposition now aspires, by stopping Supply, to resume control of the treasury bench. The actions of the Opposition are clearly understood by the people. They know what would be the order of the day if a Liberal-Country Party coalition were to prevail again on the treasury bench. It would set out to slow down education reform. That has been clearly demonstrated by the tenor of the debate that has taken place. It would continue to block the introduction of a national health scheme. It would stop the automatic ascendancy of pensions to a prescribed rate of the average weekly earnings. 
The Liberal-Country Party coalition would probably re-introduce conscription. It would prevent the elimination of the means test. It would sell out our resouces to overseas domination. It would jettison Australia's control of its oil and mineral industries. Indeed it would throw out the tax deduction scheme which is going to provide benefits to the tune of SI 20m a year to well over one million Australian families. 
It is very doubtful whether it could contemporise its attitude even to concede that China exists because that was the way in which it approached that issue for 23 years. A Liberal-Country Party government would prevent the giving of Federal aid to local government, aid for sewerage, aid for growth centres and for so many other matters. 
The policy of the Liberal and Country parties on housing has always been negative to the point that it has scarcely existed at all. Let us examine the legacy of recklessness relating to housing that the Labor Government inherited from its Liberal-Country Party predecessors. In the 3 years prior to the Labor Government's election at the end of 1972 a massive upswing in lending by banks, major life offices and permanent building societies occurred - so much so that the total amount of loans approved by these lenders in 1972, that is $2,28 lm, was 62 per cent higher than in 1971 and 105 per cent higher than in 1970. Loan approvals by all banks and major life offices were 72 per cent greater in amount than in 1970 and there was an even larger increase - 179 per cent - in the lendings by permanent building societies, a group of institutions not subject to control by the Australian Government. The Labor Government has therefore inherited a situation in which the effective demand for housing has been rising extraordinarily as a result of the unprecedented increase in home loans. There would be nothing wrong with pouring such immense amounts of money into housing if the previous Government had taken the proper steps to build up the supply of materials and the labour force necessary to cope with such demands, but it failed to do so. As a result thousands of people are experiencing great difficulty in their bid to secure a home. We have done the best we can. In fact, Labor's first year saw the completion of more houses in 1973 than were completed in 1972, which was the last year in office of the Liberal-Country Party coalition. 
Let us have a look at the number of completions. In Labor's first year in office - 1973 - 152,000 houses were completed. In the last year of office of the Liberal-Country Party coalition 145,000 houses were completed. Those are the figures presented by the Commonwealth Statistician. Let us look at the loan situation. In 1972 - the present Opposition's last year in government - 204,000 loans to the value of $2,222m were made by major lending groups. Labor's first year saw 244,000 loans to the value of $3,093m made. But the great flood of money which was released by the Liberal-Country Party coalition increased the construction time of a house from 24 weeks in March 1972 to 27 weeks in December 1973. That was a part of the price that had to be paid. The average cost of home building, excluding land costs, rose in 1973 by between 15 per cent and 20 per cent for the same reasons. 
That inflation and delay affected the strong efforts which the new government was making to assail the deficiency of homes for the low income group. Do honourable members know what the Government has had to do? It has had to ease the liquidity demand on the building industry to slow down the flood of money. I do not know whether any other course of action could have been taken in the short term. It is interesting to know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who has been critical about this course of action, said himself on 26 July 1973 that the first way to cut down private spending is by making money scarcer and therefore dearer. That is the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition - the former Treasurer. He is hardly in a position to quibble at the attitude taken by the present Government in its attempt to deal with the product of 23 years of reckless government. 
So many things have happened in the short period of a little over a year of the present Administration.' A new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement that will provide enormous benefits to the States has been reached. Low interest money - 4 per cent - will be provided over 53 years. Indeed the Commonwealth gave the States what they asked for, which was an unprecedented course of action. There have been massive increases in relation to defence service homes. The Government has increased the amount that people can borrow and has extended the range of eligibility. The Government has introduced a new indicative planning process and established a housing research council. There has been a new move to establish national building standards throughout Australia. The Government has already well under way the activities of a task force examination of modern housing techniques. Many other matters are being looked at. A housing advisory service proposal has been under examination by my Department for some months. Co-operative housing is being similarly investigated. New approaches have been made to retirement housing and student housing - terminology which has never been heard of from the Opposition benches. New proposals concerning tailored mortgages are receiving examination. A Federal home construction program is being looked at as well. In addition to this, of course, is the new tax deductibility scheme which provides benefits of tremendous proportions compared with the scheme that it replaces. 
I now come to a document which shows quite clearly that the previous Government not only failed to develop a cohesive, ordered housing policy but also did not want to develop a housing policy. In a letter by the then Prime Minister, the late  Mr Holt,  away back in September 1967 to the then Minister for Housing, Dame Annabelle Rankin, some extraordinary statements were made. 
Happily,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The letter was written by the Prime Minister in relation to a request by Dame Annabelle Rankin, the then Minister for Housing, for the establishment of a policy and research function in the Department. The letter states:   we were providing ourselves with a principally administrative unit, even though at the same time signifying our interest as a Commonwealth Government in housing. It is in relation to this somewhat limited second aspect- 
That is the extent of their interest-  that I see justification for a research and policy function. 
Here we have a Prime Minister confirming that a department ostensibly set up to deal with a major area of government concern - under the Labor Government, housing is a major priority - should be 'principally an administrative unit'. He also saw the Commonwealth's interest in housing as being a 'somewhat limited second aspect'. I find it extraordinary that this should have happened. This explains why there was no housing policy under the Liberals. It also explains why this Government was bequeathed a legacy of a chaotic, inefficient and disintegrating building industry, wallowing in oceans of money. I should like to quote again from the late Prime Minister's letter. He said:   . . what we were not doing in setting up our own Department was moving to put ourselves up in superiority to or competition with the States in housing matters by seeking to move responsibility for housing tn the central Government. 
What the then Prime Minister, the late  Mr Holt,  clearly meant was that the Federal Government under the Liberals wanted no part of a national co-ordinated housing policy but was happy to leave the whole thing in the hands of the States. The late Prime Minister's letter continued: 
All this places definite limits in my view on the area of research and policy which the Commonwealth should involve itself in. It should at all points leave to the States what is properly for them. 
He went on to say: 
In other words the level of its activity in policy and research could have regard to the essentially supplementary and backgrounding nature of the Department's role in the housing field. 
He continued: 
We need not at this stage, at any rate, feel that we must have a continuing program of policy initiatives. 
So, this was the situation and it was never changed. Even though there were successive Liberal Prime Ministers, that was the order of the day from 1967. This explains the mess which this Government has inherited and in  the  face of this situation we have had to take  the  whole business of a national housing program from the very ground to initiate for the first time in Australia's history an indicative planning process which will enable us to ensure that no longer will housing be characterised by stop-go policies causing disruption to the building industry and causing people to languish and suffer through lack of housing over long periods of time. I indict our predecessors for creating a mess which has caused tremendous hardship to thousands of people in Australia in regard to housing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
15 widowed persons and 29 divorced persons. 
6 widowed persons and 14 divorced persons purchased existing houses and home units valued at less than $14,000. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with paragraph 18 (8) (b) of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be carried out without having been referred to the Committee: Construction of international terminal complex, Brisbane Airport. 
In moving this motion I would like to give some indication of the reason for taking this course. It is a matter of paramount importance that work begin as soon as possible on the new international terminal for many reasons. The Government does not lightly by-pass the Public Works Committee but recent events in Parliament, such as the intention by the Opposition to refuse supply and force the Government to hold a general election, has put the Government in a difficult position if it is to face the need for a new terminal in a responsible way. Even before the question of a double dissolution of Parliament was raised, a Public Works Committee review of the project would have delayed completion by several months. 
With the greatly increased complexities raised by the intrusion of an election campaign and a general election for both Houses of Parliament, then the delay could well extend to almost a year, given the return of this Government. In the unlikely event of a change of government, the delay could be much greater even if a new government proceeded with this important project, and that would be doubtful. Ideally, in the ordinary course of events, a Public Works Committee report could have been presented to the Parliament for adoption by mid-June prior to the winter recess. Design and contract documentation would have proceeded so as to allow the initial construction phase to be committed early July, thus enabling the weather critical activities to be undertaken before the onset of the wet season. Obviously this timetabling would not be possible with the impending dissolution of the 28th Parliament. Taken in conjunction with these complications, there are many overwhelming reasons why construction of a new international terminal at Brisbane Airport is a matter of the utmost urgency. 
 The honourable member says 'hooey'. Let me hear how many of the following points he is likely to contradict. The present terminal is totally inadequate for these reasons: First, it is too small and cannot be extended because of the adjacent existing domestic terminals which are also too small and urgently require expansion. Secondly, the present terminal is a World War II vintage timber and galvanised iron igloo which is only half the required size. It is poorly designed to confer adequate protection against drug smuggling and illegal entry. In a time of world outcry for top level protection against hijacking and threats to personal security of airline passengers and crew, a building such as the present terminal is impossible to secure satisfactorily. Thirdly, industrial complaints are centred upon the extremely uncomfortable conditions and even physical distress suffered by staff and passengers in a Brisbane tropical summer. The terminal cannot be modified to overcome this major deficiency. It is intolerable that one of Australia's major cities has an international air terminal which would do justice to a banana republic. Fourthly, the question of tourism also arises. Brisbane is a major point of entry for tourists, especially those who wish to visit the Great Barrier Reef or the Gold Coast. It is a disgrace to a country now trying to increase its tourism earnings to ask overseas visitors to begin their holiday at such a dilapidated terminal. How many millions do we lose annually because of archaic terminal facilities? I understand the commercial interests , of Brisbane have made strong complaints about the adverse economic effect of this antiquated terminal upon the economic well-being of Australia's third largest city. It is easy to see the justice of their representations. 
Another powerful reason for an early start upon the new terminal is that the present building is a structural hazard in high wind conditions. Incredibly, given the fact that Brisbane is in the cyclone belt, the present terminal is so unsafe that it is evacuated whenever the Bureau of Meteorology predicts winds above 60 miles per hour from the critical direction. For how long can we tolerate a public building which is so old and structurally hazardous that it has to be abandoned by its occupants when the wind even hints at the possibility of high velocity? This building clearly should not be in use for a moment longer than is absolutely necessary. That is why we cannot afford the time consuming process of a Public Works Committee review. A delay now could mean that this unsafe, hothouse igloo could still be in use 2 tropical summers and several cyclones from this date. It is clearly of great importance to scrap this relic of the past, which the previous Government did nothing about for 23 years, as soon as physically possible and to replace it with a building suitable for the 1970s and the 1980s. Our country cannot afford to tolerate such buildings for a moment longer than is absolutely necessary. As well this building is a fire hazard. We cannot run the risk of allowing a cyclone or fire to demolish this building, possibly with the loss of life. 
I have quickly, cryptically and cursorily run through some of the reasons which caused the Government to believe that in the face of the present situation - the prospects of a double dissolution - it would be irresponsible to take a course of action which would delay progress in the construction of this building. Those honourable members who sit opposite clearly must share the blame, if not predominantly accept the blame, for the fact that the time honoured custom of referring such projects to the processes of the Public Works Committee cannot effectively be fulfilled in the present situation while the House is facing the prospect of an election. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is scratching his head. He would know, first of all, that the holding of an election could possibly take up to 18 May. After that there is the calling together of the respective parties including the Government party or parties. I hope that my Party will be re-elected to government and that we will get down to business very quickly. But even in those circumstances we would miss the summer season to which I have referred. We would not be able to cover the building. lt is likely that that would put this process into a very backward stage. I take the trouble to pay tribute to the Public Works Committee for the service it has rendered over the lifetime of the present Parliament up to this stage and respectfully put to it that extenuating circumstances have caused the Government to take the course of action which is the subject of the motion before the House. 
The first thing I want to say in answer to this question is that at no time have I ever alleged that the Victorian Government was responsible for the action attributed to it by the 'Age' newspaper. Nevertheless, when these disclosures were made in relation to land at Melton and Sunbury I indicated my intention to do everything I could to investigate thoroughly the circumstances associated with the charges, and to that end government to government overtures were made to facilitate an investigation by my Department. The Premier of that State advised the Prime Minister that such an investigation could be facilitated. At this stage the position is that officers of my Department have met with the representatives of the Victorian Housing Commission, and the Commission has given a categorical denial of the allegations made. The Department still has under study a number of documents tendered by the Commission. It is the intention of my Department and, in fact, of the Government to ensure that money made available for welfare housing produces the best possible result and is used effectively to provide housing for low income people. 
One thing is certain, namely, that there is prima facie evidence which enables me to say that some of the land acquired from these companies is to be used for welfare housing under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I think there is prima facie evidence to enable me to say that it is unquestionably the case that this land 'has been acquired far more expensively than was necessary. Other forms are available to State, governments to assemble land for public and other housing purposes and, in my view, the Victorian Government has been remiss in not taking the most effective ways of so assembling land. 
It has been open to the States for months to take advantage of the assist ance offered by the Australian Government to attack the problem of making land available at fair prices. At present, only the South Australian Government has taken the appropriate action in collaboration with this Government and the results of that action are already evident. I believe all honourable members are concerned at the reports that have been made to the effect that, in some instances, land companies made $3m in a relatively short time in turning over this land to the Victorian Housing Commission and I would hope that every possible effort will be made to prevent a recurrence of that kind of transaction. When the results of our inquiries are fully known, 1 will be pleased to let the honourable member and the House know the full details. 
At present the building industry is on the turn. There is still close to full employment of resources. But in my view there are not sufficient orders ahead and if activity is to be maintained it will be necessary fairly quickly to take remedial action. If we find that pockets of unemployment are developing in the building industry, I believe that it will be the responsibility of the Government to act very quickly to maximise the building force of this country to ensure that houses are turned out at the fastest possible rate. That, of course, has been the situation up to now. 
If it is necessary to bring some additive to bear, 1 believe that one of the first methods that should be invoked to provide this stimulation is to give more money firstly to the State housing authorities for the construction of low income housing. Built in to that system is a second tier which is welfare housing. This provides housing for people whose incomes are under 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. I believe that it could become possible for an extra tier to be invoked to provide for an even higher echelon of income. In that respect, the terminating building societies could well be the vehicle that could be used to facilitate this injection of funds and to stimulate housing activity in 
Australia. 1 might say to the honourable gentleman that my Department is at present giving thought to a proposal along these lines which will go before the Government for consideration. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Thank you very much  Mr Hawkins.  Ladies and Gentlemen. I am very pleased that right at the start of proceedings you are pleased that I am here, and the good thing about being here, is that Lucas and Tait know that it's my custom to come to occasions like this to say what I feel, and the first thing I want to say is that my visit is in the nature of a good neighbourly one, in that this building happens to be the accommodation for the headquarters, the Sydney headquarters, for the Department of Housing and Construction. A very large number of people operate from here in the floors above you. I hope we always keep just a little bit above you, but I suppose it is sensible that we should relate together. I might also say, that the Lucas's and Tait's, since there is two of each, are _ a reputable Company, and they have been in business for quite some time. The enquiries that 1 have made preliminary to my visit here today have been of an endorsing nature from people in the associated industries and professions. And then of course, there is the added interest of being here today in respect of the matter which has already been referred to, that there is this new embellishment about land selling to the effect that young couples can be endowed with $500 if they are under 35 years of age, and if they substantially commence their home within two years of purchase. 
I have often felt that developers are in the same nature as Politicians, in the sense that we are all heaped together, and the good and bad are designated in the public mind as being of very similar substance and calibre. Nothing is further from the truth so far as Parliamentarians are concerned. There's the principled and the parisites, and I don't think that principles differ in any way from the study we could make and the conclusions we could come to from such a study in respect of developers. There are indeed developers in this country who operate efficiently and with extremely high principles, and who take off for themselves a margin which represents fair compensation for the skill and expertise which is involved in their work. Whilst in addition to that, there is an echelon of developers, and even people beyond the development capacities, who can only be regarded as exploiters, some of them ruthlessly exploitive. 
One of the interesting enticements about coming here today, is as I've said, that you propose to take this course of action which is designed to minimise the activity of that in-between echelon, those people who neither reap nor sow, but who come in-between, often right at the time the raw land has become developed and sold. They descend like a bunch of hungry crows, and offer margins of profit to the person who is able to buy in the first instance. A quick turn over, and too many of our young people of course are subject to land acquisition which has been the subject of speculation on a number of occasions. 
Now somebody asked me as I walked in here today, one of the ladies of the media, if I was here to give this scheme my imprimatur. Well now all of you know that nobody with the responsibility of administering a Government Ministry is in the business of setting himself up as an advertising agent backing, giving imprimaturs, endorsing for the purpose of commercialisation, or advantaging anybody, engaged in that kind of endeavour. In fact, I remember a predecessor whose wife was once involved with the advertising of sheets, and that necessitated her husband offering his resignation to the then Prime Minister. Well, I'm too fond of my work, and regard too much of it as yet undone, to put myself in that position. And I said to the lady concerned, that whenever the Prime Minister goes out to launch a steel mill it doesn't necessarily mean that the Prime Minister of the day who is demonstrating his interest in steel production in Australia is in the business of underwriting all the upward movements in steel which have manifested themselves even in recent times on too many occasions, or indeed if the Minister for Shipping and Transport launches a ship, and usually it's his wife who does it, then he is not there to underwrite the fares that are going to be charged on an overseas passage. 
Now similarly, I am not here to say that the price of land at Werrington is high or low. Frankly, I have had no opportunity to study its merit. I know that you have a very large scale development there, and I should imagine that there are many ways by which you can ensure that the profitability of your business can be sustained. This kind of thing depends not just on the price of land, of course, that you finally impose, but it also reflects the type of land you set aside for commercial development and things of that kind. 
I know little of the acquisition cost, I know little of your servicing cost of the land, and for that reason I believe that I have to transfer this obligation to determine whether you are offering a good proposition, or a bad proposition, to the discerning home buyer, and naturally my advice to home buyers is to become as discerning as possible in every situation. To go around looking keenly at the comparable blocks of land in the area where one wants to build, and to decide whether this is the competitive price for the block of land in question. 
Now we are here to look at something that might be regarded as a prototype approach to land development for the kind of motive which you have outlined today - the business of minimising the involvement of that in-between fellow who makes a racket out of turning land over, and we want to make sure that young couples to the extent that this will encourage them to do so, actually build on that block of land they acquire within two years. 
Well I think that it is going to be interesting to see how this whole thing turns out. And I want to congratulate the Company on this very novel and enterprising approach to land sales. And I certainly hope that the motive you have in putting things the way that you have put it is fulfilled, and that people are advantaged in the long term. 
I just want to make a few comments about the general situation in respect of land. The fact is, in Sydney, the average block of land has risen by 80 per cent over the last three years, to a level of about $18,500 and this is the highest rate that prevails in any capital city of Australia. In South Australia, the average price of land is more in the vicinity of $5,000 as against $18,500. 
Now land prices, as I have said, have gone up 80 per cent in three years, and when one takes into account the fact that earnings have gone up about 32 per cent in that same period, all of us have to be extremely concerned at the movements in this particular area. 
One of the things that interests me is that the land cost component of house and land in Sydney back in 1968 was 34 per cent, 1971 went to 42 per cent, 1973 to 47 per cent, and I am now told that the land cost is in the vicinity of 54 per cent here in Sydney. In Melbourne, it is still running at a level of about 32 per cent. The land component of the total land and housing cost. 
Ten years ago, a young couple looking for a block of land would need to expend about one year's pay to buy that block of land. Now they need to spend not twelve months pay but thirty-six months pay for the same purpose. 
I am extremely concerned that there has not been .sufficient public initiative from the standpoint of regulating the obviously undesirable practices that have occurred in land development here in Sydney, and indeed, in this State. Let me say to you that whilst I regard Queensland to be the most backward State generally speaking, from the standpoint of political administration there can be no question that they are very keenly rivalled by New South Wales when it comes to dealing effectively with this very important social question. 
For the first time in the Nation's history, we now have a Federal Government prepared to play its part in assailing this problem. And it is gratifying that the State of South Australia, led by a contemporary Premier, responded more quickly, more promptly, than any other State Leader. So that quite some time ago, a considerable amount of money was accepted by that State and has been expended. A total of $8.2m has been expended on the acquisition of some 9,000 blocks of land, not for the purpose of monopolising the land market, not for the purpose of squeezing out the developers, but for the purpose of giving very real effect to the thing that we all stand for - competition. 
And just as Governments play a regulatory part in many fields such as banking and air services, there seems to me to be a very real necessity for Governments to demonstrate that some kind of competition in the land area, not unfair competition, but one can not get away from the fact that Governments have advantages. 
I was also pleased to see that the most contemporary Liberal Premier in Australia, that is,  Mr Hamer  in Victoria, recently responded to the overtures of the Commonwealth Government and accepted an amount in excess of $27m for the purpose of getting under the neck of the unreasonable developers and speculators, and that is already playing a part in keeping land costs down there, to a relatively low level compared with New South Wales. 
Here in this State, the continued overtures by my colleague,  Mr Uren,  about offering $28m as an initial contribution to a land assembly programme has for unaccountable reasons been flatly refused by  Sir Robert  Askin. Now one has to speculate as to the reasons for this failure to co-operate. You know, in my own Electorate, some 20 miles out from Sydney, just a short time ago Crown Land was offered out there and the reserve price on 24 blocks of land was in the vicinity of $18,000. Only two blocks had a reserve price under $13,000. 
The State Government here has made $8.4m profit out of Crown Land sales, and yet is prepared to offer so little back itself in the business of land assembly, and then as I have said, flatly refuses to co-operate with the Federal Government. Now for the reasons I have mentioned, and the fact that we now find that land and houses, and the combination of the two, are going beyond the reach of people, and that predominately the reason for this is the land cost factor. Its imperative that we get more co-operation, not just with Governments, but with developers as well. Quite frankly, I think the day has just about gone when any developer can go out and find a piece of green belt land, have it redesignated and require the servicing of that and the whole public echelon of services to come following in the wake of that original initiative. 
Obviously, the whole approach has to be planned. We will never want the bureaucrats doing the whole lot. That would be a most ungaily innovation, but there is a part for the Public Service and Government enterprise to play, and I believe that we are going to move from here into an era where the reputable developers who can effectively give an account of their stewardship in their chosen field of endeavour, can be called into effective partnership by Governments in joint ventures. 
No longer can we have the ribbon development, the spreadeagled unutilised services, as a characteristic of land development. From here on we need to develop suburbs, whole suburbs, with all the head works and all the roads and the schools and the pre-schools, with aesthetic approaches by planners and architects. And there is a place, as I have said, for competitive and efficient developers. 
Unfortunately, we have had some decades of developers emerging from anywhere calling themselves developers, taking finance company money. I find myself in strange . company, because I have often made adverse speeches, I suppose as most Parliamentarians have, about that beleaguered combination, finance companies and developers. That is not to say, that I disparage them all. 
I disparage the fact for all kinds of reasons, including reasons that you can attribute to Governments, too much of the whole business of providing houses and land is turned over to finance companies instead of coming from the lower range of finance, the lower range of interest rates, and the expansion of finance company involvement is unjustifiable and unsupportable. And in my view, cannot be sustained for a long period of time. 
So we are going to look very hard at this joint venture operation. I hope that the kind of situation that will evolve from this is that the planners will identify lovely parts of Australia which are suitable for development and they will say to companiesget your experts in some instances, and in other instances have the benefit of the Government ones, draw up these plans and we will ensure that you have the benefit of low interest money for your land acquisition, for all your development, for the construction of your houses, indeed. Provided you are able to show that the benefit of that high turn-over you pass on - you can show that you pass on advantages to the consuming public. 
Now in my own ramifications, I administer the best part of $1,000 million a year, a great deal of it is directed to housing. For far too long, Governments have been making money available for housing, not caring terribly much how it is being spent, and at what price it is turned out to the consuming public in the end. 
Those things, in this country, and I believe just about in the whole world, are starting to cut out. One of the things I have hopes about in regard to Lucas and Tait, not exclusively, but surely them among others, is that they are capable of contemporising their attitudes. I think the matter that they put up to us today is a case in point, an example that we are going to watch with interest. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, if Lucas and Tait's are engaged in a ripoff and I wouldn't for one solitary moment suggest that they are, its the worst thing that they have ever done in their business career, because they have attracted the interest of the Minister for Housing and Construction, they have attracted the interest of the Media,  Mr Mulock,  a State Member of Parliament, and a number of others, and they will be watched with very close interest with very great discernment, and by the consuming people outside as well. 
I believe their motives are good. I believe that we have something to watch, and I hope there is going to be highly beneficial things accrue. Let me just say one or two other things in conclusion. Today or yesterday we have had announcements about some other factors which contribute to (Speech ran out on Tape Recording). 
As the transcript of my speech shows, I made perfectly clear that I was not present to give the company scheme my imprimatur, endorsement or support. Page 3 of my speech makes this clear. On Friday, 5 July, in the first edition of the 'Sun' and all editions of the 'Daily Mirror' there appeared a full page advertisement, which 1 seek leave to table. 
I seek leave to table it. 
Thank you. This advertisement was laid out in a style similar to a news page except that it carried the required 'Advertisement' heading in small type at the top of the page. Although the advertisement included in its body copy one of my statements that I was not present to give the scheme my imprimatur, sections of my speech were taken out of context and presented in such a way as to give a misleading impression of my role at the function. 
At first glance the advertisement, which used 2 photographs of me, one of them with the principals of Lucas and Tait, would give the impression that I was in some way associated with the development scheme and was giving my tacit endorsement and support to the company's scheme. I believe that an unsuspecting land buyer could well be induced by the form and content of this advertisement to believe that in some way the land development at Penrith and its associated subsidy scheme had the support of the Australian Government. I regard this advertisement as a very grave breach of commercial and advertising morality in that the company endeavoured to use my presence at its function to suggest Government backing for a land development scheme. I was never consulted or informed by the company or any of its agents that this advertisement was intended for placement in 2 major newspapers only 2 days after I spoke. I' immediately sent a telegram to the company, which I seek leave to include in Hansard, expressing my grave concern at the company's action. 
Gravely concerned with your advertisements contained today's newspapers which misleadingly give the impression that I am endorsing the Werrington county project stop 
As you know 1 have not been consulted either about your intention to publish such advertisements or the form they have taken stop 
It must have been completely clear to you from the remarks 1 made at your function last Wednesday that my presence was in no way to be regarded as an endorsement of the Werringtonland project or the subsidy for young couples scheme which is associated with the project stop 
In factI made direct reference to the impropriety of Ministers being associated with commercial advertising and indicated that I would not engage in this practice stop 1 must insist that these advertisements be immediately discontinued and that a public and prominent announcement be made in the newspapers carrying the advertisement indicating that I neither gave the scheme or the advertisements my approval and that 1 am in no way associated with the venture stop 
Your acknowledgement would be appreciated stop 
My Press Secretary asked both newspapers to withdraw the advertisement and the 'Sun' newspaper agreed to withdraw it from the second edition onwards. The 'Daily Mirror' refused to do so because of the so-called mechanical problems which would be involved in dropping the advertisement. 1 also released a Press statement on Friday, 5 July, to all media, a Press report of which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard. 
My Press Secretary also made strong telephone complaints about the advertisement to the public relations firm involved and the advertising agency which produced and placed the advertisement. On 9 July I received a telegram conveying an apology from Lucas and Tait Pty Ltd, the development firm, which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard. 
In the 'Sun' newspaper on 9 July a 3 column advertisement was published in the form of an apology by Lucas and Tait. I seek leave to incorporate the text of that advertisement in Hansard. 
It is clear from the advertisement that its creator, acting for the company, was deliberately and improperly attempting to use my attendance at the announcement of the company's scheme to induce people to purchase land from the company. Although the company has denied that it intended to imply my support or association with the scheme, I do not believe that such an explanation could be accepted. I believe that somebody acting for the company deliberately attempted to sell land on the company's estate by the unethical and commercially immoral practice of placing an advertisement designed to give an impression to potential buyers that this scheme was in some way supported by the Australian Government. 
I have not been able to confirm these reports. It is interesting speculation but I think the speculation is based on the assumption that interest rates would stay as they are. That assumption is not necessarily corect. The speculation would be based also on the assumption that income may not increase. I think if one is to look at this question in fair perspective it would be necessary to take into account the Government's declared intention to provide tax deductibility for mortgage interest rates which, if I remember correctly, the Treasurer contended in general terms would involve a reduction in interest rates in the vicinity of 3 per cent. If those tax deductibility benefits were applied to the liquidation of loans and if the other factors to which 
I have referred were applied in the manner which I have suggested there is every likelihood that loans would be liquidated as quickly as they were originally intended to be. 
Like other honourable members and Ministers I have been inundated with expressions of concern by anxious ex-servicemen who have taken this statement seriously.  Mr Hines,  .the New South Wales  President  of the Returned Services League, contended that the Government planned to limit eligibility for defence service home loans to, I think, ten years after discharge. The effect of his statement was that Vietnam veterans would have only one year of eligibility remaining, and the veterans of the previous wars would no longer be eligible. This contention of  Mr Hines  is completely without foundation and already I have taken steps to inform honourable members that the Government had never contemplated such action. In fact, I have circularised every Returned Services League sub-branch in Australia to that effect. The Government regards defence service home loans as a reward for service and as a process by which ex-servicemen can be rehabilitated in respect of their housing needs. 
This is a complex matter; it needs some explanation. The right honourable gentleman and his colleagues have been good enough to give me the opportunity to deal with it in a discussion on a matter of public importance which will follow question time and I will be pleased to talk about the matter during that debate. 
I did see a report of some remarks attributed to the  President  of the Canberra Timber Merchants Association which may be the ones to which the honourable gentleman is referring. They were to the effect that some slack was emerging in the building industry in the Australian Capital Territory. I might say that I am not responsible for housing in the Australian Capital Territory. Nevertheless, it does not come as any surprise to me to learn that there may be some early evidence of the Government's policy of achieving a moderate abatement in the building industry taking effect. 
There is, of course, always a tendency for people to cry wolf prematurely. In fact, I might add that representatives of the various sections of the building industry have been calling for well over 12 months for relief and additional funds for the building industry. Of course, if we had heeded and acted upon those requests the moderate abatement sought certainly would not have been achieved. It is interesting to note that in Canberra there is no unemployment of consequence. In fact the June figures show that in the skilled building and construction industry there were 3 people unemployed and 56 vacancies. The figures for the whole of Australia indicate that we had the best employment figures in this industry since 1965. I would not be surprised if there is some added evidence of materials becoming excessively available throughout Australia. 
In the final part of his question the honourable gentleman asked me about the capacity of the public sector to take up the slack. Already the Government has announced its intention to provide this year $23 5m under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, compared with $2 18m provided last year. The Prime Minister, at the Premiers Conference, indicated that the Government would be prepared to review the progress of the housing authorities at a later stage this year to see whether they had an added capacity. If it were shown that they had, there would be a very real likelihood of additional funds being made available. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who has just resumed his seat, should be the last one to talk about beating around the bush. 1 do not intend to; nor do I intend to blame the States, although I suppose that the States have to accept their share of the blame when it is related to the kind of indifference which  Sir Robert  Askin has displayed in relation to the offer of Federal money for land. One could certainly attribute some blame to a State which assembles land in an expensive way by taking it over from finance companies when there are other ways and options open for that State authority to engage in the land assembly process. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with section 18 (8) (b) of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed works' be carried out without having been referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works: Construction of primary and preschools at Katherine, Anula and Wulagi, N.T. 
The estimated costs of the proposed works, exclusive of rise and fall adjustments, under the contracts are: Katherine, $2. 2m; Anula, $2.33m; and Wulagi, S2.35m. Speaking very briefly to the motion, I should like to say that my Department prepared design solutions for these 3 schools and prepared detailed estimates of the costs after design development. All estimates at that time were well under the limit of $2m. Based on these limit of cost estimates the 3 projects were included in the 1973-74 new works program with March 1974 tender target dates. My Department prepares a preliminary estimate in the initial stages of design and development of a project which is based on the sponsor's briefing requirement but before any significant design development is undertaken. This is the estimate upon which Cabinet approval is sought for those major projects requiring Cabinet approval. Subsequently a limit of cost estimate is prepared after a degree of design development has been undertaken but generally before detailed documentation is commenced. 
Projects below the $2m mandatory reference limit for Public Works Committee review are generally included in design list A or B or the works program at the preliminary estimate stage. This authorises the Department to complete documentation to tender readiness stage - that is, design list A or B - and then call tenders for the works program. Projects requiring mandatory review by the Public 
Works Committee are considered for inclusion in this category when, on the preparation of the limit of cost estimate, it is established that the estimate for work will exceed $2m. 
These 3 schools are urgently required for occupancy by the beginning of the 1976 school year; but the tenders, when received in May this year, were all for more than $2m. Because of the parliamentary situation at that time - that is, the double dissolution and the events that followed - and because of the delay in these projects and others in similar circumstances which will eventuate in the future should it be necessary to refer such projects to the Public Works Committee, it was proposed that the Act be amended by an appropriate definition of 'estimated cost' which would describe the stage of development at which the estimated cost was relevant to the mandatory provision of the Act, and by this means to exempt such projects from Public Works Committee review. 
This course of action was proposed to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who agreed that a Bill be introduced urgently in advance of other proposed amendments to the Act to cover the general problem of increases in cost estimates beyond . the statutory provision of $2m. Cabinet approved of amendments to the Act along the lines outlined. The Treasurer has advised that it would be preferable to propose exemptions of these projects from review under section 1 8 (8) (b) of the Public Works Committee Act, thus removing any necessity for making retrospective provision in the proposed amendment to allow these 3 projects to proceed. The contract documents provide for rise and fall provisions to apply from one week before tenders closed; that is, on 21 May 1974. The tenderers have been approached and have advised that provided contracts are let by 22 July their tenders, as submitted on 21 May 1974, will stand. Based on tenders received, the estimated costs of these 3 projects, exclusive of rise and fall provisions, are in excess of $2m each. Accordingly, this motion seeks their exemption from review by the Public Works Committee for the very sensible reasons which have been outlined. 
The honourable member should know that this is an appropriate question to direct to my colleague the Treasurer. The question concerns Government policy. It is not appropriate for me to answer it now, but I would not be surprised if the strong advocacy contained in the honourable member's speech will be taken into account by my colleague. That is about all I have to say on it. 
 Mr Speaker- 
No,  Mr Speaker.  I was going to retort to the claim by the Leader of the Opposition and refute the claim that he has been misrepresented. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 

 - Mr Speaker, the Leader of the House would be the one to reply to the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition. I am seeking leave to make a statement and the Leader of the Opposition has said that he will grant it provided leave is granted for the Opposition subsequently to make a statement. I should like the opportunity to refute what the Leader of the Opposition said. 
I will probably either seek leave tomorrow to make a statement or to make it plain that I have been misrepresented. 
 My colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  no doubt will reply to most of the points made by Opposition speakers. Although I have here a great stack of notes from my Department which has had a considerable amount to do with the preparation of this scheme as commissioned by the Department of Urban and Regional Development, I do not think it is appropriate for me to go over much of the ground which is understood by honourable members and which to some extent has been outlined by the Minister. As the Minister has said, the Bill is required to give parliamentary approval to the National Capital Development Commission for the construction of the Googong Dam and the associated works on the Queanbeyan River in New South Wales as the next major water supply for Canberra and Queanbeyan. 
I find it a little remarkable that there is some criticism of a government which has been in office for only 20 months for the possible failure of the Canberra water supply. This matter has been talked about for a long time. Probably some decades ago there was speculation as to the inevitable inadequacy of the Canberra water supply, that one day it would be incapable of serving the purpose. I know that in 1967 investigations of an advanced nature were well and truly under way. I know something of the complications which were encountered at that time. 
That is right, there were 4 options. There were a number of problems because this most conglomerate matter involved all facets of government, with the Federal Government on the one hand and the State Government on the other hand. I readily acknowledge the fact that our predecessor Government had a lot of problems but the point I am making in reply to criticism is that this Government in 20 months has brought the matter together in a very impressive and effective way. The operation involves the delicate matter of State sovereignty, acquiring land from a Slate and so on. I believe that my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development should be given very great credit for bringing this measure to the Parliament so quickly in the lifetime of the present Government. I am able to say that because, as I pointed out initially, my Department was called on to do a number of things. So I have some awareness of these matters. 
The Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909-1955 gave the Australian Government paramount rights over the waters of the Queanbeyan and Molonglo Rivers. It underlines the farsightedness of the people who prevailed at that time. Negotiations have taken place between the various Federal and State authorities regarding riparian rights, land acquisition, water supply for Queanbeyan, the control of the catchment area and the control of flood flows. The New South Wales Government has agreed in principle to the construction of the project. My own Department, the Department of Housing and Construction, will construct this project on behalf of the National Capital Development Commission. The Department carried out investigations of several alternative schemes for the Canberra water supply and carried out detailed feasibility studies and design of all components of the Googong project for the Commission. My Department operates the Canberra water supply on behalf of the Department of the Capital Territory. 
I think that my colleague has already explained the present position of the water supply. It is often good to have these things on record but I will not take the time of the House to do so. I would like to mention something about the nature of the construction, otherwise it will probably not find its way into Hansard. The Googong project comprises a dam, a pump station, a water treatment works, an access road and trunk mains to Queanbeyan and Canberra. The dam will be an earth and rock fill dam 55 metres - or 180 feet - high, located in a gorge about 8 kilometres upstream from Queanbeyan. It will impound 119 million cubic metres - or 26,000 million gallons - of water, increasing considerably the 91 million cubic metres - or 20,000 million gallons - storage in the 3 existing reservoirs on the Cotter River. The storage will extend some 9 kilometres upstream of the dam and cover an area of 680 hectares. The level of the Googong Dam will allow direct gravity supply to only the lowest areas of Canberra and therefore a pump station is necessary immediately downstream of the dam to lift the water to a treatment plant on elevated ground nearby. 
Treatment of water is necessary because of the occurrence of high turbidity during freshes in the river and because the catchment is occupied by a population of about 500 persons following pastoral pursuits. Treatment will include flocculation, sedimentation, filtration, chlorination and fluoridation to ensure a high quality water conforming in all respects to public health standards. The project will provide full development of the Googong site, and when operated in conjunction with the existing Cotter River system is expected to meet the demands of a population of 450,000 persons. This population is expected to exist in the region in the period 1982 to 1985. The project will be constructed in 2 stages. The first will be the dam and the access road, the first stage of the pump station and treatment works and trunk mains to Canberra and Queanbeyan. The estimated cost of this stage is $26. 5m. It is an enormous project. 
Mention has been made of the environmental impact report. In the preface to this report there is a statement which has been made before in many other reports and on many other ocacsions. It must have been heard. It is very significant and it should have been registered by all honourable members. It says that this document has been prepared in response to a policy decision of the Australian Government in February 1973 that all major projects should be accompanied by an environmental impact statement. That is the fact of life as far as this Government is concerned. That decision was made back in February 1973. The House knows all about that. This is certainly a major project. It will cost some $26m. In fact it will cost more with the acquisition of land. It will be about $28.5m. Here we have a magnificent report, beautifully documented, in respect of all the matters that have been raised here tonight which were treated in a very cursory and superficial way. 
The document is a lot more complex, comprehensive and far more scientific a study than the rugged comments which came from the other side of the House tonight. When honourable members opposite read this report they will find profound potentials about ecological and environmental factors, including the subterranean matters and lots of other things that were mentioned. The document contains 269 pages. It is more than one inch thick. I am told that there are 300 of these documents in circulation. I am sorry that the Opposition spokesman on environmental matters has not even struck anybody who has been able to get hold of one of them. I do not know whether there has been some oversight in the formal presentation of the document here, but everybody who is anybody in this field of endeavour knows that this document has been around for a long time. 
The honourable member could well be the exception to the rule I was talking about. There are usually one or two exceptions and sometimes they are the most unsuspecting. 
I think that my colleague is the appropriate man to table it if it needs to be tabled. Perhaps he will not mind if 1 put a copy on the table so that anyone can have a look at it. He might formally table it. It has been around the place. I am staggered that the Opposition has not caught up with it. Honourable members opposite ought at least to acknowledge that it is publicly understood that from February 1973 this Government has provided these statements. The previous Government did not do that in the 23 years it was in office. But we have these statements now. There is never any defaulting about that kind of thing. So the Opposition has a right to expect these statements from here on. It should know that in terms of the concept of open government Opposition members can ask for governmental documents or public documents of this kind and they will receive them. 
The Captains Flat mine waste pollution and the Queanbeyan sewage pollution were dealt with by my colleague in his second reading speech and I will not amplify those matters. The planning and design of the Googong project has been carried out with great care to ensure that the construction of the project will have a minimum impact on the environment. The capacity of the storage has due allowance for the release of water downstream to fulfil riparian requirements and to ensure that Lake Burley Griffin will be maintained at a satisfactory level for recreational enjoyment. 
The dam design utilises the rockfill quarry as the dam spillway and dissipating basin, and the areas used to win soil and sand for dam construction will be covered by the storage. All disturbed areas above top water level will be revegetated and landscaped. 
The location siting and architectural treatment of both the pumping station and treat ment works are such that, while still being compatible with engineering requirements, they will blend into the natural surroundings of the area and with careful landscaping are expected to be suitably unobtrusive. 
Proposals have been prepared by my Department for the development of the area downstream of the dam, which is quite attractive, as a public recreation area. A viewing area will be provided above the dam to allow the public to view construction in progress and for viewing of the project on completion. Provision will be made for the public to visit the area, including the pump station and treatment works while in operation, to observe the water supply works for Canberra and Queanbeyan. 
The rest of the technical material or semitechnical material that has been made available to me in a sense can be taken as read. What I am pleased to tell the House is that there has already been a facing up to the fact that the need for this work is urgent. I am very pleased to have observed the co-operative tendencies of employee organisations and some employer organisations which realise that there could easily be hold-ups in this project since it involves Federal territory and State territory. A pipeline is to be constructed across State territory and so on, and that could involve Federal and State awards. Unless we determine the terms upon which all this work is to be done, in respect of such matters as award wages, we could have disputes after work has commenced and the job could be protracted. This kind of problem has already been faced up to, and I acknowledge the co-operation we have received from both sides - employees and employers. Hopefully, the work will go on apace and will be accomplished in time to avoid deleterious effects or deprivations to the people of Canberra and will fulfil the needs of the fast-growing community here. I conclude by congratulating my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regiional Development on bringing this very great project to the launching stage. This is an historic occasion. I believe that he and his Department are deserving of a very great tribute for effecting co-operation and coordination among so many different authorities 
I never cease to be amazed at the barrage of distortion and misrepresentation that emanates from the Queensland Government. This claim by a so-called spokesman of that Government is completely without foundation and in fact is at variance with understandings which I have effected with the Queensland Minister for Housing in respect to the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act, under which this agreement is made. The agreement, which provided $25m for the housing of age pensioners, expired on 1 July. Early in 1973 during the negotiations on the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement I gave, with the authority of the Government, an unequivocal assurance that this agreement would be renewed and that we would be considering expanding the eligibility to beneficiaries under the scheme and widening it in many respects. I know that on 22 April I wrote to the Queensland Minister indicating that it was my intention to proceed. I had hoped to bring this matter to finality in the autumn sessional period of the Parliament. The fact that it has not been concluded reflects only that we had disruption of the parliamentary proceedings - another costly delay brought about by the irresponsible attitude of the Opposition. This agreement will be reenacted and will be extremely advantageous to Queensland and each of the other States. 
It is true, as the honourable member says, that there is no provision for emergency accommodation in most of the States, except that often some priority is given to people who are deprived of their usual living circumstances. During the negotiations on the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement I raised with every State Minister responsible for housing the question of whether or not there ought to be some particular application of funds for emergency accommodation purposes. I indicated my own enthusiasm about this kind of matter, but in each, instance there was a negative response. The honourable gentleman asked whether I had sought to initiate anything in respect of aid to local government for emergency housing, and the answer is no. Up to this point of time I have taken the view that it is far better to centralise the Federal Government's support for welfare housing. When I say 'centralise' I mean that I prefer to utilise the resources of the State governments. To depart from that can cause a considerable amount of confusion in the priority system. Probably the best way to allocate funds is through the States. The States through their central register are able to ensure that funds go out to the most deserving applicants. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has declared that he supports the Glebe Lands (Appropriation) Bill 1974. It is the weakest kind of support that one could expect. While he supports the Bill, he admits that he has an attitude which represents the very antithesis and a negation of everything for which the Bill stands. Rather than rehabilitation of the Glebe area he would prefer to see it razed.  His  whole speech typified a bulldozer mentality. Because of our fear of this kind of approach, the Federal Government has decided to take, this initiative. In announcing the decision to enter into negotiations with the Church of England, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and 1 stated jointly: 
Public acquisition will increase the stock of rental housing for certain categories of needy people. Public acquisition will also advance the policies of the Australian Government in respect to the National Estate. 
The Australian Government sees its acquisition of the Estates as a demonstration scheme for authorities to carry out large scale inner city renovation and restoration. It also wishes to use the scheme as a testing ground for new methods of community planning and participation. 
I fail to see why there should be any enthusiasm for redevelopment in places such as Paddington in Sydney and in other inner city centres when it is done only in the name of profit and private enterprise. There is obviously  u  capacity to do it in the name of the people and of the decent things for which governments are supposed to stand. Where there has been redevelopment of this nature it has been of an undesirable standard, and far too often the redevelopment has taken place only to remove the people who traditionally lived in such areas and to facilitate the occupation of those areas by the privileged. 
Our job is to ensure that the cities are revitalised and that the people who have worked there all their lives will have the opportunity to continue living there in uplifted environments. I have heard all kinds of comments and interjections, including some loud ones from the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who makes jibes about the Government being opposed to home ownership. Recently I mentioned that the 2 censuses conducted over about a decade from 1961 indicated a drop" in the incidence of home ownership in Australia during the period that the present Opposition was in government. So the present Opposition's record in government is not too good in that regard. 
The interjections by the honourable member for Petrie seem to be very out of keeping and very incompatible with the very sensitive and aesthetic subject that we are debating at the present time. The honourable member for Petrie and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  who have both been making interjections about home ownership, may be interested to hear that the highest number of houses ever is under construction in Australia at the present time. They may also be interested to know that by 31 July of this year Australia almost undoubtedly will complete the highest number of houses ever to have been completed in our history. 
The honourable member for Petrie should make up his mind as to the premise on which he wants to argue this matter. He can have it any way he likes. 
I was saying that we are building a record number of houses this year. The incidence of home ownership being provided for is the highest in our history. So the Government does not have to be apologetic in this regard. I would say that always in evidence is the Opposition's concern for the fact that the Government is also trying to provide some houses for and to care for the lower income earners in the community. The Opposition likes to think of houses and the basic human need for shelter as being a subject for rotten, ruthless exploitation. The Government believes that people are entitled to shelter in any circumstance. We believe that the people of Glebe are entitled not only to the kind of shelter that they have had throughout their lives but also to an uplifted environment. We want to use Glebe for pilot experimental purposes. We want to be able effectively to identify the role of government in this respect. So the Glebe project will be a pilot scheme which can be emulated and from which expertise can be acquired by public authorities. 
I have also heard - predominantly by way of interjection but also by way of implication by the Leader of the Opposition - some contentions to the effect that proper studies have not been made of this proposition. Such studies ought to be made, of course, as it will involve the expenditure of $15. 75m, it will involve the utilisation for decent housing purposes of 47 acres of land and it will involve some 700 houses that are already in existence. As I mentioned yesterday when the House was debating the proposed Googong Dam project, it can be confidently expected of this Government that adequate documentation always will be available, that proper surveys always will be carried out and that it will always make available to the Parliament the environmental impact studies made in respect of such projects. I am pleased to be able to say that those things have been done by way of an excellent document which was tabled in the Parliament by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  on 9 April 1974. The incredible thing - I think this is worth saying because it might save us a lot of debating time in the future - is that honourable members opposite do not seem to know that documents which are tabled are available within the precincts of the Parliament. For example, they did not know that 300 copies of the document on the Googong dam had been printed, as they admitted. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  acknowledged, I think, that he had not seen that document. There is little excuse for not knowing all about 'this document because in tabling it on 9 April this year the Minister for Urban and Regional Development said: 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report to the Department of Urban and Regional Development on the Church of England lands in Glebe, New South Wales. The Australian Government has decided to purchase these lands. Because only a limited number of copies of the request are available a copy has been placed in the Parliamentary Library for use by honourable members. 
If honourable members opposite want a road map in order to find out where the Parliamentary Library is, we will be happy to assist them in that regard. In this case a very comprehensive report has been prepared by the consultant experts Jackson, Teece, Chesterman and Willis. They are very notable as architects, planners and building economists. The report sets out a number of very interesting facts. Although the Leader of the Opposition believes that the buildings in the Glebe area ought to be demolished and replaced with medium density development - no doubt what he is contending is of a desirable nature - I want the House to know what these competent consultants said about the Glebe area from an architectural standpoint. They said: 
The architectural importance of the area is of a special kind. It does not consist of great houses or buildings of intrinsic architectural merit. Because of their unusual history as church property Bishopthorpe and St. Phillips have preserved, within an area large enough to continue to serve changing contemporary needs, the character of Australian town architecture of the third quarter of the nineteenth century - that important but yet insufficiently understood period, between the gold rush of the 1850's and the building boom of the 1880's. 
Within the area, cottage types and terrace types of great importance for an understanding of the development of architecture in Australia have survived Set among them, in spacious, tree-lined streets, will be found some larger houses, corner shops, former hotels and stores, together with an important group of church and public buildings in the vicinity of the corner of Glebe Point Road and St Johns Road. Altogether the areas provide a traditional community precinct unique to Sydney, which still possess a vital community life today. With appropriate preservation, and some sympathetic development to increase the density of the areas, they could be made to serve the needs of the present day whilst retaining their traditional character as part of the nation's heritage. 
The mate of  Sir Robert  Askin asks: 'At what cost?' As somebody said recently, the New South Wales Government seems to have a complex about developers. All that that Government can think about is whether these things can be done by developers who think in terms of towering concrete buildings. I ask: What is the cost to the nation of the loss of this precious heritage? It seems to me that one cannot measure all these things in terms of money alone, yet there is much inclination on the part of honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Parramatta, to do so. 
I will not read out the appealing propositions that are contained in this report. I simply want to say about the report that it represents a very complex study by some of the most eminent specialists in the city of Sydney. They spent considerable time in analysing the situation and identifying the prospects about rehabilitation. I believe that this development will provide an excellent example of the kind of rehabilitation that can be undertaken not only in Sydney but also in other parts of Australia. 
I was interested to hear the suggestion from the Leader of the Opposition that there has been insufficient negotiation on this matter. Let me say, firstly, that no one can suggest that there is any high-handedness represented by the Australian Government's involvement in this scheme, because the response which my colleague made in relation to this matter was made to the Church of England itself which, by the way of an inquiry into poverty, first of all, and, subsequently, by way of a public statement invited governments - any government - to assist it in its dilemma. It knew that it could not sustain the maintenance of the Glebe estate any longer. It knew that these very line architectural characteristics to which I have already referred were going to be systematically destroyed and undermined by private developers who were coming into the area. One can go to the Glebe and see evidence of this already. Great concrete monstrosities have emerged in this beautiful, historical townscape, blotting out the sun. 
Development is not taking place in any organised way because nobody has been able to acquire large acreages of land. In fact, we have been told by some of our consultants that if this development were left to private enterprise nobody in this country would have the capacity to acquire the whole area, to enable the whole area to be pulled down if that were wanted and redevelopment to be planned in an overall way in order to achieve a sensible relationship of one building to another, thereby getting a proper sense of perspective in relation to landscaping, public amenities and things of that nature. So what has been happening, of course, has been this piecemeal replacement of the beautiful townscape by the most undesirable form of concrete buildings, without proper provision for green space and the like. But the facts are that these overtures were made, and fortuitously, they were responded to by my colleague. That is not to say that the only people with whom the Australian Government discussed these matters were representatives of the Church of England. I have in my hand a summary of correspondence with New South Wales State Ministers, the Leichhardt Municipal Council. New South Wales members of Parliament and others. Perhaps I could read the list. All the dates are here. 
Yes, I will be happy to table the document. I am always happy to table a document. This is a new syndrome for the Australian Government. It was never done very much previously but we do it now. I will be pleased to put this document on the table. My colleague has been in touch with several people and he has listed the dates of these communications and meetings with people such as the Mayor of Leichhardt, the  Deputy  Town  Clerk  of the Leichhardt Municipal Council, the State and Federal members of Parliament for the area. Also listed are letters sent to  Sir Charles  Cutler, to  Mr Jago,  the New South Wales Acting Minister for Local Government and Highways, to you again,  Mr Speaker,  as the local Federal member for the area, and to  Mr Ragen,  the Town  Clerk.  There is a considerable number of people listed here. As I have said I am very happy to table that document. 
Before I say something further about the Glebe I would like to disparage the suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition when he was talking about our alleged lack of enthusiasm for home ownership and said that we have shown no interest in the housing advisory arrangement. I simply want to say that this matter has been under official study since February of this year, and our plans in relation to a housing advisory bureau are now at an advanced stage. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Urban and Regional Development referred to this project as being not simply an exercise in the renovation and construction of housing but also as an exercise in community rehabilitation. As I have said, the purchase not only involves 700 houses but it also affects and involves the lives of some 2,500 people. The project can be successful only if its objective is to meet the needs of the residents. In meeting these needs we are concerned not only with housing but also with the wider concerns of the total human environment. These concerns vary significantly between community groups, such as the aged, single parents, Aborigines and students among others. The constitutional power of the Government in regard to these matters has been well established by the SolicitorGeneral of the time, who is now among us here in a different capacity as the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  That in itself is a very interesting study. 
Many people for whom the Australian Government has particular responsibility are included among the residents in the Glebe Estate. It will not be possible to adopt a uniform and simplistic approach to social organisation, planning and construction. We will need to determine the various groups in the area before deciding on the services to be provided to those groups. For example, if we take the aged people, we will need to cater for the aged people who are well, the frail aged and the chronically sick aged. The services and the infrastructure to support each group are markedly different. It will be necessary to examine, for each group in the community, how they live now, to find out what they feel is adequate, what new facilities are needed and what facilities need upgrading. The Government has formulated certain objectives but it does not want to fall into the same mistakes that have been made in the past by some housing authorities. 
My time in this debate has just about expired but I want to say, as one who will be administering this scheme jointly with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development through our project boards and project managers, that we will be working in very close co-operation with the people, seeking to learn from them what they would like to see the Glebe become. There is no question that there will be a substantial rehabilitation program for a number of buildings. There will probably be some new buildings to enable us to accommodate people who are affected by the renovation program. We will be closing off streets. In some instances we will be creating lovely boulevards and playing areas which do not exist in those parts at the moment. We have contrived an innovation in terms of community experimentation which will provide for the whole of Australia very valuable lessons in the administration of communities that need rehabilitation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
I do not wish to prolong this debate. I say simply that the debate is about a most technical matter. I have the benefit of a statement explaining this technical- 
The Government has always upheld the principle of home ownership and in fact facilitates it very effectively through the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. I might say that more money has been made available by this Government for these purposes than ever before. The facts are, of course, that through the pressure on the building industry State housing authorities in some instances were unable to expend the money made available to them on very concessional terms. 
The honourable member has mentioned the aspect of home ownership as provided for by the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. I would like him to know that, whereas it is true that the present provisions are such that there is a 30 per cent limitation on the amount that can be made available for those purposes through the terminating building societies, the Prime Minister made it clear at the Premiers Conference that the Government intended to take a course of action concurrently with the States to break the nexus of 30 per cent, and to make it possible for the Government to provide an even greater amount for terminating building society purposes if events establish that this becomes desirable. 
In regard to the consumer price index, the facts are that, taking all components into account, the overall increase in the index for the June quarter was 4.1 per cent. The component for housing, as revealed by the Commonwealth Statistician in the document with which all honourable members are familiar, was 5.1 per cent. It so happens that for the year ended June, taking all components into account, the overall increase in the consumer price index was 14.4 per cent, while the housing component was 13.8 per cent. In other words, for the year ended June, the housing component increase was smaller than was the overall increase. This is a gratifying feature of the figures, although everyone will readily acknowledge that the movement for housing and all components is too high and reflects the inflation that is in evidence in the country. The Government is well aware of the situation. The honourable gentleman knows of the steps being taken by the Government to arrest these trends in housing and other fields. That is the fact of the matter. I do not know what the honourable gentleman is advocating. He seems to have a Jekyll and Hyde attitude towards these things. On the one hand he appears to be concerned about the escalating costs in the building industry while on the other hand he does not seem to have any interest in doing anything about it. The Government is very concerned about this situation, and the electors demonstrated their concern at election- time. We are going to do something about it. It would be most useful if we could have the cooperation of the Opposition in the endeavours we are making to arrest the accelerating demand on the building industry. 
One redeeming feature about the whole situation, of course, is that we still have high employment in the building industry. I do not know whether honourable gentlemen opposite are aware of the June figures relating to employment in the building industry, but the facts are that there were 1,836 vacancies with only 1,518 people seeking work. That happens to be the best employment ratio in the building and construction industry since 1965. I know it is very difficult to reconcile these facts, particularly if the honourable member for Boothby is as uninformed as his question suggests he is.  His  question began with a fundamentally incorrect premise. The fact of the matter is that the movement in the consumer price index attributable to the housing component was only 5. 1 per cent. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim report from the Australian Government task force to investigate modern housing techniques, dated June 1974. 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Boothby. The honourable gentleman concluded his remarks by saying that the figures I gave to the House were incorrect. I refer to the Commonwealth Statistician's publication entitled 'Consumer Price Index - June Quarter 1974'. I refer in particular to page 9 of that document on which is given the final figure for the housing group in the consumer price index for the month of June. It is unquestionably the case that the figure is 5.1 per cent, as I quoted. I claim that the honourable member has misrepresented me in contending that I gave inaccurate information to the House. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of area school, Yirrkala, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is to construct a school to cater for an initial enrolment of 250 primary and 60 secondary students, with a further 50 children attending the pre-school. Construction will be of steel portal framing with concrete masonry wall panels, corrugated galvanised iron roofing, and aluminium framed windows and doors. The building will be air-conditioned. The estimated cost of the proposed work is$5m at June 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Re-development of the Tennant Creek Hospital, N.T. 
The proposal involves provision of new medical and paramedical facilities, new administration area, new ward block, new kitchen, accommodation units, and alterations to certain existing facilities to provide a modern efficient hospital. The estimated cost of the proposed work is$4.83m at June 1974 prices. 
I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of proposed premises for the Australian Radiation Laboratory, Yallambie, Victoria. 
The proposal involves the construction of a 2-storey air-conditioned building with supporting engineering services, landscaping, road works and car parks. Construction will utilise a precast reinforced concrete frame with external precast impill panels. Windows are coloured aluminium with a reflective double glass unit to reduce solar heat load. Roofing is insulated pre-coloured steel decking, supported on steel beams and purlins. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $3.6m at July 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
in reply - I do not know whether the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  listened attentively to what was said. 
It is a very complex matter. The description I have read out is very much in keeping with the tradition of the Parliament in referring a matter to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. I might say that it is the usual habit of the Public Works Committee to go into an examination of such matters with the utmost care and present a report on them to the Parliament. In its examinations the Public Works Committee exposes the potential of problems and indeed the attributes in respect of all these matters. It is an effective parliamentary process to enable the most thorough examination of these matters. I believe that if the Parliament adopted the procedure whereby everything was to be explained at this stage to the satisfaction of every member it would be most unlikely if we ever got a referral through to that very effective examinatory body. 
I can assure the honorable gentleman that if the word 'radiation' has appealed to his mind - I should imagine that that is the factor that is involved here - there has been a most careful study of these matters by my Department. It has also taken into account the precedents that operate overseas for proper insulation and for the proper treatment of radioactive materials matters. We take the view that every possible precaution is being pursued. In addition, I understand that there is a lot of parochial interest in this matter and attempts are being made to placate the anxieties of people. I think that this has been done with a fair degree of success to this point of time. So what we are talking about is the proposed construction of premises for the Australian Radiation Laboratory at Yallambie in Victoria. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of proposed Australian Post Office Administrative Centre, Perth.  (Quorum formed.) The proposal involves the construction of an 8-storey building to accommodate Post Office administrative personnel at present in leased premises. The building will be constructed of reinforced concrete with, generally, painted plaster internal walls. The building will be air-conditioned. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7m at March 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed works. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of central health laboratory, Woden, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposal is to provide the administrative and training headquarters for the Australian Capital Territory pathology services and to carry out a laboratory work for the Australian Capital Territory for public health and forensic services. The construction will be an 8-storey reinforced concrete frame building with external pre-cast infill and glazed panels. The building will be airconditioned with an emergency power plant to supply essential lighting requirements and to maintain a power supply to certain types of laboratory and engineering equipment. Car parking for 435 cars will be provided and the area will be landscaped to suit the existing hospital landscaping. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4.4m at March 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973 the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of new telephone exchange, Haymarket, New South Wales. 
I hope that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  knows what telephone exchanges are all about, because I do not want to take a lot of time explaining to him if it can be avoided. The proposal is for construction of &gt;a building to accommodate telecommunications equipment for the Australian Post Office and comprises a basement, ground floor and 13 upper floors. Construction will be of reinforced concrete with pre-cast concrete external cladding units. Internal finishes will be of minimum maintenance coating applied to walls. The building will be air-conditioned. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7m at April 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The prices of houses sold, ranged from $21,113.10 to $29,048.07. 
The valuations mentioned of between $40,000 and $47,000 were based on an estimate given by a departmental officer who is a qualified valuer. The estimate was given on 24 February 1974, the date when I opened the first stage of the Defence Service Homes estate at North Rocks. 
The sale prices mentioned above include the cost price of the land, development costs, technical fees and interest charges relating thereto. 
The amount included in the sale prices mentioned above in respect of each allotment of land ranged from $3,529.70 to $3,918.56. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of animal health laboratory, Geelong, Vic. 
The facility is required to enable work with highly virulent exotic viruses to be carried out without risk to the large population of susceptible animals. The building is also designed to prevent cross infection within the laboratories. Construction of the major elements will be of reinforced concrete, partly poured in situ and partly precast panels. Other elements will be of brick construction. Epoxy finishes will be employed on internal walls. Highly specialised and sophisticated engineering systems - that is, mechanical, electrical and hydraulic services - will be installed to cope with the stringent design criteria of microbiological security to specified areas. Conventional air conditioning and engineering services will be used in non hazardous areas. The site will be fully landscaped. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $56m at March 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
 Yesterday when I was referring matters to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in the traditional way the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  accused me of giving a very cursory account of the proposal and of not knowing what I was proposing or what the subject was about. Clearly he was describing the circumstances in which he finds himself today, because he obviously has no comprehension of the proposition befor the House. It is an absurd proposition that this Government has set out to minimise, circumvent or restrict the work of the Public Works Committee. Let me say that at the very outset. In fact, the honourable gentleman ought to be aware of the very strenuous endeavours being made to examine the processes whereby matters are referred to the Public Works Committee so that opportunities for the Parliament to examine proposals, through the Committee, can be expanded. Reports towards that end are to be brought down in the near future, and everyone in the Parliament who takes an interest in these things has an expectation about the matter. It involves, among other things, the extension of the Public Works Committee's role to statutory authorities. So the expression of concern by the honourable member for Mackellar is completely unnecessary. 
Then we heard all the other talk and mild criticism about what the Government might be proposing and might not be proposing. What it is proposing is a $56m project associated with the rural industry - the largest single investment ever to be made in the country's history in the interest of rural people. That is what it means. We regard it as very significant, because when all is said and done we are dealing with a massive industry with a gross value of production of $3, 000m a year and with exports valued at $2,000m a year. For 23 years honourable members opposite, who now talk with their tongues in their cheeks, left this industry at risk. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the proceedings of the Conference of Housing Ministers held at Port Hedland, in Western Australia, on the 13th and 14 June 1974. Because of the limited number of copies published copies have  been  placed in the Parliamentary Library for perusal by honourable members. 
For the information of honourable members, under section 11 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969, I present the fifth annual statement of operations under the Act for the year 1973-74. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Calculations by my Department on the level of home construction activity over the next 5 years now form part of an exercise in indicative planning which is the responsibility of an Indicative Planning Committee. It is expected that the Committee will examine the Department's projections, which are basically demographic in origin, against the background of the likely future availability of building resources and that in the development of general dwelling construction projections, the initial Departmental calculations will be evaluated for feasibility and desirability both in social terms and in terms of a balance in the supply and demand for the resources of the building industry. 
Officers of my Department have instituted and carried on inquiries in connection with the Melton-Sunbury land deals which were the subject of innuendo- 
 Mr Speaker,  speaking to the point of order, I know of the question  to  which the honourable member refers. It relates to an entirely different matter in that he asks about the relative cost of land acquisition in Melton-Sunbury as against the cost of land acquisition in Albury-Wodonga. The matter directed to me by the. honourable member for Burke is in an entirely different context. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Upon taking office in 1972, the Labor Government undertook a comprehensive review of the then War Service Homes Scheme and made several major changes which were incorporated in the Defence Service Homes Act 1973. Among other things, the changes included an extension of the eligibility provisions to include a person who has served on continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force, not being service that ended before 7 December 1972 and, during that service, has, whether before or after that date, completed three years' effective fulltime service as such a member. This extension which was foreshadowed in the Prime Minister's election policy speech, was brought about because of the Government's decision to abolish conscription into the armed forces and to fulfil its stated aim of introducing conditions of service that will attract and retain regular service personnel in peacetime. 
In the course of the review, the question of extending the Defence Service Homes Scheme to members of the Citizen Military Force and the Women's Forces, who served in Australia during the 1939-4S War, was considered, but it was decided that, for the time being at least, there would be no change in the eligibility conditions relating to service in these Forces in the 1 939-45 War. 
The matter is, of course, being kept in mind for consideration along with other possible future changes in the Defence Service Homes Act, but as it involves a question of future Government policy I cannot give any indication whether the Act will be amended to cover service within Australia during the 1939-45 War. 
Nuclear Weapons Testing by China and Russia  (Question No. 660) 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim annual report of the Director of Defence Service Homes for the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
in replyWithout displaying too much blood pressure in relation to this matter or getting overpettifogging or pedantic about it, I want to acknowledge, first of all, that there are cost problems in the Northern Territory. Everybody ought to be aware of them. They should not be brought into this Parliament with an intended element of surprise. The economy is buoyant. In the more remote areas it has become more difficult to attract tradesmen. There have been instances of a contemporary nature where the Government has been unsuccessful in attracting tenders even. Someone can criticise that situation if he likes. He may prefer a more depressed economic situation. He may prefer to have workmen waiting at the door and equipment stacked up and contractors lined up and ready to dance to his bidding. I know that is the philosophy that has been upheld in Liberal-Country Party components of the political spectrum in Australia for a long time. This Government just does not choose to do it that way. One of the consequences of our kind of emphasis is that sometimes in these difficult or remote areas of the Northern Territory there are some problems and these are reflected in cost acceleration. There has been cost acceleration. I have referred to it in presenting the motion. It is no secret. No one has to be ashamed of it. It is a fact of life in Australia and all over the world. It was in the light of this fact that the previous Committee examined this proposal and the estimate was $4.5m. Then the present Committee looked at it and the estimate at June 1973 prices was $4.83m. 
I know that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has another idea about prices. Some members of the Opposition like to cause prices to look as high as they can possibly make them look. I noticed that he expressed an opinion by way of a motion moved in the Committee to the effect that the final cost could rise to $6m when tenders are called. Whether he was right or wrong I am not prepared to speculate but I know he did not have the numbers to have that motion accepted. So the majority of members of that Committee apparently decided that his estimate was wrong. 
-There it is. Whether they are Government or Opposition members there are rising costs in the Northern Territory. I hope that knowledge will give somebody satisfaction. I give it with my compliments for what it is worth to them. Costs are rising in the Northern Territory and that is one of the problems that we encounter. So I hope all those gentlemen who get agitated are placated by that acquiescence in which I have indulged. 
The other matter is a minor one but it is worth mentioning. I think from the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  the House would get the impression that the Government had been completely derelict in its responsibility for housing at this hospital. That is not the case. As the honourable member for Wakefield has indicated, some exotic provisions of the type which never used to be made have been made. This is a very contemporary innovation. We now provide high standard accommodation wherever we carry out a Government project whether it is for servicemen, students or nurses. The honourable member for Wakefield and I, and also the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and some other honourable members, can claim some credit for causing a break-through in this. We have lifted the whole standard. I thought the honourable member for the Northern Territory would have known a bit more about this. We have pioneered this in the Northern Territory especially; we have certainly adopted this policy for the community college and a number of other projects in the Territory. The project for the Tennant Creek Hospital is a very real and effective initiative being taken by the Government. In it we will provide a village for nurses' accommodation with 24 motel-type units. They will be airconditioned and similar to the standard already established at the Alice Springs Hospital. They will be bed-sitter type units with self-contained facilities such as toilets and cooking arrangements. 
-As the honourable member has properly said by interjection, the resourcefulness of the Department of Housing and Construction is such that we will be able to produce this fine product at a cost less than that of far more inferior basic arrangements. In addition to this village complex to be set in a parklike surrounding will be an old ward of the hospital which is being turned into 3 self-contained 2- bedroom fiats for paramedical personnel. There will be 3 residences on the site, one each for the secretary, the medical superintendent and the senior officer of the hospital. Two of these residences already exist and the third is being built as pan of the project. So quite a generous amount of consideration has been extended to accommodation matters. 
Unquestionably there are accommodation problems in Tennant Creek. Maybe the honourable member for the Northern Territory can use his influence among the Legislative Councillors in the Territory to carve up the cake in such a way that Tennant Creek will get more of the Housing Commission allocation than it is getting at present. Quite frankly I think the time has come when a serious look should be taken at the need to fulfil hostel accommodation requirements in the Northern Territory for employees of my own Department, for employees of the Postmaster-General's Department and for other employees who perform duties of a governmental nature. I was intrigued to hear several times today the old political cliche that the Opposition wants to socialise its losses and capitalise its gains. We find that this applies to housing acivity which is claimed to be the prerogative of private enterprise. But when housing is required at places which are incapable of attracting a dividend to shareholders and where high profits cannot be made, as is the position in Tennant Creek and many other parts of the Northern Territory, honourable gentlemen opposite are quick to say that this is not a private profit making situation but is an obligation for the Government. They want to turn the rough stuff over to the Government but they never want to see some effective public enterprise that will cause taxation to be reduced. 
The proposition to build the Tennant Creek hospital has been talked about for decades. It has been needed for decades in an outpost of empire where some of our most valuable mineral exports are produced. The people in this area are pioneering and enterprising. The Government already has extended to those people many embellishments to their living arrangements which they never enjoyed before. Many public initiatives are being taken in the area including a new health centre, a new primary school and high school, a new power station and sewerage in the town. Here we have yet another milestone in this cavalcade of achievements for the Northern Territory which have been introduced in the short time that the Labor Government has been in office. I commend the motion to the consideration of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I have seen the statement by  Mr Pietersen  because he was good enough to send it to me together with a personal letter, which I appreciated. He contended that there is a serious downturn, as the honourable gentleman suggested. In fact he has been contending that for a long time- virtually since this Government came into office. There is a tendency for people to project such dire developments and consequences for the building industry prematurely. The facts of the matter are that we have just recently concluded a financial year in which more houses were built than have ever been built before in one year in Australia's history. That is the fact of the matter. Indeed, the first 18 months of this Government's period of office have been responsible for a very great output of houses. 
-I saw the statement. I resent it because the facts are- 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970-1973 I present for the information of honourable members the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation fourth annual report 1973-74. 
-Last financial year the Government made available $2 18m- I think some 26 per cent more than in the previous year -for welfare housing and of that amount $16m was unspent by New South Wales and $9m was unspent by Victoria, making a total of $25m. The honourable member asks why this occurred. The fact is that the States, having received such a large amount of money, found themselves in competition with a very buoyant private sector of the housing industry. After all, we are talking about a year which involved a record output of houses in Australia's history- some 153,000. A lot of builders are not orientated to working with the State housing authorities. Some of the dividend-paying companies just could not meet the stringent conditions which are required by some of the State authorities. Many of them, of course, are not accustomed to the tendering processes and are not prepared to subject themselves to scrutiny and the progress payment system. 
The Government has been very concerned that funds made available for welfare housing have remained unspent considering that there has been such a large number of outstanding applications for Housing Commission homes. Needless to say, this year we have made available an even larger amount of money- $67m or 34 per cent more than was spent last year. I know the States have been relating very heavily to industry in the hope that they will get a good response from their tendering processes. In fact, we have told the States that depending on their capacity to spend $235m this year, according to the way they are able to perceive their needs we will examine the possibility of making even more funds available. But what the situation calls for is a lot more versatility on the part of the private sector and a greater preparedness to work in a co-operative way with the Housing Commission so that we can fulfil our aspiration to break down the waiting list for low income families who have been seeking houses for such a long time. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a rehabilitation centre at Townsville, Queensland. 
The proposal is for the establishment of a regional rehabilitation centre to cater for 25 residental cases and up to 40 day attendants from the North Queensland area. The centre will provide the following facilities: administration, amenities, medical centre, occupational therapy, vocational counselling, physiotherapy, central change block, residential patients, residential staff quarters, services area, and an open recreation area. Construction will use steel portal frames on reinforced concrete slabs, with steel stud framed walls. External lining will be asbestos cement sheeting to walls and steel deck roofing. The buildings will be partly air conditioned and partly mechanically ventilated. 
Windows will be aluminium framed with timber shutters for cyclone protection. Internal finishes will suit the requirements of the particular areas. Car parking will be provided and the site will be landscaped to suit the surrounding environment. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2.3m at June 1974 prices. I table plans for the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The right honourable member will be aware that information on the employment of women in the Australian Public Service is presented in a number of regular statistical items, for instance 'Intake of Permanent Staff' and 'Staff Statistics' contained in annual reports of the Public Service Board. I wish to direct his attention also to the special item 'Female Employment' at pages 101 to 109 of the Public Service Board's 1971 annual report. I understand that much of that information is being up-dated for inclusion in the Board's 1 974 report which will be tabled in September. 
I also understand that the Board intends as part of its monitoring of equality of opportunity for men and women in the service to add to its list of regular statistical bulletins one on the employment of women. This bulletin, the first of which is expected to be released shortly will contain a variety of information including details of second division offices occupied by women. 
The Public Service Board has in recent times made available a substantial amount of information on the employment of women to, for example, the Joint Council Sub-Committee on Women. I am sure the Board would be pleased to supply the right honourable member with any available information of this sort on request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Statistics on rejected applications do not record the amount by which the value of the home exceeds the statutory limit, or the precise period by which the acceptable savings and/or residence of an applicant (and the spouse where appropriate) fall short of the statutory minimum of three years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The inquiry by a firm of consultants into the methods by which a sample of recently completed dwellings has been financed has been completed and the results are being processed. The completed report should be available about the end of September. 
Yes. 
-Terminating building societies receive their support predominantly through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Under that Agreement some 30 per cent of the total allocations to the States is advanced through the home builders account which puts money out to a definable category of people, whose income is limited to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings, at an interest rate of 5% per cent. The Government has decided to break the nexus which limits the allocation to 30 per cent of the total allocation so that more money can be put out to terminating building societies under that Agreement, with the approval of the Federal Minister. 
In addition to that, the proposed Australian housing corporation will make it possible for financial support or loans to be given direct to terminating building societies, and this will be done to the extent that the corporation is funded. I believe that if we had the corporation at this moment we would be able to render a very effective service to the housing industry which is in a state of downturn, the seriousness of which I do not underrate. 
-I should not need to do so. It is regrettable that we have not had this facility- the housing corporation- to date because it will be possible under that corporation to monitor the housing industry on a regional basis and to put money out to areas where there is any lag in the building industry. In other words, it is the intention of the Government to maximise the building force and this will enable it to do so. The Leader of the Opposition gives his head a bit of a nudge. I think it is in desperate need of something like that. He may not be aware that the employment ratio in the building industry is still of a satisfactory nature. I do not know whether he realises that. He is obviously trying to convey the impression that there is a great crisis in the building industry. Our consultations with the trade union movement dispel that notion altogether. In fact the trade union representatives have made it very clear to me in conference as late as last Friday that they have not had cause for concern up until now. They say that unless we show some versatility and get more money into the industry there can be a crisis. Maybe the right honourable gentleman is not aware of that fact. But it is undoubtedly the fact that we have been effectively pursuing policies of full employment in the building industry. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detailed and specific nature of the information sought by the right honourable member in this question is such that it is not collected centrally or published by the Department of Housing and Construction. 
A great deal of statistical information on training within the Australian Public Service is presented each year in the Public Service Board's annual report, and it will be noted that specific reference is made in pages 166, 167 and 168 to the extent of the participation by the Departments of Housing and Works. 
The 1973 report for example included at pages 163 to 168 details of central courses conducted by the Public Service Board, courses sponsored by the Board in conjunction with external institutions, courses conducted in the States by the Public Service Inspectors and courses conducted by individual Departments including the Department of Housing and Construction. These courses are run at various levels and in a number of subject areas, and many included elements relevant to the honourable member's question. 
The Board's 1973 Annual Report also included a statistical item on Study Assistance which indicated that a substantial number of officers had either completed or were engaged in external studies in accountancy and related fields. 
This sort of information appears regularly in the Board's Annual Reports. 
In the Prime Minister's reply of 24 July 1974 to an identical question Le. No. 329, he drew the right honourable member's attention to the fact that the Public Service Board, the Auditor-General's Office, the Department of Treasury and the Department of Manufacturing Industry are engaged in a study to review training needs and to develop new training programmes for finance officers in the Service. 
The right honourable member will also be aware that the Terms of Reference of the Royal Commission to inquire into and report on the Australian Public Service include*. 
1 ) personnel policies and practices, including elegibility recruitment, selection, appointment, tenure, training (especially management training), promotion, classification, discipline, morale and conditions of service of members of the Australian Public Service, both generally and in relation to particular classes of persons. 
Department of Transport: Training in Financial or Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 401) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the  1973 notice paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1719) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
Department of Works: Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 302) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 notice paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1719) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
Department of Manufacturing Industry: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures (Question No. 425) 
-I have seen the reports referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne. The first matter he mentioned is completely without foundation.  Mr Dickie  made it known to the conference early in the morning that he intended to leave soon after lunch. In fact on page 100 of the transcript of the conference these words are attributed to  Mr Dickie: 
Unfortunately I have to catch a plane at 2.20 p.m. 

 Mr Dickie came to lunch and thanked me very much for the hospitality extended and then went off for whatever he had to do. There have been some other claims which represent the only marring of an otherwise very successful conference which had a net result of more than doubling the amount of money for public housing that was made available by the Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The other matter concerned  Mr Dickie's  contention to the media in Melbourne along the lines that there was a failure to co-operate in adjusting the needs test for Housing Commission applicants. Rather than failing to co-operate, I made it very clear to the conference that the Australian Government was anxious to overcome the problem that was being experienced in Victoria. Regrettably the other Ministers did not share  Mr Dickie's  view. In fact, at the Port Hedland conference held some little time ago,  Mr Dickie  was in isolation so far as his attitude was concerned. Despite that, I acknowledged that he had a problem and was very anxious to do something about it. The conference, acting on my request, agreed that I should talk with the Statistician about introducing a new seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings measuring device. This is now in process. In fact the proposals which I have will lift considerably the eligibility range for Housing Commission homes. The third matter is about  Mr Dickie  's general contention that he intends to defy the terms of the housing agreement. In fact what he intends to do is to use his own Government's money for Housing Commission purposes outside of the prescribed means test. This innovation in Victoria has been precedented in a number of other States already. It seems to me that the grandstanding to which we have become accustomed in the last 2 years by  Mr Dickie  is now in evidence once again. 
-The figures referred to by the honourable gentleman appear to me to be consistent with the facts. 
-This is not always the case, of course. 
-It is at this moment in the overall situation. The honourable gentleman has referred to the home builders account especially, that is the money which goes through to the terminating building societies. He will be pleased to know that five of the six States received everything they asked for with respect to home builders account allocations. New South Wales received an allocation which represented an 80 per cent increase. From that standpoint the distribution of the funds can be regarded only as generous. I might add also that a total of $75 m was allocated. The net effect is that the Labor Government has doubled the allocation for public housing compared with the allocation made in the last year of the Liberal Party-Country Party Government. 
-The additional $50m can involve an extra 3,300 loans to terminating building societies, and this will facilitate the provision of 11,400 loans in total throughout Australia. Previously in the Budget an amount of $77m had been allocated to terminating building societies; now we have this additional $50m, aggregating $127m for the societies. The honourable gentleman has asked for the figures on a State basis. The number of loans that can be made available to each State are: New South Wales 3,600, Victoria 2,800, Queensland 1,200, South Australia 1,850, Western Australia 1,250 and Tasmania 700. As I have said, the total for the year is 11,400. 
The honourable gentleman asked me whether more money can be made available to the Central Coast where there is an incidence of unemployment in the building industry of significant proportions. This is principally in the hands of the State Government of New South Wales. We have not sought the prerogative of determining where these funds should be distributed. But I might say that I did suggest to the Housing Ministers at their conference last Friday that they might consider availing themselves of the offer of the Australian Government. 
-What are you snivelling about again? 
-The Government is concerned with this practice which has been in operation for a long time and which has the effect of requiring borrowers to pay insurance at a far higher premium rate than often is available from alternative sources. As a result of a large number of complaints and inquiries I have asked the Attorney-General for advice about this matter. He has indicated to me that section 47 of the Trade Practices Act, which prohibits exclusive dealing, empowers the Government to take action. This section is to take effect from 1 February next year. It will be possible, I understand, for lending institutions to apply for exemption from these provisions on the grounds of public benefit or public interest. I think honourable gentlemen would be aware that some of the lending institutions claim to derive benefit from the practice of being tied to insurance companies. In fact part of the arrangement involves the flow of funds into building societies and other lending institutions. In addition to that, the corporate body often receives the benefit of commission rates. I know that there would be some concern on the part of the terminating building societies if they were unable to obtain exemption as they are able to offset their overheads by the commission received from the insurance companies. Nevertheless, it is undoubtedly the fact that, in these times, people should be free to choose their own insurance company. The Government is anxious to pursue that course. I have no doubt that many thousands of Australian home buyers will derive very great benefit from the operation of section 47 of the Trade Practices Act when it is given effect to on 1 February next year. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement on the operations of the Home Savings Grants Scheme for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
When the final report is available it will be pre.sented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government intends to promote a general reduction in interest rates as soon as this is practicable without returning to a position of excessive financial liquidity such as that allowed by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972. Regarding the effect of high interest rates on home purchasers of limited means, we will introduce in the current Parliamentary Session legislation to allow income tax deductions on mortgage interest payments which will have the same effect as a reduction in interest rates of up to 3 per cent. We are also negotiating with lenders to make arrangements in appropriate cases to reduce the cost of paying off a housing loan during its early years; and we have still further plans to make available additional finance for housing using institutions which will be able to lend at a moderate rate of interest. Among these is the creation of the Australian Housing Corporation, for which an initial allocation of $2 5 m was made in the 1 974 Budget. 
In a situation of world-wide inflation it is not realistic to talk about 'reducing ' costs. Steps being taken to check the upward escalation of costs include the successful limitation of excessive demand on the building industry through financial policy; extensive continuing research by my Department with the object of promoting the application of low cost building techniques; and attempts through indicative planning to arrange that the supply of resources to the building industry matches the demands on the industry. 
In considering what steps it might take to assist the Government in this regard, the Opposition might begin by realising that the Government in its anti-inflationary policy is attacking a difficult problem, the solution of which must necessarily involve measures which may be both painful and slow-acting. If I may quote my colleague, the Treasurer, speaking in the House on 13 March 1974: 'Every attempt that was made to do something to control the volume of money, to do something about the exchange rate, to do something about restricting the volume of money coming into Australia from overseas, to set up the Prices Justification Tribunal and to set up the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, has been resisted on that side of the House '. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in the Treasurer's Budget Speech on 17 September it is proposed to make a number of important changes to the Defence Service Homes Act, including an increase in the maximum loan to $15,000. It is the Government's intention to introduce the amending legislation required to give effect to this decision, during the present sittings of Parliament. 
Department of the Media: Research and Development Staff  (Question No. 887)  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How many officers or employees of the Department of the Media or of authorities under the Minister's control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
) What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
Whether or not I agree with what is happening in Victoria in this matter is beside the point. The fact is that the setting of rentals for pensioners' units is entirely the prerogative of the Victorian Government. It is fortunate, of course, that large scale funds are made available at 4 per cent; otherwise the increases in rents would be even higher. A rental rebate system is provided and the Victorian Government establishes an economic rent which is adequate in the aggregate to cover outgoings on units. There is a movement, of course, in respect of those cost factors and it becomes necessary for reviews to be made from time to time. I might say that on taking office I was able to trace the history of rental increases for Housing Commission homes and I noticed that the increases coincided with post-election periods. There was a tendency to increase rents paid by Housing Commission tenants, including pensioners, after an election had concluded. This resulted in substantial increases every 3 years. I have taken the view, and I have encouraged the States to share it, that there should be periodical reviews of rents, and now that is the position. But I emphasise that this matter is entirely the prerogative of the State Government. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of an area school at Yirrkala, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is to provide an area school at the Aboriginal community to the standard of territorial education facilities for the education of secondary, primary, and pre-school pupils, and for adult education and community activities. Construction will utilise steel portal frames with external locally manufactured concrete masonry walls. Roofs will be corrugated iron with aluminium framed windows and doors. The building will be air-conditioned, and the school has been designed on domestic lines to blend in with its predominantly rural surroundings. The building will be acoustically treated and internal flexibility is to be provided by the use of nonloadbearing partition walls and folding partitions. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Committee was $5m. The Committee concluded that the existing school faculties at Yirrkala were unsatisfactory, that there was a need for a new permanent facility, that the site was suitable, and that the work proceed to construction with the proviso that it be constructed in 2 stages if required. Future population factors are uncertain. At the time of calling tenders, the need for the complete building program will be reviewed and if necessary stage II, or the infants building and the second pre-school unit, will be deferred until the local school age population reach the required level. The design of the facility can accommodate staged construction if this proves necessary. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a central health laboratory at Woden, A.C.T. 
The proposal is to provide a facility to cater for the pathology services, public health and forensic laboratory services, and central blood bank for the Australian Capital Territory and surrounding districts. The building will be constructed with a reinforced concrete frame and external precast infill panels with a light coloured quartz finish to match the finish on the existing building. The building will be air-conditioned with other engineering services installations to suit the work being carried out in the laboratory. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Committee was $4.4m. The committee concluded that there was a need for a central facility, that the site was suitable, and that the work should proceed to construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a new telephone exchange at Haymarket, N.S.W. 
The proposal is for the construction of a tower building comprising a basement, ground and 13 upper floors to house telecommunications equipment to meet the needs of local subscribers and for switching facilities for telex and data services to the year 2000. The building will be constructed of reinforced concrete clad with precast concrete units with glazed panels in positions where natural lighting is required. The building will be air-conditioned with high reliability installations to meet the requirements of sensitive telecommunications equipment. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Committee was $7m. The Committee concluded that there was a need to provide a new telephone exchange to cater for future growth in telecommunications traffic, that the functions proposed for extension to the existing exchange are appropriate, and that work in the reference proceed to construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The question involves a matter of Government policy and as such I do not think it appropriate to give any information along the lines of the question. 
I say at the outset that I have appreciated the tenor of the debate and the many constructive suggestions that have come from each side of the House. A great variety of issues has been raised, but time will not permit me to cover them all today. After all, we are talking about a very large-scale department. The estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction aggregate approximately $969m. Of course, the Department not only incorporates the old Housing Department and the old Works Department but also covers Commonwealth Hostels and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. So honourable gentlmen are concerned with ramifications extending all over the country. In the near future honourable members will have the opportunity to discuss housing matters under a number of other headings. We soon will be introducing Bills associated with the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. We will also be bringing down a Bill which will facilitate a greater flow of money under that agreement. In addition we will be debating the defence service homes legislation which is very wide in its ramifications and which even the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  will acknowledge represents a great improvement on provisions that prevailed in bygone times. A State Grants Pensioners Dwellings Bill will' also be introduced in the near future. I believe all these matters will give a clear indication of the very considerable initiatives taken by the Government under the general heading of housing. 
I know that every member of Parliament is concerned that there are people needing houses who are unable to afford them. I suppose it is always the intention of all governments that prevail to do what they can by the standards of their priorities. Of course, there was a great deal to be desired in the priority extended to public housing by the Liberal-Country Party Government which preceded the Labor Party Government. It is highly fortunate that we took office in 1 972 because since then we have lifted the amount of money made available for State housing authority purposes to $3 10m. We have more than doubled the expenditure for public housing purposes and as I go to the conferences and meet State Housing Ministers, as an aside they will often say to me, in effect: 'Thank God you came along. We have this money for 53 years at 4 per cent interest, which is a lot better than the one per cent less than the bond rate which was operating when the Labor Party took office'. Of course, this means that people who would have had no other chance of getting a home-either to purchase or rent- are now being given the opportunity. The adequacy of the funds were such that the States were not even able to spend what we made available in that first year of office. 
We are not unhappy about that situation, but we will make many other important improvements. For example, as honourable gentlemen know, 30 per cent of the funds can be made available through the homebuilders account for terminating building societies. We hear disparagement about the Labor Party being opposed to home ownership but we wrote into the housing agreement the provision which enables up to 30 per cent of the funds to go out for home ownership. Honourable gentlemen opposite will be interested to know that we are now proposing to vary the housing agreement to make it possible for an even larger proportion to be allocated for this purpose. 
Everything we have done in respect of the defence services home scheme is aimed at facilitating home ownership. How can we be taunted as being opposed to home ownership when one considers the number of blocks of land set aside for the provision of homes for servicemen- for homes of their choice? In June 1972 there were 4,992 such allotments but by September 1974 we had more than doubled that number to 11,428. Of course it is the objective of the Labor Party to facilitate home ownership. I want to contrast in statistical form the performance of this Government as against that of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. If one looks at the figures in respect of housing approvals during the last 18 months of the Liberal-Country Party Government and the first 18 months of the Labor Party administration- I will use round figures- it will be seen that there were 239,000 approvals by the Liberal-Country Party Government and 282,000 approvals by the Labor Party Government. In respect of housing commencements, in the last 18 months of the LiberalCountry Party Government there were 227,000 commencements and in the first 18 months of the Labor Party Government there were 257,000 commencements. In respect of houses completed, in the last 18 months of the LiberalCountry Party administration there were 220,000 completions and in the first 18 months of Labor Party Government there were 224,000 completions. Yet we are taunted - 
-There you are. Every statistic one takes demonstrates the competency of the Labor Government. The fact of the matter is that we have just concluded a financial year in which more houses were built than were ever built in a year in Australia's history- nearly 153,000. I am not sure the honourable gentleman knew that and may be many people in the country do not know it. A record number of 153,000 houses were completed in the year ended June last. Probably at this very moment we have more houses under construction than we have ever had before. That is not to say that there is not something wrong with the housing industry. We know the position. In fact, there nearly always is, one way or the other, and that is why we have always had stop-go; that is why we have had this intermittent change from buoyancy to decline. 
One of the things that is happening now is that the Government has taken steps- again for the first time in the country's history- to plan the housing industry. We do not like the situation that operates now and I know the situation in the housing industry is giving concern to many people. I have acknowledged that many times. One would be a fool not to. The trouble is that the Opposition never indicated concern when it got the situation into a mess. It never started a planning process. The Labor Party has. The Indicative Planning Council is now a fact of life. We have not reached a point of perfection by any means, but we have appointed Professor Neville, one of the country's leading mathematicians, to shows us the way to relate manpower, materials and money instead of getting them out of equilibrium as happened during the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government. 
Make no mistake, in the Liberal-Country Party Government's 1960-61 credit squeeze there was a lot more disaster in the building industry than there is at present or is likely to be. There were probably 5,000 to 6,000 builders going into liquidation in that period. That is the record of Liberal-Country Party administration. Australia now has a government which is showing a bit of concern and which is setting off, first of all, to plan. It is now proposing to establish what the Opposition was always ready to disparage- a new housing corporation to give the Australian Government a real facility to do something about housing. If we had had a housing corporation up to now, we could have got money out at variable interest rates to people for home ownership. Why are members of the Opposition opposed to the proposition that the Australian Government should set itself up in such a way that it can lend money to people above the echelons who receive it now through the housing commissions at rates of interest which the people can afford? What is the criticism in respect of that proposition? We are going on to plan and to establish that facility to support home ownership. Of course we are establishing the process of achieving standards in the building industry so that we can get costs down. We are looking at the modern ways of building houses. We are doubling the money for aged persons housing. We are waging an onslaught against the high and spiralling costs of land which members of the Opposition did not care less about when they were in office. 
It is true we have liquidity problems. There is inflation around the world. That is unquestionable. It is also true that we are taking monetary initiatives which will alleviate the situation. I do not doubt that if things are allowed to go along on their present course fewer houses will be produced in this current financial year than in the previous financial year. We were under strain last financial year as everybody knows. That is why housing costs were rising. That is why it was taking longer to build houses, and something had to be done about it. Any party in office would have had to do something about it. Does the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  tell me that he would have remained indifferent, that he would have allowed the industry to be pressured with excess monetary supply? Of course he would not, and neither would this Government. So we have checked the money supply and now we are taking initiatives which will allow the industry to return to a state of equilibrium again. 
Many opportunities are looming, as I have mentioned, to discuss all these things. I hope to be bringing in legislation tomorrow which will enable me to amplify the points I have raised. One matter raised by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is worth some reference because it could be construed as a reflection on the people who work in my Department. It was about the Auditor-General's report and accelerated expenditure in the Department of $2m. I did not know much about this, to be frank, but I have obtained the information. I will not read it now because time is very short. I will make it available to the honourable member for Angas. I can say to him without any equivocation that there is nothing wrong in this matter except the enthusiasm of the officers concerned who were anxious to get their activities under way as quickly as possible, and so there was some disparity in the flow of funds for these particular purposes. I take the opportunity of paying tribute to the officers of the Department of Housing and Construction who, I think every honourable gentleman in the House will readily acknowledge, fulfil their public obligations in a very desirable fashion. It is a competent Department. It is developing greater competency and I have no doubt that in the not far distant future Australia will see itself set on a course which will not only maximise the total building force and resources of this country but will also give stability and provide for the people of Australia the housing opportunity which we all desire. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill is to authorise the Treasurer to pay the States this year the sum of $3 10m for welfare housing in accordance with the provisions of the 1973 Housing Agreement. It will be distributed among the States as follows: New South Wales, $46.41 lm; Victoria, $81. 159m; Queensland, $27.4 lm; South Australia, $45.36m; Western Australia, $35.44m; Tasmania, $24.22m-a total of $3 10m. Taking into account that approximately $25m of the $218,650,000 advance to the States in 1973-74 was not spent, this allocation will permit an increase in expenditure this year of $ 116.35m, or a 60 per cent increase over 
1973- 74. 
The Bill also authorises the Treasurer to pay to the States in the first 6 months of 1975-76 the sum of $ 155m, which is half the allocation for 1974- 75. It will be distributed on the same basis as the advances for the current year. This authority will enable the Treasurer to continue payment to the States for welfare housing in the period from 1 July 1975 until an appropriation measure for 1 975-76 is passed by the Parliament. 
The advances to be authorised by the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill are repayable over a period of 53 years. The rate of interest payable on advances during the full 5-year term of the Agreement is fixed at 4 per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the State housing authorities and 4te per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the Home Builders' Accounts of the States. The repayable interest bearing advances will, as circumstances dictate, be made either from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund and will be on the terms and conditions set out in the 1973 Housing Agreement as amended. Provision is made for any payments out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for this purpose to be reimbursed in due course from the Loan Fund when the Treasurer considers this appropriate. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Housing Agreement Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval to proposed amendments to the Housing Agreement that was negotiated with each State last year. I have been keeping in close touch with State Housing Ministers by correspondence, discussion and by means of 2 formal conferences this year. This constant communication has permitted exchanges of views on the operation of the Agreement and has facilitated the identification of features of the Agreement that warrant variation in the light of our experience since its adoption. The 3 amendments that are proposed in the Schedule to the Bill have all been agreed with the States. The first varies sub-clause (3) of clause 9 of the Agreement to permit the allocation to a State's Home Builders' Account of more than 30 per cent of the total advance to that State. Advances to a State are made for the purposes of its Housing authority and for payment to its Home Builders' Account for on-lending to prospective home owners through co-operative terminating societies or a lending institution of the State approved by the Minister. 
Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the June Premiers' Conference drew attention to the effect of the limitation on the percentage of advances payable to a State for Home Builders' Account purposes. It prevented the allocation of additional funds for private home purchase by needy persons at a time when housing authorities were unable to let contracts for dwelling construction in the numbers hoped for because of excessive demands on the building industry. The Prime Minister announced our intention to discuss with the States the amendment of the Housing Agreement now proposed by clause 4 of the 
Schedule to this Bill. As I have already said, all States have agreed to that variation. 
The 1973 Housing Agreement provides for the application of needs tests based on income to determine eligibility for access to State housing authority dwellings and for loans from funds allocated to Home Builders' Accounts. Overtime has been included in an applicant's income for the purpose of determining eligibility for loans through Home Builders' Accounts. In response to representations from State Housing Ministers and the co-operative terminating society movement I have agreed to the exclusion of overtime from a person's income in determining his eligibility for a Home Builders' Account loan. This variation is proposed in clause 6 of the Schedule and is to take effect from 1 November 1 974. 
The proposed amendment will remove an inconsistency between the means test for housing authority accommodation and for Home Builders' Account loans, and will avoid anomalous situations that have arisen in the past. It will, however, have the effect of increasing competition for Home Builders ' Account loans which are available at the highly concessional interest rate of not more than 53/4 per cent per annum. I emphasise that the Government expects the terminating society movement to continue to give due consideration to the need for home finance of these needy families whose incomes are lower than others who will now be eligible for loans. 
At the June Premiers' Conference we agreed to advance $235m to the States for welfare housing in 1974-75. At the same time, however, the Prime Minister stated that the Government stood  ready to consult with the States on the provision of additional advances this financial year in the light of developments in the housing industry, the availability of resources for housing construction and the ability of the States to put further funds for welfare housing to productive use. Honourable members will be aware that I have since had discussions with the States about progress on their welfare housing programs in the current year. At a conference in Canberra on 1 1 October, I announced to State Ministers that the Australian Government would provide an additional $75m to the States for welfare housing in 1974-75. These additional funds will enable the States to take advantage of the present situation in the housing industry to increase their welfare housing activities in a substantial degree. 
The 1973 Housing Agreement was drafted in the expectation that there would be a single determination of the amount to be allocated to each State for housing purposes in any year. 
Clause 5 of the Housing Agreement Bill 1974 is to amend clause 10 of the Housing Agreement to permit the determination of supplementary advances during a financial year. As I have already mentioned, a supplementary advance of $75m is proposed in the current year. The total amounts being made available for housing authority purposes and for the Home Builders' Account in each State in the current financial year are as follows. I will give 2 sets of figures in respect of each State under the headings 'Housing Authority' and ' Home Builders ' Account '. 

<graphic href="091131197410304_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

The grand total is $3 10m. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. (Quorum formed) 
-I am pleased to announce that the terminal at the Hobart Airport, which has been regarded as inadequate for many years, is now about to be replaced. In fact, I have made an announcement today to the effect that a contract has been let to the extent of $1,036,000. This work is to go on very soon. The contract will be completed by the end of 1975. There will be no interruption to terminal operations. The terminal will be twice as large as the existing one. There will be separate facilities for both airlines, including entrance lobbies, counters, lounges, baggage collection facilities, bus terminals and the like. The contract has been awarded to a reputable Hobart company, Arthur B. Moore Pty Ltd. 
-If the $150m for housing purposes, which was announced by the 
Prime Minister last night, was spent on the basis of $20,000 being advanced for each house, as honourable members will readily perceive the commencement of 7,500 houses would result. Of course, there could be a lesser amount than that involved, in which event there could be a larger number of loans. It seems to me that that would probably represent the needed input into the building industry to maximise its capacity and to bring it to a desirable state of buoyancy. 
One must not think of this injection of an additional $150m in isolation from the other very significant initiatives already announced by the Treasurer in respect of the amendments to the savings banks regulations, which could have the effect of putting $250m out for these purposes in the short term. In addition to that, there is the range of initiatives being taken in the public sector, which include an extra $75m over and above the Budget announcement for public housing. There is also additional money for defence service homes purposes and an additional $8m for the Queensland Housing Commission. I think the net effect of this whole perspective - 
The honourable member needs more explaining to him than anybody else in the House. I should think it would do him well to listen. The total perspective for this would seem to me to indicate that builders and others associated with the building industry have very good cause for confidence. I know that the building societies must be encouraged to have received the imprimatur from the Government and they too are likely to have a significant degree of success in attracting investment into the permanent building society area. The allocation as announced by the Prime Minister will be expended on new homes, existing homes and extensions for homes. I am personally very pleased that he emphasised the need to include the consideration of housing advances for females as well as for males. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Malak primary and pre-school at Darwin. 
The proposal is for the construction of a facility for 800 primary and 100 pre-school students to serve the subdivision area of Malak in Darwin. The school will have the following major elements of accommodation which are planned to achieve optimum functional relationships: Administrative, library/resources centre, learning areas, multi-purpose areas, pre-school. The building will be constructed of steel columns supporting steel rafters, with non-loadbearing external concrete block walls and coloured steel deck roofing. Lightweight internal partitions will be installed, and carpets and acoustic ceilings will be used to reduce the general noise level. The building will be air conditioned and fire protection systems will be installed. The building design utilises verandahs with wide roof overhangs to reduce glare and the load on the air conditioning system. The site will be landscaped. The estimated cost of the proposd work is $2. 8m at October 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a proposed warehouse and workshop as stage 2 development of the central hospital service complex in the A.CT. 
The proposal is stage 2 of the development proposed to supply eventually the support services needs in a central facility for all present and future hospitals and other health institutions in the Australian Capital Territory. The proposal involves construction of a warehouse, workshop and minor other facilities. Construction will consist of reinforced concrete floors with triangulated steel space frame roof structures, supported in the warehouse on reinforced concrete columns, and in the workshop on perimeter steel columns, external walls will be concrete blockwork, with metal framed windows, metal deck roofing, and metal fascias. Certain areas will be air conditioned with the main warehouse area heated. Reticulated systems such as compressed air, etc., will be provided to the workshop. Roads and car parks will be integrated with the stage 1 works, as will landscaping of the area around the stage 2 proposal. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2.35m at July 1974 prices. I table plans for the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Housing Agreement Bill 1974 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that the House permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
In reply- In the S minutes or so available to me I would like to deal with several of the points which have been made. Primarily we are talking about the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill and the Housing Agreement Bill. The States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill involves the process of facilitating or appropriating $3 10m for State - housing authority purposes. It also involves amending the Housing Agreement. Principally the change concerns the question of making it possible to spend more than 30 per cent of the money for Home Builders Account purposes and removing overtime from the consideration of the means test for Home Builders Account purposes. It is a very laudable proposition. I am pleased that the Opposition has not opposed the propositions involved. In fact, the House will be pleased to know that they were supported by the State Ministers for Housing in their entirety. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  who preceded me in the debate, drew attention to the housing situation in Australia. What he should realise, of course, is that the housing situation is not an isolated situation but is a trend throughout the world. I have just returned from the United States of America and Canada. The amazing feature of the situation in the United States of America is that the year before last there were 2.6 million housing commencements and this year there are expected to be 1.2 million. There has been an enormous downturn in the industry there. Of course, the cost of land and the inflationary situation are such that people are unable to afford the traditional house- the single family house. So there is a doubling of the number of people who are going into apartments or, as they are called there, condominiums. There is a doubling of the number of people who are using transportable homes and the number of people who are using single family homes has been reduced by something like 60 per cent. That is the kind of trend which is in evidence throughout the world. We have been holding out much better than a number of comparable countries. 
It has been difficult to follow the debate because there have been inconsistencies in the attitude adopted by the members of the Opposition. Firstly, there was opposition today by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who is the spokesman for the Opposition on housing, to the acquisition of land at Glebe and Emerald Hill. It is strange that there was no opposition to that proposal when the Bills dealing with it were before the Parliament. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  did not oppose that proposal. He certainly made no contention along the lines that we were proceeding unconstitutionally; yet that is the contention which was made today. The thing which stood out more sharply than anything else today was that the honourable member for Boothby, without much equivocation or ambiguity, was making the point that the Housing Agreement was bad in principle because it provided for concessional loans to low income earners. He thought it was a very bad principle to allocate funds at 4 per cent and 4'A per cent for Home Builders Account purposes. But I was pleased to see our colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who was once Minister for Housing and who obviously knows what this business is about, saying that it is a highly virtuous characteristic. He is delighted that we have been able to do something about it. What a good thing it is, he said, that we have acted because there is this economic situation characteristic of the inflationary trend around the world and if we had not initiated the 1973 Housing Agreement the people who depend on housing commissions for their rented homes or for their home purchases would find themselves faced with an impossible proposition. What the honourable member for Boothby is really advocating is that we eliminate these preferential interest rates. Of course, that would have the effect of forcing up rents. It would result in people being evicted from housing commission homes. In addition, it would make it impossible for people to purchase. Because of the time factor I cannot proceed with the debate any further. I thank honourable members for their contribution to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I have asked my Department to look at this question. The effect of the proposal made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition recently on a television program in connection with my Department would be along these lines: There would be a staff reduction in my Department ranging from 600 to 800 employees. The "works staff would be reduced by 1,800 employees. In addition to that, there would be a curtailment of the consultancies involving the dismissal of some 60 personnel. Of course, there would be a subsequent flow-on of these staff reductions to a number of industries that are related to the Department of Housing and Construction. There would also be a reduction in the number of defence service homes loans made. This reduction would be in the vicinity of 800 loans. That is to say, some 800 ex-servicemen would be deprived of the opportunity to take their defence service homes loans. 
So far as the Commonwealth-State housing agreement is concerned, there would be a reduction in the vicinity of $25m in the allocation of funds to the States. Of course, this could represent a reduction in the order of 1,250 in the number of homes provided. So far as Queensland is concerned, the net effect of the honourable gentleman's proposals that, firstly, there should not have been Budget increases in Government spending and, secondly, over and above that, there should be an 8 per cent across the board curtailment in Government spending, would be that funds made available to Queensland for housing commission purposes would have been $20.6m as against the $30. 9m already made available for this purpose. So honourable gentlemen can see that if the Liberal and Country Parties had been in office at this time and the undertakings of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had been given effect there would have been a massive reduction in the public works program in Australia and highly deleterious effects on the prospects of fulfilling the aspirations of the home-seeking public. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of an Australian radiation laboratory at Yallambie, Victoria. 
The proposal is to provide a faculty to house the Australian Radiation Laboratory, which has the functions of maintaining standards for the precise measurement of ionising radiation and of radioactive substances; procuring and distributing radio-pharmaceuticals; maintaining a surveillance of the levels of radioactivity in the environment; and providing a consultancy service on the protection of people against various radiations. The Laboratory also provides an advisory service on the physical aspects of medical radiology. The building will be a precast reinforced concrete frame structure with external precast infill panels. Windows will be PVC coated steel with double glazing. Roofing will be insulated metal decking supported ' on steel beams and purlins. The building will be air conditioned, with supporting engineering services, road works and car parks. Special attention will be paid to landscaping of the site. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Committee was $3.6m at July 1 974 prices. 
The Committee concluded that the present accommodation of the Australian Radiation Laboratory was unsatisfactory and that it should be relocated in premises specifically designed to meet its particular requirements, that the site selected was suitable, that the building design would specifically cater for the particular requirements of the laboratory and would be capable of future expansion if necessary, that the proposed landscaping would more than compensate for the small number of trees to be removed during construction, that the disposal of low level radioactive liquid waste will follow recognised practices, that the radiation protection standards provided will ensure that the level of any radiation emissions will not be greater than 1 / 100 of the acceptable dose level, and that the work should proceed to construction. 
Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
in reply- The proposed construction of an Australian radiation laboratory at Yallambie, Victoria, has been the subject of continued interest by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie).  I have studied very carefully the papers associated with this matter, including the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, and I think I am able to say in answer to the honourable member for Diamond Valley that any cause for anxiety which he may have had in respect of environmental matters and things of that sort, including danger from radiation, can be removed from his mind and the minds of the people in that region. I believe that every possible consideration has been extended to the welfare of the residents there. I know that the views of progress associations, the local council, the Centre for Environmental Studies and the Institute of Technology have been taken properly into account. I have in front of me a perspective of the proposed project. It is extremely aesthetic. It is a very modern, contemporary style building which has a fine break-up of contours. As the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has said, there are to be 1,000 native shrubs and 1,000 trees planted around it. It seems to me that it is going to represent a desirable development. 
I thought I should mention the other sites that were taken into account, since this question was raised by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. The report I have in front of me says that, in particular, consideration was given to sites at Broadmeadows, Bundoora and Keilor and the Tullamarine and Essendon airport areas as well as to sites at the Watsonia Army Camp. Certain criteria were laid down which had to be met. These concerned the fact that the laboratory needed ready access to Tullamarine airport for the receipt and dispatch of radiopharmaceuticals for medical diagnosis and treatment throughout Australia and that it was also essential to consider its location with respect to the hospitals in Melbourne, which at present are using and which in future will be using the important scientific services that this facility provides. The disadvantages of the other sites mentioned included vibration, high noise levels due to aircraft, remoteness from the hospitals which use the scientific services of the laboratory and the lack of road access and of public transport. Taking all those criteria into account the site at Yallambie proved to be by far the most suitable one. I wanted to say that because it was not just a matter of picking this site because it was owned by the Commonwealth but because in so many respects it had a very significant advantage over the other locations. 
As a final remark I would like to offer this comment: I know that some concern was felt by the residents about possible radioactive effects. I have in front of me the following comment which I think came from the report of the Public Works Committee: 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the design of the proposed laboratory incorporated radiation protection facilities such that an additional safety factor of 100 will be applicable to the dose limits laid down by the NH and MRC and the International Commission on Radiological Protection. The effect of this safety factor is that a person would need to live at the boundary fence 24 hours a day 365 days of the year to receive one-hundredth of the above dose limits. 
So one can say that the possibility of anybody being adversely affected is infinitesimal. This project represents a very great development for Australia. It is a $3.6m project. It is long overdue. I think that in time to come the honourable member for Diamond Valley will be able to establish that there have been no adverse effects suffered by the people whom he so effectively represents in this Parliament 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of an animal health laboratory at Geelong, Victoria. 
The facility is required to provide a complete integrated diagnostic service and as a vaccine testing and production facility in the event of a major exotic disease- for example, foot and mouth disease or other highly virulent virusespenetrating Australia's quarantine barriers. Construction of the major elements will be of reinforced concrete, partly poured in situ and partly pre-cast panels. Other elements will be of brick construction. An insulated pre-cast concrete panel sun screen will be provided over the main building. Epoxy finishes will be employed on internal walls. Highly specialised and sophisticated engineering systems- for example, mechanical, electrical and hydraulic services- will be installed to cope with the stringent design criteria of microbiological security to specified areas. Conventional air conditioning and engineering services will be used in non-hazardous areas. The site will be fully landscaped with an internal road system and car parks. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works was $56m at March 1974 prices. The updated and reappraised estimate presented to the Committee was $67m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the faculty, that the proposal was economically justified, that the 'box within a box' principle of design of the laboratory will ensure microbiological security, that the proposed functions of the laboratory are appropriate, that the precautions taken to prevent the escape of infectious disease viruses have been based on and are an improvement on measures which have been successful in a number of similar laboratories overseas, that after a suitable period the laboratory should be authorised to handle the foot and mouth disease virus prior to an outbreak of the disease in this country, that the site is suitable and that the work should proceed to construction. The Committee also concluded that the construction and establishment of the laboratory should proceed as a matter of urgency. This will be done. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Government is deeply concerned with- the problems in acquiring a home which are faced by persons in disadvantaged circumstances and provides housing assistance in a number of ways for pensioners, disabled persons and those low income earners who are unable to accumulate the normal deposit required to obtain a home. 
Under the 1973 Housing Agreement the Australian Government provides substantial financial assistance to the States for welfare housing and the Agreement specifically provides that the advances may be used for the purpose of providing accommodation for couples of which the main breadwinner is an invalid, and for single invalid persons as well as for families in receipt of low incomes. 
Under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act grants, currently on a 12 for S I basis, are made to charitable, benevolent and other non-profit organisations to assist them in providing residential accommodation for handicapped persons who work in sheltered or open employment. In certain circumstances financial assistance is also made available under the Repatriation Act and the Social Service Act towards the cost of installing in a disabled person's home ramps, handrails or other special aids to daily living. 
Provision is made in the Defence Service Homes Act whereby the Director of Defence Service Homes may, in special circumstances, reduce the deposit below the normal minimum deposit of 5 per cent of purchase money. This power is being exercised to assist eligible widows, seriously incapacitated applicants and other whose family obligations make it difficult for them to accumulate the normal minimum deposit, and to purchase a home on a minimal deposit. ' (3) As the right honourable member is aware the Government proposes to introduce legislation in the current sittings of Parliament to establish an Australian Housing Corporation which will be empowered to cater for homeseekers within the Australian Government's constitutional responsibilities. The provision of housing finance to disabled persons will be one of the matters which will be closely examined by the new Australian Housing Corporation when U is established. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-73 I present the annual report on the administration and operation of that Act for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
-With the indulgence of the Chair I should like to correct an error in my second-reading speech on the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill on 30 October. The amount payable to New South Wales for welfare housing is $96.41 lm, not $46.41 lm, the figure shown in the Hansard report on page 3041. 
The best answer I can give to this question is to recommend that the honourable gentleman look at an account of the proceedings. If he does that he will establish that the Bill was introduced last Wednesday. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members will be aware one of the first steps taken by the Government when it took office in 1972 was to carry out a comprehensive review of the war service homes scheme. The changes which were subsequently made by the Defence Service Homes Act 1973 were the most significant since the enactment of the original War Service Homes Act, which received the royal assent on Christmas day 1918. The Government has carried out a further review of the scheme and this Bill makes provision for a number of additional important changes in the scheme which are designed to improve substantially the borrowing arrangements under the scheme. 
Provision is made in the Bill for an increase in the maximum loan to $ 1 5,000. The Government considers that this is necessary in view of the increase in the cost of acquiring a home since the maximum loan was increased to $12,000 in 1973. 
The Bill provides also for a liberalisation of the eligibility provisions of the Act which will remove the restrictions which, since the inception of the scheme, have prevented single men and widowers with the necessary qualifying service from receiving assistance. A similar restriction relating to the granting of assistance to single and widowed females was removed last year. This amendment will remove all discrimination in the Defence Service Homes Act against single persons, thus giving full recognition to the principle that defence service homes benefits are granted not only as a measure of repatriation, but also as a reward for service. 
The Bill contains limited provisions which will enable the balance of an existing loan to be made available for the acquisition of another property in special circumstances. Since the inception of the scheme in 1919 it has been the intention that an eligible person shall be granted assistance under the scheme in respect of only one home. In conformity with this intention, the Act provides that the Director of Defence Service Homes shall not grant to any one person a loan in respect of more than one property, except with the approval of the Minister. 
Under the existing provisions of the Act, when a purchaser or borrower sells his defence service home and discharges his liability, the amount received must be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund and is not available for allocation towards the building or purchase of another home. While the Act empowers the Minister to approve the grant of assistance for another property, the loan must be provided from the annual appropriation of funds for defence service homes. As a consequence, where a second loan is approved, the funds available for applicants who have not previously been assisted under the scheme are correspondingly reduced. 
Although the policy is being administered more liberally and sympathetically than prior to December 1 972, it has been necessary to be careful and conservative in approving second loans in order not to jeopardise the interests of persons seeking initial loans. 
The Government feels there is a need for more flexible arrangements which will enable the balance of a loan to be transferred in special circumstances without adversely affecting the interests of persons seeking assistance for the first time. Accordingly provision has been made in the Bill for a standing appropriation of moneys in the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent of the balance of the moneys outstanding under a contract of sale or advance under the Act paid to the Director, where, by virtue of an approval by the Minister under section 19b and 20a of the Act, the Director has entered or enters into a further contract of sale or advance with that person in respect of another dwelling-house. 
In conformity with the intention of the scheme, the balance of an existing loan will be made available for the acquisition of another home only in special circumstances. In general, approvals will be limited to cases where the applicant is compelled to move from his present defence service home through circumstances beyond his control. An application for approval must be made before the first home is sold and the amount of assistance will ordinarily not exceed the balance of the existing loan. 
The Bill provides for an extension of the definition of 'holding' in the Act to include a lease on Norfolk Island from Australia or from the Administration of the Territory granted for a term of not less than 28 years. At present the only leasehold interests on Norfolk Island which can be accepted under the Defence Service Homes Act are leases in perpetuity or leases for a term not less than 99 years. This has caused some difficulty as leases on Norfolk Island are normally limited to 28 years. 
The Government has reviewed the interest rate charged on loans made under the Act. The present rate of 3% per cent per annum was fixed in 1946. Since then, the long term bond rate has risen from 3V4 per cent to  9Vi  per cent per annum. The Bill provides for an interest rate of 3% per cent per annum to be charged to a purchaser or borrower in respect of a loan not exceeding $12,000. Where the amount of loan exceeds $12,000, the Bill provides for interest to be charged at the prescribed rate in respect of that part of the loan which exceeds $12,000. Provision is also made for interest to be charged at the prescribed rate in respect of any additional loan made to a purchaser or borrower. 
It is proposed that the prescribed rate shall be 2 per cent below the most favourable rate charged by the Commonwealth Savings Bank on housing loans. The most favourable rate at present is 9V4 per cent and accordingly the Bill provides that the prescribed rate of interest shall be 7V4 per cent per annum or such other rate as may be prescribed. 
In reviewing the interest rate to be charged on defence service homes loans, the Government noted that loans were being made to eligible persons such as widows, totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners, persons living on an age or invalid pension or small superannuation payment who ordinarily could not meet the obligations of home ownership except under the concessional conditions presently provided in the Act. Provision has accordingly been made in the Bill for the granting of a measure of relief in relation to the instalments payable in cases where those instalments include an amount of interest calculated at a rate exceeding 3.7S per cent per annum and the Minister is satisfied it would cause hardship to the purchaser or borrower if he were required to pav the amount of instalments in full. 
The Bill includes a number of other amendments to the Act which are either of an administrative nature or are consequential upon the proposed changes in the interest rate provisions and other measures included in the Bill. 
The defence service homes scheme has now been in operation for more than 55 years. During that time nearly 350,000 persons have been assisted under the scheme to become home owners. Since it took office in December 1972, the Government has liberalised and extended the scope of the scheme and it can look with pride on what it has done to provide homes for service and ex-service personnel under the scheme. The provisions of this Bill will enable the valuable contribution made in past years by the defence service homes scheme to the housing of the Australian people to be maintained and improved upon. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Sanderson high school, Darwin. 
The proposal is the construction of a facility for 1,100 high school pupils to serve the district of Sanderson in Darwin. The high school will be almost identical with Dripstone High School which was examined by the Committee and recommended in 1973. It will comprise the following major elements of accommodation which have been planned to achieve the optimum functional relationships: Administration, library/resource centre, subject areas, science department, art/craft department, theatre, assembly area, lunch area and canteen. The design also allows for the use of the following facilities by the community outside school hours: Art/craft department, library/resources centre. The building will consist of exposed steel rafters, with non load bearing external concrete block walls and lightweight internal partitions. The building will be constructed of steel columns supporting steel rafters, with non load bearing external concrete block walls and coloured steel deck roofing. Lightweight internal partitions will be installed, and carpets and accoustic ceilings will be used to reduce the general noise level. The building will be air conditioned and fire protection systems will be installed. Windows will be tinted to alleviate glare and provided with hoods. The site will be landscaped. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $6.65m at October 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of an orchestral studio and music centre, Brisbane. 
The proposal is to provide a studio office and service complex to house the Queensland Symphony Orchestra and the Music Department of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Queensland Branch, with facilities for high quality sound recording and transmission with limited facilities for television production using mobile equipment. Construction will be of reinforced concrete founded on piles, with metal roofing over a concrete slab. The building will be air conditioned, with carpet and special finishes to provide sound attenuation and to create the special acoustic climate required in certain areas. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2,325,000 at August 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I have heard some comments during the Queensland campaign. It is possible that they are linked with the election. The decision of the Government to make an extra $8m available to the Queensland State housing authority was taken on 11 October, which was well before the date on which the election was announced. In the last 6 weeks $14.5m has been made available to the Queensland Housing Commission, which brings the total for the year to $35.4m. The honourable gentleman asked, in effect, whether that is making allowance for inflation. Let me say that the best that the Liberal-Country Party Government could do in its last year of office was to give $ 1 5.4m. So this Government's contribution is a very significant improvement indeed. The funds recently allocated- the additive of $8m- will provide an extra 900 contracts, 400 of which are in Brisbane. In addition to that, $2.3m will be used to acquire suitable sites where they are needed for urgent housing commission activity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Each State housing authority calculates an economic rental for a dwelling based on amortisation of the capital cost of land and dwelling, with interest, and taking into account other outgoings such as maintenance, municipal rates, insurance, vacancies and defaults, and administration. Economic rents are reviewed periodically to take account of changing circumstances. In some cases the economic rent for a particular dwelling is charged and, in others, some form of averaging of rents is practised; the degree of averaging and the method adopted varies between States. 
However, in all States a rental rebate or rent reduction is available to tenants in necessitous circumstances. All States except South Australia administer a formal rental rebate scheme based largely on the formula laid down in the 1943 Housing Agreement which relates the family income of the tenant to the basic wage of the State concerned, the amount of rebate being the difference between the economic rent of the dwelling and the maximum rent payable in accordance with the formula. The South Australian Housing Trust has a system of rent reductions based on a scheme of graduated rent up to the level of economic rent. Rental rebates or reductions are reviewed regularly in all States. 
The stock of rental dwellings held by each State housing authority at 30 June 1 974 was: 
New South Wales-65,082 Victoria-35,888 Queensland- 18,6 13 South Australia-35,592 Western Australia-22,228 Tasmania- 4,886 
The number of dwellings being purchased from each State housing authority is: 
New South Wales-28,611 Victoria-28,793 Queensland-10,966 South Australia- 7,520 Western Australia- 14,592 Tasmania- 8,093 
The number of applications outstanding with each State housing authority at 30 June 1 974 was: 
New South Wales-35,673 
Victoria- 16,290 Queensland- 7,865 South Australia- 1 5,200 Western Australia- 11,813 Tasmania- 3,222 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Directors' Fees are paid to those Directors of Commonwealth Hostels Limited who are not full-time employees of the Company or of the Australian Government. The fee received by the  Chairman  of Directors is $5, 1 SO per annum and by other Directors, $1,950 per annum. Air fares incurred by the Directors in attending Board Meetings are paid by the Company, and Directors receive Travelling Allowances at the rate of $28 per day. 
Since 30 June 1973 there have been ten Board Meetings. 
Board Meetings are held at hostels and guest houses operated by the Company, or at the Company's Central Office in Sydney. Duration is usually four to five hours. 
The present Directors of Commonwealth Hostels Ltd and their attendances at meetings of the Board since 30 June 1973 arc as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, and I have also referred the report to my Department. 
In general the report contains valuable information on the pricing practices and distributional aspects of this relatively new industry, and on retail pricing in general. I note that the Committee findings state that the retail mark up on carpet tiles is unnecessarily high. Officers of my Department advise that purchases of carpet tiles by the Department are made at rates which are more advantageous than retail prices and, wherever possible, supplies are obtained direct from manufacturers or wholesalers. 
) I did find the report useful. As the amount of information available on retail pricing in Australia is quite limited, it is worthwhile to have gained an insight into the pricing of carpet tiles; this will also assist in building up a fund of information on pricing practices in Australia. 
It is hoped that inquiries by the Joint Committee on Prices, as well as the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal, will continue to increase the Government's understanding on pricing matters. Once we gain more knowledge of the pricing of building materials, it will be possible to develop a consistent, informed policy on the subject. 
The Carpet Tiles Inquiry was the first Inquiry to be held by the Joint Committee on Prices into a specific complaint from the public; the Committee's aims were to gain an insight into the factors influencing prices of carpet tiles, and also to assist in the build up of a fund of knowledge on pricing practices in Australia. I think these objectives have been achieved, and the report highlights the need for careful shopping by buyers. 
The matter of publicising retail pricing arrangements is not one falling within the jurisdiction of my Department. The Trade Practices Act 1974 includes provisions designed to bring about a more competitive climate in retail pricing as well as in other areas. In addition the Trade Practices Commission provided for in that Act is able to inform the public of the kinds of benefits obtainable by comparative shopping. 
The major company mentioned in the report has been contacted by the Department of Manufacturing Industry and advises that it no longer issues recommended prices to retailers unless specifically requested. 
The Committee's report has also been brought to the attention of members of the Textile and Apparel Industry Advisory Panel and the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The level of building approvals is used only as a means to estimate the important indicators of building activity i.e. commencements and completions; 
and (c) Yes. 
For some time, the Australian Government has been concerned with the lack of any real co-ordination in the housing industry. The Government believes that it should seek to achieve a better balance between the supply of and demand for housing and reduce the extent of unnecessary fluctuations in the level of housing activity. In order to achieve this aim, the Government has embarked on a program of Indicative Planning for the housing industry. As part of this program the techniques used in forecasting and current forecasts are being revised and reassessed. Forecasts made available in these circumstances could be misleading. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the number of occupied private dwellings in Australia classified by nature of occupancy, as obtained from the published results of the Census of Population and Housing carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics at 30 June 1971 are shown below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information in the detail requested is not available. However, the published results of the 1971 census of population and housing give details of the employed population 15 years of age and over, born in Australia and born overseas, classified by broad industry groupings, one of which is the construction industry as defined in the Australian Standard Industrial Classification. This group includes persons engaged not only in the construction of buildings but in other construction work, e.g. civil engineering. 
The proportion of the employed population in the construction industry at 30 June 197 1 born overseas was approximately 33 per cent. 
Estimates derived from the results of the population survey carried out by the Bureau of Statistics on a sample basis through Australia each quarter show that this proportion had not changed significantly in May 1974, the time of the most recent survey for which results are available. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision, as announced in the Budget Speech, to renew the scheme of assistance to the States for housing pensioners and to widen eligibility for accommodation provided with this assistance. Under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 which expired on 30 June 1974, non-repayable interest-free grants aggregating $25m were made available to the States at the rate of $5m a year over the period from 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1974 for the provision of self-contained accommodation for single aged pensioners in receipt of supplementary assistance. Building schemes were approved to provide a total of 3,325 units of accommodation of which 3,012 had been completed by 30 June 1974. The new scheme will operate for the period of 3 years from 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1977. A 3-year period has been set because my Department has arranged with the Australian Bureau of Statistics for a survey of the housing situation of aged persons, the results of which should be available in the second half of 1975. Depending on the results of this survey, there may be a need to vary the conditions of the scheme and the suggested period of 3 years is designed to allow us to introduce whatever changes are necessary without undue delay. 
The Bill widens the eligibility conditions to include, in addition to the single age pensioners elegible under the previous scheme, the following classes of single pensioners without dependants who are eligible for supplementary assistance: Invalid pensioners, service pensioners who are permanently unemployable or suffering from tuberculosis, and Class B widow pensioners. A Class B widow pension is payable to a widow at least 50 years of age without a child or to a widow at least 45 years of age whose Class A pension has stopped because she no longer has a dependant child. The Bill provides for annual interest-free non-repayable grants to the States of $ 1 0m, making a total of $30m over the 3-year period. This compares with annual grants of $5m under the previous scheme. The grants will be apportioned among the States in proportion to the numbers of single pensioners in receipt of supplementary assistance in each State. The annual amount payable to each State will be: New South Wales, $4,070,000; Victoria, $2,530,000; Queensland, $1,490,000; South Australia, $930,000; Western Australia, $700,000 and Tasmania, $280,000, making a total of $ 10m. 
The previous scheme did not specify the rents that should be charged for the accommodation provided and, in some States, weekly rents lower than the amount of supplementary assistance are being charged in some instances. As supplementary assistance is paid for the purpose of helping pensioners to meet their rents, the Bill provides that the rent payable for a unit shall not be less than the amount of supplementary assistance. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 
-The honourable gentleman has raised this matter previously in the House and has instanced 14 cases where housing commission homes have been sold and where the mark-up over a period of about 3 months has been in the vicinity of 50 per cent. Clearly this is a matter about which every honourable member would be very gravely concerned. The circumstances that often apply are that fixed term loans are made available at high, variable interest rates which involve refinancing at impossible terms and often people find that the initial interest rate of 9 per cent rises to about 16 per cent. This, of course, involves foreclosure by the mortgagee. 
It is most regrettable that the Australian Government has a limited capacity, it seems, to be effective in situations of this kind. I think that the States have a capacity to be a lot more effective. It is regrettable that they do not examine the opportunities that might be available to them. I have already referred this matter for the consideration of the Attorney-General. There are so many instances these days where people who are anxious to get a home do not take the opportunity to study properly the terms and conditions of the mortgage. Many of them come to understand when it is too late that the conditions that are to apply are onerous and capable of causing them to lose their equity in the property. 
I am hoping that the Australian Government will develop a capacity to help such people, particularly through the proposed Housing Advisory and Information Service about which I intend to make an announcement early in the new year. I think it is sufficient to say at this point that in keeping with our election commitment we intend to establish this service regionally throughout Australia. It will have the capacity to advise home owners in respect of matters of the kind that has been outlined and a variety of matters concerning the Landlord and Tenant Act and the availability of home finance. That announcement will no doubt be welcomed by people who realise the extent to which home buyers are being subjected to the kind of exploitation referred to by the honourable member. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of a six-city consumer survey prepared by PA Management Consultants Pty Ltd entitled 'Finance for New Homes'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report prepared by the Australian Government task force to investigate modern housing techniques. Due to the limited numbers of thus document available I have arranged for reference copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. An interim version of this report was tabled in the Parliament on 25 July 1974. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: 
Construction of a proposed water resources centreDarwin, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is to provide a modern permanent depot as a base of operations for the field force activities of the Water Resources Branch of the Division of Resources Development in the Department of the Northern Territory. The present accommodation is in a motley of unsuitable and sub-standard buildings. Construction will utilise steel framing with insulated shaped asbestos cement panels as an external cladding. Roofing will be galvanised steel decking. Internal partitions will be of a demountable type, with carpeted floors in office areas, acid resistant tiles in laboratories, and ceramic tiles in toilets. Ceilings will be accoustic tiles. The building will be airconditioned, with fire alarm installations throughout the complex and a sprinkler system in the mechanical workshop. Laboratory services, for example compressed air installation, distilled water, liquid petroleum gas reticulation, etc., will be installed, as will a small emergency generating plant to provide stand-by power to certain areas. Other engineering services to be provided include sewerage, water and stormwater drainage connections, with roads, car parks and site landscaping. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $6,200,000 at July 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee An 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of a rehabilitation centre at Townsville. Queensland. 
The proposal is for the establishment of a regional rehabilitation centre to cater for 25 residential and up to 40 day attendants from the north Queensland area. The centre will provide the following facilities: Administration, amenities, medical centre, occupational therapy, vocational counselling, physiotherapy, central change block, residential patients and staff quarters, services area, and an open recreation area. 
Construction will use steel portal frames on reinforced concrete slabs, with steel stud framed internal walls. External cladding will be asbestos cement sheeting to walls and steel deck roofing. The buildings will be partly air conditioned and partly mechanically ventilated. Windows will be aluminium framed with timber shutters for cyclone protection. Internal finishes will suit the requirements of the particular areas. Car parking will be provided and the site will be landscaped to suit the surrounding environment. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Committee was $2.3m at June 1974 prices. 
The Committee concluded that there was a growing and continuing need for a modern centre in the north Queensland region, that the centre should be located at Townsville, that the site selected is suitable, that the proposed design and functions for the centre are appropriate, and that the work should proceed to construction in this instance. The Committee also recommended that every effort should be made to reduce the documentation and tendering period. This will be done and the period will be reduced from 56 weeks to 42 weeks. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
I take this opportunity to speak for a snort time on the Bank (Housing Loans) Bill because it is a significant Bill. I think that the first point to make is that in the face of a downturn in the housing industry the difference between the Labor Government on the one hand and the previous LiberalCountry Party Government on the other hand in the treatment of a trend of this type is that this Government demonstrates a willingness to do something about the situation. Under previous governments, this characteristic has not been in evidence. A very great number of initiatives have been taken. This initiative is but one of a large variety of important initiatives that have been taken. 
One sometimes gets the impression from the Opposition spokesman for housing matters, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  and from some of those who sit behind him that they have a vested interest in discouraging the return to buoyancy in this industry. Obviously, what is desired more than anything else at this stage is a sense of confidence on the part of builders, investors, developers and buyers. But the criers of doom are more interested in scoring politically and not contributing to this requirement in any way. What I want to tell them is that some very great decisions have been taken on the inflationary situation which followed the period in office of our predecessors. The money supply had been greatly expanded. The traditional supply of money, which was running at the level of about 6 per cent, suddenly jumped to about 26 per cent in this period when there was a desperate bid on the part of our predecessors to hold office. Everybody knows the sequel of their administration. It was reflected in the banks and building societies and the various lending institutions associated with the building industry almost trebling the money supply for housing. As a result the price of housing was forced up and the length of time taken to build those houses was greatly extended. 
Any responsible government would have faced the facts of life in that situation and seen the necessity to turn down this demand and to moderate the industry so that prices could be brought back to a reasonable level. It is interesting to see that already there are developing signs of a return to equilibrium. The first thing that has happened is that the upward price trend has been arrested to some degree. The next thing that has happened is that there has been an upturn in the number of approvals. Even for the period from September to October, the number of approvals increased from 7,915 to 8,709. That is a gratifying trend which ought to evince a warm response from the Opposition. But members of the Opposition do not look for encouraging signs of this type. If we look at the value of buildings, jobs approved by class of building and ownership in the Statistician's figures just published for October 1974 it can be observed that whereas the value of these buildings in December was $ 139m it has increased to $ 156.8m. So there are some good trends in evidence. 
I do not want to give the impression here that everything that is to be desired in the housing industry is occurring. The fact of the matter is that there will be unused capacity in the industry in the early months of the calendar year 1975. 1 am not pleased about that. I suppose some people here would contend that the provision of this $150m to the deserving section of the community whose income is less than $150 a week might have come with greater benefit a few months ago. But the feeling in the industry generally is that during 1975 a situation could easily be reached in which the industry could come under pressure once again, that the supply of money will be such that there will not be enough tradesmen to meet the demand and that we may see a return to a shortage of building materials. So there has to be some limit. If it is a fact that the rescue, if you like, of the industry is a little later than it should have been it ought not to cause people to feel that any volume of money can now be dumped into the industry to good advantage. As I have said, by the middle of next year or a little after we could reach a situation - 
-Yes. We could reach a situation where we could see highly deleterious characteristics in the industry. I doubt whether anybody here would have the information, the understanding and the advice about this industry which would enable him to say authoritatively what could be done at this moment, other than what has been done, to assist the industry. It seems to me that the various initiatives that have been taken, which are very considerable in their aggregation in terms of the supply of money, could well prove to be adequate to bring the industry to maximum utilisation. When I say that, I am talking not only about the fact that the liquidity situation is improving in a general way; I am referring also to the various initiatives which have been taken by the Government through the Treasury and the Reserve Bank, such as the amendment to the savings bank regulation reducing from a 60-40 ratio to a 50-50 ratio the proportion of assets which savings banks are required to hold in prescribed forms of investment. Within this new ratio, the proportion of funds to be held in deposits with the Reserve Bank and in Treasury notes has been reduced from 10 per cent to 7.5 per cent. In the next calendar year this will make available, over a  period of time, probably some several hundred million dollars more in housing loans than otherwise would have been available. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his speech some weeks ago, lending by savings banks in this quarter is expected to rise by 50 per cent. That is to say, the volume of lending in the December quarter could be 50 per cent higher than was the case in the preceding quarter. The sum of $150m provided by this legislation in itself is sufficient to finance approximately 8,000 housing loans. So this measure has to be treated seriously. The allocation of at least $3 18m to the States for welfare housing- an increase of $ 1 50m over the amount actually spent in 1973-74- will have a great stimulatory effect. This amount includes some recent additives. I think $8.6m was allocated to Queensland, and an extra $75m was allocated to the States in general. An amount of $50m went to the terminating  building societies, which is a process by which we can get money into the industry very quickly for new housing and for used housing. 
It must be apparent to everybody that many people who get finance for an existing house go off to buy a new house. This has a stimulatory effect There are so many other things to which one could refer which will have a great benefit, but we cannot disparage the importance of the great initiatives taken in the public housing area. I know that the honourable member for Boothby, who sits opposite, like so many of his colleagues is not very enthusiastic about the concessional interest rate. He has said things about this recently, but we feel that the lower income category of people has been neglected for far too long by our predecessors. So we have gone close to doubling the amount of money made available for housing for them, and it is being made available at 4 per cent per annum interest. It is going out to housing commissions at a very low rate and to the  terminating  building societies at 5% per cent. Obviously this is a great sociological initiative which most people in the Parliament on both sides, but regrettably not the honourable member for Boothby, show a great deal of enthusiasm about. 
Then there is the defence service homes initiative which we talked about last night. There has been an expansion of the volume of money available. There has been a widening of the eligibility of people for admittance to the scheme. Single men and single women, serving members of the forces, ancillary groups of people associated with the Comforts Fund, the Salvation Army, and so on, have been brought into  the scheme. That is very important indeed. The Aged Persons Dwellings Bill has been introduced into the Parliament. The effect of that is to double the annual allocation of funds for aged persons homes. We have expanded the range of eligibility in this area to service pensioners, persons suffering from tuberculosis, and class B widows. We have doubled the annual allocation and the rate of expenditure now proposed is $10m for each of the next 3 years. These funds are being made available to the States on a non-repayable grant basis. The money can go out very quickly. In fact the States are acting in anticipation of the supply of that money. They have been advised to do so. This of course is regarded as an effective stimulation of the building industry. 
There have been many other initiatives. For example, the Financial Corporations Bill has been introduced. I have already made some announcements about the fact that we have innovated for the first time in Australia's history a planned approach to the housing industry through the Indicative Planning Council. We have already enlisted the services of one of the country's leading mathematicians, Professor Nevile. We have communicated with the States, with the various sections of the building industry and with the trade unions and we are in the process of establishing, with the aid of all those people, a national group and a group at the level of every State, and in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory. This has been done so that we can get some planning into this industry and prevent the stop-go factors which have characterised it in the past. 
I think honourable gentlemen opposite would know that we have had the second meeting of the National Housing Standards Council. We are seeking to have national housing standards accepted Australia wide. That this will result in considerable economic savings is a foregone conclusion. The Housing Corporation is to be established. It will give the Australian Government an effective role, one which can be described as a versatile role, and which will enable us to make inputs through this industry when they are desirable. 
There is a tendency to disparage and to play down the importance of the tax deductibility system which will mean a great deal to a large number of people. The income earner who receives $6,500 a year and who has a mortgage of $15,000 will receive a saving of approximately $7 a week. This scheme will help the middle income earner particularly. It will have a stimulating effect on the housing industry. This scheme will benefit not only the people who already have housing loans, through the PayAsYouEarn factor which has been injected into the scheme. It will assist also young people who are applying for loans as the PA YE return will be taken into account when lenders are assessing the capacity of prospective borrowers to service housing loans. 
There are so many other aspects with which I could deal. I know that the debate is subject to time limitations because of the number of people who want to speak in it. Therefore, I will not be covering all of those aspects. One thing which can be said is that this allocation of funds, $150m, at very reasonable rates of interest in terms of the circumstances which apply in Australia and around the world today, has arrived at a most fortuitous time. These funds will go through the banking system which has its presence in every part of Australia. I know that there are some who would have liked to see the disbursement of some of these funds through permanent building societies. The terminating societies have been strongly assisted. This Government has virtually underwritten the permanent building societies following the crisis with which they were confronted a short time ago. There is a great deal to indicate that public confidence is being restored to the activities of these organisations. I have little doubt that, in their own right, they will continue to attract the support of the investing public and that they will be able to continue the contribution which they have made over the years to housing in this country. 
The total scenario which we see is to this effect: There will be a downturn or the downturn which is in evidence now will continue for a little while to come. This is regrettable. Many factors have come to bear which are affected by the aggregation of capital in the free market which no Government can every effectively control. This is the kind of happening that we see on the world scene. This Government has taken many initiatives. It will not be very long, in my view, before we see the building industry running at full steam. We regret that there will be some casualties, that is, employees in the industry who will become unemployed. I point out though that the RED scheme and the various supportive programs, including the acceleration of public works and activities of that kind, are likely to minimise the adverse effects which could occur from the economic picture. 
I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on bringing down this Bill which represents probably the first time in the history of the Australian 
Government that there has been an appropriation of money for housing, in effect, for  'Mr and Mrs Everybody'  to go through to people on a large scale. I especially commend the Treasurer for the fact that he is encouraging the banks to make loans available to single women as people in this category have been the subject of neglect for such a long time in respect of housing opportunities. I believe that this initiative will be one of the most effective in restoring the housing industry to the degree of buoyancy which we would all like to see it attain. So, I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the details concerning the Department of Housing and Construction given in the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 41 published in Hansard of 3 October 1974, pages 2233-2239. 
Government Multi-purpose Centres  (Question No. 373) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics relating to job vacancies in the home building industry are not available separately. However, the Department of Labor and Immigration provides some relevant information in the form of statistics on unfilled vacancies collected by the Commonwealth Employment Service. Relevant figures relate to males only and to the building industry as a whole, which is defined for this purpose as comprising the construction and repair of buildings, including erection, site preparation, repairs, maintenance, installation of services, etc. and all 'on site' work in connection with all types of buildings. Relevant figures for the end of each quarter from the March quarter of 1973 to the June quarter of 1 974 (the most recent quarter for which the information is available) are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information regarding the average commencement value of private contract built houses commenced in Capital City Statistical Divisions each quarter is published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The following table shows relevant details for the December quarters of 1 972 and 1 973 and the increase in the intervening period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following recreational facilities are provided in the quest houses operated in Canberra by Commonwelth Hostels Limited on behalf of the Australian Government: 
Ainslie Guest House- billiards/snooker, table tennis, television. 
Acton Hotel- table tennis, television, playground for guests' children. 
Brassey House- television. 
Gowrie Hotel- billiards/snooker, table tennis, television, music room, roof sun decks. 
Havelock House- pool tables, television, music room. 
Lawley House- table tennis, television 
Macquarie Hotel- billiards/snooker, table tennis, television, music room, sun decks. 
Narellan House- billiards/snooker, table tennis, television. 
Each guest house also contains a lounge for general recreation use. Most guest houses have active social committees which are encouraged by the management. 
Commonwealth Hostels Limited does not have a special fund set aside for each guest house, but there is an Amenities Fund, for all the Canberra guest houses as a group, to provide recreational facilities and to assist social clubs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not available from departmental sources. 
in reply- The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has been good enough to leave me less than 3 minutes. I certainly cannot talk about the Glebe lands or the Leyland lands as he would be well aware. What he would be interested to know is that loans by banks and building societies have increased by over 30 per cent in October and although it is apparent that there are some people in this House who have a vested interest in talking doom and gloom, the fact of the matter is that there is an expectation that the housing situation in Australia can improve. 
I have no apologies to make about the honourable gentleman's reference to so-called leaks because these matters have been the subject of meetings that are of a public nature between myself and the Housing Ministers of the various States. It is a matter that evolves over a period of time and they have agreed to amounts that have been allocated and all are aware of it. Of course, it is very understandable that people have prior knowledge as to the intentions of the Government. We are debating a very significant Bill. It doubles the annual allocation of money for the purposes set out in that Bill. That cannot be treated lightly. It widens the range of eligibility to invalid pensioners, Service pensioners who are permanently unemployable or suffering from tuberculosis and class B widow pensioners. 
-It doubles the annual rate. It supplements amounts being made available for other purposes associated with the housing of aged people which the honourable gentleman did not find the time to mention. I refer, of course, to the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Bill, the expenditure for which is increased from $22.4m to $30.8m, the Aged Persons Hostels Bill, the expenditure for which has been increased from $3. 9m to $15m and this Bill under which the expenditure has been increased from $5m to $10m. In other words, we have brought expenditure for these purposes up to $55. 8m this year. It is an extremely substantial amount of money which can, of course, be added to the money that we spent under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. I know that there is general approval for this legislation. Time will not permit me to speak any further on it. I commend its provisions to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Pursuant to section 50B (3) of the Defence Service Homes Act 1 9 1 8- 1 973 I present the annual report of the Director of Defence Service Homes for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. The interim version of the report was tabled in the House on 1 8 September 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report of the Australian Government Department of Housing and Construction 1973-74. 
For the information of honourable members I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to India, Pakistan and Iran. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the PublicWorks Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of proposed central laboratory facilities, Casuarina, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is to provide a comprehensive laboratory service for the Northern Territory health services and, by transfer of the Pathology Department from the Casuarina Hospital to the proposed laboratory building, to allow for expansion of the outpatients services area of the Hospital. Construction will be of 6 storeys of reinforced concrete frame with external cladding of precast spandrel panels. Roofing will be vinyl bonded metal deck. Internal walls will be steel framed sheeted with plasterboard. Floor finishes will suit the requirements of the various areas. Ceilings will be of acoustic tiles and plasterboard. 
The building, generally, will be air conditioned with mechanical ventilation to areas where air cannot be recirculated. Some reticulated gaseous systems will be piped from the main ward block and others from cylinder manifolds in the plant room. Other engineering services to be supplied include sewerage, water and storm water drainage, fire protection systems and emergency power supply. Existing roads will be extended to the building entrances and adjacent car park. The site is to be landscaped. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7.4m at August 1974 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the PublicWorks Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Australian Government Centre at Parramatta, N.S. W. 
The proposal is for the construction of a modern office complex with a view to accommodating 2,500 Australian Government office users in the first phase and with capacity for ultimate development to accommodate between 4,500 and 6,000 officers. The ultimate development will make provision for civic, community and staff amenity facilities and for retail purposes. The office accommodation will be concrete framed structures designed so as to provide flexible general purpose office areas for Australian Government usage. The complex will be designed for minimum maintenance with floors being carpeted in office areas. Acoustic treatment will be provided to reduce the general noise level. 
The buildings will be air conditioned and fire protection will be installed. The estimated cost of the proposed work at December 1 974 prices is as follows: Stage 1, to provide accommodation for 2,500 officers, plus car park, plus 40 per cent of the community /retail facilities- $21 m. The total cost of the development is as follows: Alternative 1, for 4,500 officers, $36m; alternative 2, for 5,000 officers, $38m; alternative 3, for 6,000 officers, $43m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have recently provided the honourable member with statistics on a State by State basis as to the total numbers of applications withdrawn or refused during the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974. The statistics provided indicated that 26.83 per cent of the total number of applications received during that period were withdrawn or refused. During the preceding period from the inception of the Act in 1919upto31 December 1972 40.78 per cent of applications received were withdrawn or refused. No statistics are kept showing the reasons why applications for loans under the Defence Service Homes Act are withdrawn and the compilation of the details requested by the honourable member would require an examination of several thousand individual case files. This would involve a considerable expenditure of administrative time which I do not feel is justified in the present circumstances. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes; and my Department has had discussions with the Albury/Wodonga Development Corporation. 
It is too early to reach a firm conclusion on the requirements of the Albury/Wodonga area or other proposed growth centres for hostel accommodation for newly arrived public servants. Detailed consideration willbe given to this matter, which is pan of the general issue of housing in approved growth centres, at the appropriate time and in collaboration with appropriate Departments and Authorities. 
Housing: Meetings between Commonwealth and State Ministers and Departments (Question No. 459) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes (b) Yes. 
(a) 12. 
Canberra, 15.1.73 Australian Government and Western Australia. 
Sydney, 8.2.73 Australian Government and New South Wales. 
Sydney, 9.2.73 Australian Government and Queensland. 
Perth, 15.2.73 Australian Government and Western Australia. 
Sydney, 19.2.73 Australian Government and Tasmania. 
Adelaide, 22.2.73 Australian Government and South Australia. 
Melbourne, 23.2.73 Australian Government and Victoria. 
Canberra, 23.3.73 Australian Government and All States. 
Adelaide, 5.4.73 Australian Government and All States. 
Canberra, 13.6.73 Australian Government and All States. 
Port Hedland, 13.6.74 Australian Government and All States. 
Canberra (b) 2, 11.10.74 Australian Government and All States. 
Canberra, 30.3.73 Australian Government and All States 
Melbourne, 10.7.74 Australian Government and All States. 
and (4) I and my Department constantly seek advice from organisations representing sections of the building and construction industry, including financial institutions that lend for housing. This advice is additional to the information we received from regular surveys of the housing industry. 
Industry organisations have provided seven submissions on the general state of the housing industry since 1 January 1974. Departmental officers have met with representatives of financial institutions six times since1 January 1974 to advise on and discuss trends in housing finance. 
The dates of such meetings and the organisation involved apart from my own Department were: 13.2.74 Master Builders Federation, Housing Industry Association, Australian Timber Producers Council and The Treasury. 1.S.74 Master Builders Federation, Housing Industry Asssociation, Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia and The Treasury. 1.5.74 Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies and The Treasury. 12.6.74 Master Builders Federation, Housing Industry Association, Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia and The Treasury. 12.6.74 Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies and The Treasury. 15.8.74 Master Builders Federation, Housing Industry Association, Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia and The Treasury. 15.8.74 Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies and The Treasury. 16.9.74 Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies and The Treasury, The Reserve Bank. 27.9.74 Master Builders Federation, Housing Industry Association, National Building and Construction Council, Building Workers Industrial Union and The Treasury. 
10.74 Representatives of various Savings Banks, The Treasury and the Reserve Bank. 
4. 1 1 .74 Building Workers Industrial Union. 27.1 1.74 Master Builders Federation, Housing Industry Association, Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia and The Treasury. 27.1 1.74 Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies and The Treasury. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has informed me that the Victorian Public Works Department, acting on behalf of the Albury-Wodonga ( Victoria ) Corporation, is undertaking the purchase of land in Wodonga for a range of urban development purposes associated with the Albury-Wodonga Growth Complex. Agreement has been reached with landowners for the purchase of 1,070 acres at a total cost of $4,462,350. This amount includes a component for landowners expenses, in accordance with provisions of the Victorian Lands Compensation Act 1958-1973. 
Funds for the purchase of land in connection with the development of Albury-Wodonga were made available in the Governments of New South Wales and Victoria under the Albury-Wodonga Development ( Financial Assistance ) Act 1973, which is administered by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
Yes. 
In answer to a question without notice on 10 July I stated that an investigation into these purchases had been commenced with the co-operation of the Victorian Government. My observation on the prices paid was not made in relation to the options open to the Housing Commission, or to land purchased in Wodonga: as Hansard shows, it was made in the light of the delay by the Victorian Government in co-operating with the Australian Government in attacking the general problem of high land prices. 
Yes. 
The Housing Commission regards the land purchased at Melton and Sunbury as potentially high quality residential land. However, it should be pointed out that at the time of purchase neither area was zoned for urban purposes. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has informed me that the character of land purchased in Wodonga, the purposes for which the land is being purchased and locational circumstances preclude simple comparisons with land purchased by the Victorian Government in Melton and Sunbury. The prices paid for land in Wodonga reflect the following influences: land in Wodonga is to be purchased for u range of urban development purposes: of the 1,070 acres purchased to date in Wodonga. 1.(146 acres are currently zoned for other than rural uses and in two instances landowners had current development applications before Council; the subject land is largely within an extended town boundary proposed by the Wodonga Council in July 1972. The proposal to formalise this new boundary has not been acted upon by the Victorian Government. However. Council  proposal had a marked influence on the Wodonga land market as a whole and escalated individual valuations within that boundary. 
No. 
No. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Discussions at officer level have been held between officers of the Departments of the Treasury and Housing and Construction and representatives of the permanent building societies and savings banks. 
It is understood that a scheme for the deferment of housing loan interest through this adjustment of payments on a housing loan in relation to the rising income of the borrower is already in operation by some permanent building societies. Formal advice is till awaited on the attitude of the savings banks to this kind of arrangement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no simple unique and spectacular step which is going to reduce housing costs and anyone who claims that there is knows nothing about the housing industry and its complexity. Costs will be contained and hopefully reduced by a number of measures, each of which will contribute and interact with other factors. Some of the measures must be financial, some regulatory, some technological. This interaction has been examined in depth by the Division of Building Research of the C.S.I.R.O. and a number of reports have been published. One step which would help to contain housing costs would be the adoption of uniform housing standards throughout the nation. We have set up an Adivsory Council on Housing Standards and a Task Force within our Department to service the Council. The aim is to produce a compendium of Housing Standards which will serve as a model for regulatory authorities throughout Australia. 
Another step is to encourage and facilitate innovation in housing. To this end we set up a Task Force on Modern Housing Techniques under the Chairmanship of  Mr R.  Burkitt. This Task Force has presented its report and we are in the process of implementing its recommendations. We have also recently established the Australian Housing Research Council as a research association between the housing authorities of the different States and the Australian Government to provide finance to enable the authorities to extend their research and development activities in matters of technology and in social concern. 
Defence Service Homes Scheme 
One of the special features of the provision of homes under the Defence Service Homes Scheme is the purchase and development of land in broad acres for group housing estates. After subdivision and the provision of roads and other services, the land is used for group building or made available to eligible persons for the erection of individual homes to their own designs. The land provided in this way is made available to eligible persons at capital costs plus interest at the prescribed rate from the date the land was acquired. 
These concessional arrangments, the absence of the land developer's usual profit and the appreciation in value after development, make it possible for applicants to obtain individual lots at prices considerably lower than those of comparable allotments purchased on the open market. This saving has assisted many eligible persons to acquire a home which otherwise would have been beyond their financial reach. 
Upon the Labor Government taking office in December 1972, special action was taken to increase the stock of land to meet the demand for land and homes under the Defence Service Homes group housing scheme. Land holdings, which at 30 June 1972 were estimated as sufficient to yield 4,992 building lots, are now sufficient to yield approximately 1 1,500 lots. In all there are now more than 40 Defence Service Homes Estates in various stages of development. 
In addition to the lower land cost, reductions are effected ' by the practice of calling tenders and letting contracts for the construction of groups of dwellings within Defence Service Homes estates, thereby obtaining the benefits of economies of scale. There has been a big increase in applications for the allocation of a group home or an allotment of land in a Defence Service Homes estate and this reflects the significance of the cost reductions that are being achieved through the group housing program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department has undertaken no studies to determine the increase in the unit labour cost involved in housing construction in the various capital cities. 
) Not applicable. See answer to ( 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No official statistics are available on average levels of rentals or increases in average rentals of flats in capital cities. However, officers of the Department of Housing and Construction, in the course of conducting quarterly investigations into many aspects of the home building and housing industry, make inquiries each quarter with field contacts on general trends in rentals for houses and two-bedroom flats in each State. These inquiries relate to increases in rentals for representative dwellings leased by estate agent informants. The surveys are not undertaken on the basis of a scientifically-designed sample but are intended to provide a reliable guide to rental housing market conditions. Accordingly, such figures as are available should be taken as indicating orders of magnitude rather than accurate statistical data. Not only are the estimates of average rental increases in each capital city in the nature of approximations only but comparisons of figures for individual cities should not be taken as providing the precise extent of differentials in increases between cities. No information on increases in rentals for one-bedroom flats is collected by the Department 
Information received by the Department suggests that approximate increases in 1973 in average rentals of two bedroom flats in capital cities were: 
Sydney- 7 percent 
Melbourne- 1 5 per cent 
Brisbane- 10 percent 
Adelaide- 15 percent 
Penh- 10 percent 
Hobart- 15 percent 
Canberra- 5 per cent 
The Statistician has advised that during 1973 the quarterly percentage increases in the Consumer Price Index component item 'Rents of Privately Owned Flats', for the six State capital cities, were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
) Not applicable. See answer to1 . 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number and value of loans approved for housing by permanent building societies in 1 972-73 and 1 973-74 are shown in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Housing and Construction received a formal submission from  Mr Stephen  Beach concerning his 'Bimark Proposal' in November 1973.  Mr Beach  had also contacted the former Department of Works before its amalgamation with the former Department of Housing. I have received no formal submission from  Mr Beach,  although correspondence between the Treasurer,  Mr Crean.  and  Mr Beach  in June and July 1974 was brought to my attention by  Mr Crean. 
In his submission to my Department,  Mr Beach  defines his scheme in this way: 'It is proposed that a service he offered, to act as intermediary between the building industry and Government via a Research Institution, to establish liaison and reliable market projections for their mutual benefit. ' 

 Mr Beach requested the Department to act as both sponsor and basic data processor for the Bimark scheme and suggested that he be employed as a consultant to the Department for this purpose. I, together with my Department, have regular contact with organisations representing the building industry and with a number of individual builders and other persons associated with the industry. In this way effective communication is maintained between Government and the building industry. From such contact, from research undertaken within the Department and from research undertaken by non-Government sources the Government is able to keep abreast of current developments within the industry and to make judgments on future trends within the industry. These views are communicated to industry by a number of channels. 
In addition, my Department is currently arranging the establishment of an indicative planning council which will prepare projections of housing activity using techniques in which officers of the Department have considerable experience and also involving extensive collaboration with. the building industry and with representatives of other Government bodies. At the p. -em time my Department does not feel that the principles of the Bimark scheme would serve us a useful addition to the work currently being undertaken or being planned by the Department. However, it will keep  Mr Beach's  proposition in mind and will call on his services if the need arises. For instance,  Mr Beach  was employed as a Consultant by the Department for a three-week period recently to assist officers with an investigation into nonresidential building activity. 
3 ) See answer to question 2 
See answer to question 2. 
(a) Industry Resources Division, (b) Yes. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet: Publications (Question No. 1572) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 1 1 ) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581, published in House of Representatives Hansard of 4 December 1974, page 4590. 
Department for the Environment and Conservation: Publications (Question No. 1597) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of press releases issued by the Minister are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery from the Department and mailed according to mailing lists in the Department. 
There is a list of people who regularly receive copies of the Minister's press statements and this list is constantly changed. Copies of press statements are also distributed in response to people calling in, or writing in, on a casual basis. Broadly, however, statements are issued to all members and senators, media organisations, Government Departments, political party organisations, industry organisations, libraries and individuals from whom requests are received. 
3 ) The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the particular subject matter of the statement, but in general, statements are sent regularly to about 500 addressees including members of Parliament and Government Departments. 
Part of the cost of producing and distributing press releases for the Minister is included in costs relating to Departmental salaries and administration. However, the costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
5 ) One plus limited involvement of several others. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
New South Wales Region- 
to (4) Nil. 
The Regional Headquarters of the Department in New South Wales located in the Tower Building, Australia Square comes under the control of the Australia Square management's building security services whose stuff arc trained to assist with any evacuations required. 
New procedures involving the appointment of fire wardens are presently being prepared by the Region in order to meet any emergency which may occur. 
Operational Headquarters, Melbourne- 
to (4) No exercises in Civil Defence preparedness have been carried out at Operational Headquarters. Melbourne, during the past eighteen months. 
In mid-1974 a comprehensive plan was being developed for the appointment in this office of floor wardens, deputies and assistants to cope with sudden emergencies such as fire. 
At that time, however, it appeared likely that we would be vacating our present premises and no further action regarding civil defence exercises was taken at that stage. 
As a move from our present premises no longer appears imminent, planning regarding the form and nature of evacuation exercises is again being undertaken 
Victoria/Tasmania Region- (1)19 March 1974; 22 October 1974. 
Queensland Region- 
1 ) to (4) Details are set out in the following table: 
All employees. 
800. 
The purpose of these exercises was to familiarise and instruct all personnel in the correct procedures to be taken in the case of an emergency. The exercises also tested the emergency evacuation organisation and procedures and the special warning equipment under simulated conditions. 
It is agreed that this area is one in which the Australian Government can give a lead to other employers. The results of these exercises were watched by several outside observers. Requests have since been received for advice on Departmental experience in these matters. 
NB- (a) The above figures do not include staff of other Departments located in Australia House or Australian Government Centre. 
Partial evacuations were also carried out in Australia House on 27.9.1973 and 16.10.1973 but did not include staff from this Department 
The total evacuation of Australia House, Brisbane, is normally carried out during fire prevention week in conjunction with the Fire Brigade with the intent that it would set an example to the community generally. 
South Australian Region- 
7 November 1973. 
All officers and employees. 
120 personnel. 
The purpose of the exercise was to assess whether fire exits were adequate and whether the proposed evacuation plan was effective before formal introduction. The answer in both cases was affirmative. 
This Department is in a position to take the initiative in the introduction of evacuation procedures and related exercises in office buildings. 
Note- The above information is in relation to the South Australian Region and refers only to the Housing Division. Security House, North Terrace, Adelaide. In so far us the Construction sector is concerned no exercises have been undertaken. However, emergency evacuation procedure has been introduced and Block and Floor Wardens, Monitors and Runners have been appointed to each of the four floors occupied in Da Costa Building. 
West Australian Region- 
1 ) Two occasions (dates unknown ) 
Not known. 
50 personnel on each occasion. 
The purpose was to assess the operation of emergency evacuation procedures during simulated fire outbreaks. 
5 ) No Regional comment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average sale price of single residential building sites in six capital cities is given in the table below. No suitable information is available for Perth. Statistics for Brisbane. Adelaide and Hobart were obtained from the ValuerGeneral's Department in each State and relate to the quarters when the sales were registered. Not all transactions are registered in the quarter in which they occurred; for instance, a sale made in the December quarter of 1973 may only be registered in the March quarter of 1 974. Sydney and Melbourne data are based on small samples of residential land sales and relate to the period in which sales occurred: the sample survey was undertaken by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pry Ltd. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Commonwealth Statistician advises that Home ownership' is the title given to the sub-group combination of three items contained in the Housing Group of the Consumer Price Index, namely ' House price' ' Local government rates and charges': and 'Repairs and maintenance'. These three important elements in the cost of home ownership are measured for the index by applying to a basic expenditure weight for each item the percentage movement shown by an index of price change for that item. For 'house price' the index measures change in the purchase price of new houses. For 'repairs and maintenance' it measures changes in retail prices of paints, paint brushes, other representative materials and costs of tradesmen's labour used in the repair and maintenance of houses. A detailed description of the 'Housing' group, together with other material concerning the Consumer Price Index, is contained in the annual Labour Report and in the supplement to the March quarter 1974 bulletin. This material will be made available to the honourable member. 
The Department of Housing and Construction has been endeavouring for some time to build up a series of land price statistics. The Department of Urban and Regional Development is also working in close collaboration with my Department on this matter. However, it is extremely difficult to build up a reliable statistical series of land price statistics for many reasons including availability and consistency of data, and the very heterogeneous nature of residential sites. 
Although no statistical series has as yet been constructed, some comprehensive information has been collected by my Department on land price movements. 
The table below shows movements in land prices in the years for which data are available. Statistics for Brisbane. Adelaide and Hobart are obtained from the ValuerGeneral 's Department in each State and although they cover all sales transactions, not all transactions are included in the quarter in which they occurred. Sydney and Melbourne data are based on a small sample of residential' land sales and relate to the period in which sales occurred. The survey is undertaken by Philip Shrapnel &amp; Co. Pty Limited. No reliable information is as yet available for land price movements in Perth. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) Grants for research made by the Department of Housing and Construction in the last 3 years are set out below: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The measures taken by the Government to stimulate the housing industry are in the process of taking effect. It has been gratifying to note the significant upturn in building approvals. I think the increase in December over November reached just on 9 per cent or a seasonably adjusted figure of 18.9 per cent. I think the more gratifying fact is that despite the downturn, which was the product of events which took place a long time before the ALP took office, the accomplishment in housing under the first 2 years of Labor is notably superior to that of our predecessors under each of the important headings. That statement applies to the number of housing approvals in Labor's 2 years as against the last 2 years under the LiberalCountry Party Government, the number of commencements, the number of loans and in fact every figure that one likes to think of. Without going into details it is important to mention completions. In that respect the Liberal record in its last 2 years was 287 042 houses completed. Labor achieved completions totalling 302 877. 
Many initiatives have been taken, the benefits of which are yet to manifest themselves. Already we are seeing the benefit of increased expenditure under the public housing program. Honourable gentlemen might be interested to know that in the last year of Liberal administration the Australian Government, which was known by a different name in those days, was spending $169m on public housing. This Government has lifted the figure to $345m. There has been a considerable increase in the output of public houses in recent times. So I say to the honourable gentleman that it seems that the housing industry is heading into a buoyant area in the near future. It is hoped that the Australian Government will be effective in restraining the degree of buoyancy so we do not return to an overdemanding situation which contributed to our problems last year. 
I listened with interest to the honourable gentleman who proceeded me. 
-I rarely make a point of popularising an opponent's name unnecessarily. In respect of most of the things that the honourable member said I find myself in considerable agreement. In saying this I feel I am right in contending that this also is the view of my colleagues who preceded me- the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  who introduced this Bill into the House and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Of course the Government acknowledges the need for democratic processes. So much happened to the people of Dai-win that if one wanted to deal s fatal blow it would be to take awayihe-rser.se of citizenship and their right to participation and involvement. We believe that there is a basic need for the most intensive relating experience that it is possible to contrive in a situation of this kind. Of course the Minister has made provision for that kind of process in this Bill, which I support. 
The Minister is deserving of the tributes that have been paid to him from both sides of the House. He is a man who has risen to the occasion, and I believe that his determination to resist these overtures to delay this measure will restore the confidence of the people of Darwin who realise the necessity of the Reconstruction Commission getting on with the job with all the legality that it requires. Sometimes in crisis situations there has to be some oiling of the machines and operations have to be streamlined. Of course that is the role of the Commission. As the honourable member who preceded me contended, that should be the case. He does not want a bumbling bureaucratic organisation that will delay and frustrate. I agree with him and that is precisely the kind of reason that motivated the establishment of this new Reconstruction Commission. 
A lot of new things will have to be done in Darwin; there is a lot wrong with Darwin. Honourable members who have visited Darwin with the frequency of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the Minister for the Northern Territory and I would readily know that it has grown over the years. While it has a great deal to commend it and so many of its characteristics appeal to the people who live in Darwin, there are so many better things that can be done now that this opportunity has presented itself following cyclone Tracy. There is the whole question of re-arranging and replanning. There is the question of land use. We know that it is the view of many people that the locations of the airport and the defence establishments leave a lot to be desired. If a better city is wanted the opportunity to re-arrange things should be taken. Of course that can bring about the need to rearrange existing residential development. If these things are to be done, it is important that very effective weapons are at one's disposal to overcome the bureaucratic processes that often contribute to delaying matters of this kind. I say unequivocally that my concern in Darwin, as primary as the responsibilities I have in regard to housing and reconstruction matters, is to ensure that democratic rather than demagogic processes come to bear. I for one, together with the Minister who introduced the Bill, will be watching these processes emerge. 
In the 7 weeks since the devastation of Darwin by one of the most severe cyclones in recorded history the Government has demonstrated its capacity to effectively help the victims and to ensure that they suffer as little as possible from the consequences of this tragedy. This Bill is the outcome of some of the major decisions taken in this short period of time. Its introduction in the first autumn sitting is indicative of the top priority the Government places on the reconstruction of Darwin, This Bill is the expression of the Government's firm commitment to the people of Darwin, which is given without any equivocation or ambiguity. The Government intends that Darwin be rebuilt as quickly as possible. In order to both co-ordinate and direct this mammoth task, it is necessary to create this flexible, temporary organisation capable of translating the wishes and needs of the residents into the concrete form of a new, better city. Urgency is the keynote of the reconstruction program, for without a rapid regrowth many of the former residents in both business, the work force and in the Public Service will continue to suffer both financially and emotionally. 
The city of Darwin, when all is said and done, was home to almost 50 000 Australians. The Government's task is to facilitate the return to Darwin of these people, and in this process to make it a safer and more attractive city. This sense of urgency, implicit in the reconstruction program, has been notable in the action taken so far. The magnitude of the task of evacuating the city, clearing debris and restoring emergency services appeared staggering when I visited the city with the Minister for the Northern Territory shortly after the cyclone. The damage caused by cyclone Tracy defied the imagination. The forces unleashed by the cyclone were immense. Cars were bowled along streets, whole houses were lifted and turned upside down, roofing nails were imbedded inches into tree trunks and steel lighting poles were left twisted and bent. Houses were flattened, furniture and other contents scattered for miles and no building materials or methods could be said to have stood up to the battering better than any other. Timber, fibro, brick, precast concrete and even steel framed buildings were smashed and twisted. 
According to the experts, chance played a big part in the isolated examples of structures surviving amid the ruins of those surrounding them, the exceptions being when totally engineered structures were involved. Even these were not proof against flying debris. A damage survey found that government buildings such as schools, police stations, post offices and the offices of the various government departments would not require major reconstruction. All of these were engineered structures. But of 7032 houses surveyed, 53 per cent were write-offs and only 5.8 per cent were largely intact. The remainder were damaged, mostly badly. 
The problems involve in rebuilding Darwin were complicated by many factors. There was the need to evolve a new building code to take into account higher wind velocities- 1 50 miles per hour plus- the desirability of providing a better urban environment, the uncertainties about the population to be catered for, the difficulties of land ownership and many others. But the prime consideration had to be the sociological problems of re-housing a population which had suffered severe shock and which was now scattered around Australia. 
However, faced with a challenge more immense than anything in our peacetime history, the work of restoration has been amazing. The rate of opening up of roads, re-establishment of services, roofing of houses and general clean-up has far exceeded expectations. For this magnificent effort we can well be proud of the work carried out by the Darwin citizens, by the officers and men of the Royal Australian Navy, the Royal Australian Air Force, and the Australian Army, by Australian, State and local government authorities, by volunteers from outside Darwin and by private contractors. I want to gve special thanks to the union volunteers who gave up their annual leave and made a substantial contribution to the restoration program. I would also express my deep appreciation to the men and women of my Department who worked untiringly to meet the deadlines set by the emergency Cabinet meeting. They proved in a tangible way their humanity towards their fellow Australians. 
This program covered work from 25 December to 29 January and included the restoration of full generating capacity of the power station. From 1 January the generating capacity exceeded demand. Where emergency power was required, this was provided from approximately 540 sets supplied from all over Australia. When water supply failed because of power distribution problems, mobile generators were used to restore water to most suburbs 3 days after the cyclone. My Department made recommendations on program targets and these were agreed to by Cabinet. The target dates set for clearing main roads and clearing building allotments were beaten primarily because of assistance from the Defence Services. Cabinet also agreed that 1000 houses be made weatherproof. By 29 January almost 1600 houses had been reroofed. Commonwealth Hostels Ltd, also part of my responsibility, played a major role in accommodating and feeding many of the homeless in Darwin. In addition to the Esplanade, Ross Smith and Arafura Hostels, Commonwealth Hostels took over the management of several motels, school emergency centres and now will be managing the accommodation in the liner 'Patris', nor was the company's action confined to Darwin. A total 5,079 evacuees were accommodated in Commonwealth Hostels throughout Australia. As we know selfless generosity of individuals and welfare organisations all over Australia was overwhelming. 
From this brief outline it is obvious that the Government's action was prompt and effective. While the emergency restoration went ahead, detailed investigations were made and long-term proposals drawn up of a provisional nature, it is true. The first released was the report of the Cities Commission, 'Planning Guidelines for Future Darwin'. This report frankly discussed some of the possible planning strategies for redevelopment. Many of these strategies are highly contentious, and because of this 10 000 copies of the report are being circulated in order that the citizens of Darwin can participate in deciding the future of their city. The opportunity for the local population to particpate in the planning and decision making of the Commission is protected in this Bill by both clause 18 and by Part VII. Clause 18 provides for a Commission consisting of 7 members, one of whom is nominated by the Legislative Assembly for the Territory, another by the corporation of the city of Darwin. 
The honourable member for Wakefield spoke about the need to consult with the Legislative Assembly. But I suppose the question concerns the means by which this should be done. I am sure the honourable gentleman acknowledges the processes of delegated authority. When it is all said and done, we have only one delegate to the United Nations representing the whole of Australia, so I suppose it is easy to have an effective arrangement whereby a member from the Legislative Assembly and, indeed, a member from the City of Darwin Corporation- the municipal authority-can sit on and speak at the Commission, representing not just himself but the governmental group or the instrumentality to which he belongs. There are loads of precedents for that kind of process. I doubt whether there is any need for apology on the part of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory for his incorporation of that well-established process in this Bill. We are looking for the streamlined arrangements that the honourable gentleman talked about. No doubt the Darwin City Corporation and the Legislative Assembly will thrash our from time to time their attitude in a corporate sense and will formulate their views and, as problems evolve from time to time, they will be effectively represented in the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. I add to that the important consideration, from the standpoint of community participation, that one of the most significant documents produced contains the basic proposals- that is what they are- concerning the re-development of Darwin. This publication of the Cities Commission is being produced in massive numbers. Its first edition is 10 000 copies. Doubtless, if more are needed they will be made available. 
These copies are being distributed virtually in a catalystic form. We are not dropping these pamphlets from great heights on subordinate people in Darwin. We are saying to them: 'Here is something which will encourage and stimulate your thinking and your conceptual approach to what your city ought to be like in the future'. After that, many committees will be established, as is set out and provided for in clause 5 1 of this legislation- some of them by the Reconstruction Commission- to enable the voice of the people to ring out effectively in the decision-taking corridors and places of power, if you like. I think the situation required that sort of emphasis. 
A Darwin Citizens Council composed of a representative group of 20 members also is to be formed. Part VII of the Bill outlines the role of this Council but it can be briefly summarised as giving advice to the Commission in relation to any matter likely to affect the interests of residents. In addition, this body will play an important role in keeping the citizens advised of the activities of the Commission. The Council's views will be heeded, because of the safeguard of representation within the Commission. With this commitment to citizen participation it is evident the Government is not intending to impose Canberrabased solutions on the city of Darwin; rather we are seeking to establish a co-operative attitude between all levels of government and the people. My Department intends to play as significant a role during the reconstruction program as it did during the emergency restoration. Shortly after the cyclone, I assembled a special group of experts in various fields from within the Department and from private practice. These experts were sent to Darwin to examine the impact of the cyclone on design, building planning and landscape. Incidentally, the effect of cyclone Tracy on the buildings and structures in Darwin can be best appreciated when one realises that the wind pressure is directly related to the square of the velocity. For example, the pressure from a wind of 290 kilometers or 180 mph is 9 times that of 96 kilometres or 60 mph. Under these forces the magnitude of devastation can be better understood. This special study group also prepared a report which put several well-documented recommendations on the rebuilding program to the Interim Reconstruction Commission. A particularly important contribution by this group was the preparation of a draft building code for the Darwin area. It recommends that the Australian Model Uniform Building Code be adopted, with the inclusion of special engineering provisions, so that housing and major community facilities can be made safer. The recommended draft code specifies that a design wind velocity of 60 metres per secondabout 160 mph- be adopted for housing, with some variations for degree of exposure. 
The draft code also isolates specific parts of buildings or construction techniques which should be closely supervised and recommends that all structures be designed by a chartered structural engineer. The cost of that can be limited by 'deemed to comply' clauses in the code. The most important recommendation in the draft code is the suggestion that each house contain a refuge shelter which is designed to resist the effect of wind loading and flying debris and which is capable of protecting the occupants in the event of any collapse of the surrounding structure. It is intended that this be part of the normal dwelling, such as a bathroom or laundry, and that it be designed specifically for these more severe load conditions. Whilst this draft building code is not yet mandatory, many people are anxious to pay regard to it. Therefore, to help the public, I have set up within my Department's . Darwin office a building information group which is explaining the draft code in detail and telling people what designing for a cyclone entails. In addition, a team of architects and structural engineers is visiting individual homes and providing technical advice to the residents. 
The reconstruction of Darwin is the most important individual construction and planning project facing the Australian Government in the next 5 years. Through the establishment of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, the hopes and aspirations of the Darwin people for a safe and happy future can and will be realised. My colleagues and I look forward to working cooperatively and objectively so that these hopes and aspirations can be fulfilled in the shortest possible time. 
-I regard this tax deductibility scheme as having a stimulatory effect on the home building industry in that it confers benefit on a number of people, some of whom aspire to secure a home loan assisted by the fact that they will obtain income on a payasyouearn basis from the tax deductibility system. For example, a person earning an income of $140 a week who has a $15,000 loan at permanent building society interest rates would derive a benefit of $450 per annum. That is a considerable amount of money. People in circumstances like that have that kind of benefit taken into account at the time they apply for a loan and as a result they are admitted to the home loan borrowing system. I believe it would be extremely deleterious if this system were to be abolished. I see the honourable member for Boothby nodding his head. 
-In a recent debate with me the honourable member for Boothby made it clear that the Opposition had been offered this scheme and rejected it. He also made it clear that if the Opposition came to government and had the opportunity of 'unscrambling this scheme'that was the precise terminology used by the honourable gentleman- it would do so. So if there were a change of government 1 300 000 people who are at present having benefits to the tune of $ 1 30m per annum conferred through this scheme would suffer as a consequence and the stimulation given to the housing industry by this scheme would be ended. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969, 1 present the annual statement on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1974. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  I would like to respond to his challenge as well. On 3 December the honourable gentleman and I were interviewed by  Mr Bill  Keyes of the Returned Services League about, in particular, defence service homes matters. I am sure that he will acknowledge that that event occurred. I have a transcript of the interview in front of me. The several paragraphs of it I wish to read have precise application to the point at issue. It reads: 

 Mr Johnson: I thought we had similar attitudes to tax deductibility. I didn't think the Opposition was opposed to it or that they had committed themselves to eliminate it. 

 Mr McLeay: It's discriminatory. 

 Mr Johnson: So you won't uphold it if you come into office? 

 Mr McLeay: Well, I couldn't say that. One of our problems is that there are so many eggs that you fellows are scrambling up. I don't know how many well be able to unscramble. 
I think I missed an earlier comment by the honourable member for Boothby. 
The following paragraph preceded what I have said and I omitted to mention it. 

 Mr McLeay: The one of deductibility was put up to us before, when we were in Government and they were in Opposition. We rejected it. 
-I am defending the veracity of what I said at question time this morning in answer to a question when I made the contention that the honourable gentleman had indicated that the then Government- the previous Liberal-Country Party Government- had rejected the tax deductibility proposal and that he had indicated a lack of enthusiasm for the scheme and when I referred to his mention of the term 'scrambling' and said that he would have an inclination to unscramble this one. That is the subject on which he has challenged me. I think it is apparent that I am establising the authenticity of the claims that I have made to the effect that the Opposition had rejected such a scheme and that if it became the Government it would most certainly oppose it and get rid of it. 

 Mr McLEAY ( Boothby  )-Mr Speaker- 
I rise to a point of order,  Mr Speaker. 
I was going to make the point that the honourable gentleman has gone past the making of a personal explanation. I think I should say to him, in reply, that I have produced the evidence he challenged me to produce and it is irrefutable evidence of the authenticity of what I contended he said. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is my privilege to introduce an entirely new element into Australian housing practice. This is a BUI that Will prove to be a most significant development in the history of Australian housing. The Australian Housing Corporation proposed in this BUI permits us to explore a fresh field of endeavour, that of direct relations between government and private enterprise, and between government and non-profit organisations, in the housing of the large number of ordinary Australian families. It is an anomaly of POliCY in this country that although the Australian Government possesses a substantial reserve of power in the housing field, that power has never been fully gathered together, concentrated and mobilised for the benefit of the people. But that is exactly what is done in the BUI I now present to the House. 
The Chifley Government's negotiation of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement of 1945 is almost certainly the outstanding event in our governmental housing history, enabling as it did the beginning of the great State housing authority movement which has resulted in the building of 280 000 houses. That scheme, effective as it has proved, concentrated on one area of action- State enterprise in the housing of the poorer families in our Australian population. Despite the growth of financial institutions catering largely for the middle income earners, there has never been a Government policy directed at the housing needs of that energetic and deserving section of the Australian people- those above the level of direct need, but who yet require a marshalling of the resources of the community if they are to attain the high quality home which should be the heritage of every family. 
The Australian Government does not have complete constitutional power to perform all housing functions, but it does have substantial powers. Those powers have been used in this Bill to create machinery which will give this Government and its successors a powerful new vehicle, capable if properly directed of fulfilling our national housing aspirations. Honourable members will find in this Bill a general vehicle which can be used in many directions to create housing policy for emerging needs. We shall have a range of options. Some of those that come to my mind are second mortgage loans to cover the deposit gap for young couples; direct loans to special hardship cases; loans for private enterprise building to assist in limiting rentals and loans to co-operative societies providing middle-income housing. 
Elsewhere I have said that the new Corporation is intended not to duplicate or supplant, but to complement State housing authorities. Our Government sees the work of those authorities as of cardinal importance in the creation of good living conditions for the lowest income strata of the population. 
We have but one major criticism of State housing: It is our view that it has tended to perpetuate a culture of the poor by concentrating too many people of low income together, in circumstances of inadequate social provision. We want to diversify the social structure of housing estates by mixing in people of varying incomes and background. But I pledge the Australian Government to continue to support to the limit of our capacity State efforts to build for welfare housing. We have already lifted expenditure on State housing from $ 169m in 1972-1973, the year the LiberalCountry Party Government fell, to $345m this year, and we are currently considering still further increases. 
Our main efforts, however, will go to a new area altogether. We want to do three things: We want to co-operate with private enterprise, directly and openly without inhibition, in the creation of good housing conditions for moderate income people; we want to fill in the economic gaps in our still faulty machinery for the housing of the people; and we want to create a mechanism for the relief of hardship created by the gaps and faults in our financial system. 
Governments in the past have proclaimed their faith in home ownership, although towards the end of the Government we replaced in 1972 the proportion of home ownership actually fell. I want to reiterate that we too believe very strongly in home ownership. But if one looks at past policy one will see a curious policy lack; because our predecessors praised home ownership, they entirely neglected any positive rental policy in the non-welfare area, leaving private enterprise to struggle on as best it can in the provision of rental dwellings as a despised second best. But Australians need good quality rental accommodation, if only because much of the population requires to be mobile and move from job to job, and because many people are saving for a home. Why should the home renter be neglected? Families renting are often both poor and unprotected. The Australian Housing Corporation will be equipped to repair that neglect. Rental housing of good quality for families will be encouraged by direct partnership with private enterprise. We have some idea how to do this, but I also make an appeal to private enterprise to come forward with plans in this field which can be the subject of joint enterprise, where government money is allied with moderate profitseeking in the provision of high quality family homes. 
This is only one of the ways in which we see the new Corporation working. Honourable members will not find in the Bill a great amount of detail. The functions to be performed by the Corporation will be effected by regulations embodying new schemes as and when they are required. Perhaps the majority of these schemes will be about home ownership, because close to seven-tenths of our people now own or are purchasing their homes. But the Corporation is not going to do the same work as a bank. We already have the Commonwealth family of banks, of whose work in housing we are justifiably proud. The Corporation will be primarily a lending institution, but of a different kind. It will not be designed to lend as a competitor with the banks and the building societies. Rather it will complement their efforts. I shall give, as an illustration only, one of the possibilities we have in mind. 
This scheme would provide a means of overcoming the deposit gap. One in five of Australian famines purchasing their homes finds it necessary to take out a second mortgage. This is often done at high cost, employing, for example, the mechanism of the finance companies, which, in my view, would be better to concentrate on consumer goods and automobiles than on long-term durables such as housing. A scheme like this could largely abolish the deposit gap for those income groups who can take advantage of it. For example, we could provide second mortgages up to say $5000 to first time home buyers unable to bridge the deposit gap, to help cover the cost of their land. Naturally. such schemes will always be restricted to persons of moderate income and for houses of moderate cost, but I think honourable members will see that for a great number of young couples, a scheme like that could abolish the waiting time for saving for a house. I have in mind a repayment holiday of perhaps three or five years on this second mortgage. So it would incorporate some of the advantages of the so called deferred payment mortgage schemes. 
Let me take another example. The present economic climate is hurting many people who took on substantial housing repayment obligations in good times when their prospects were excellent. These people may be temporarily out of work or they may, while still in work, be finding the current high interest rates an intolerable burden. I am sure everybody will realise the limits of action in such cases, since funds are not unlimited, but in selected instances the Corporation could move to give them easier financial conditions until their circumstances have improved. I want to open the way for the resources and initiatives of private enterprise to enter a productive partnership with Government. When I say that, I have in mind many overseas examples, some of which I have seen myself. 
In Canada and the United States of America, for example, schemes such as I have outlined are already in force. Canadian governments, at both federal and provincial level, have shown great imagination in encouraging private enterprise. 
The Ontario Housing Corporation, for example, acquires land, develops it and leases it at a ground rent which amortises developed cost of the land over 50 years. But it does not attempt to create housing estates itself; it works in close collaboration with builders. The land can only be obtained through builders selected by that Corporation. Houses are built by private enterprise on Housing Corporation land to a cost limit depending on the size of the home. A would-be home-owner can purchase a house from the builder on 5 per cent deposit of the house cost. After five years' occupancy there is option to purchase the land by the home-owner at original market value. This scheme prevents speculation in land and assists home ownership in controlled estate developments. Concessional interest rates are offered to first home-owners. 
Let me take an example from New York State, which has 2 organisations engaged in financing rental housing: the Urban Development Corporation and the New York State Housing Finance Agency. Both concentrate on rental activities. The Urban Development Corporation finances low income rental projects. The Housing Finance Agency lends up to 95 per cent of the mortgage value of the development scheme to private developers. These developers cater for occupants who can pay the rents necessary to liquidate all taxes, operating and debt service costs. They receive the loans on the condition that the rents they charge are well below market level. Thus entrepreneurs gain the advantage of public financing, keeping their rents down to agreed levels. The Housing Finance Agency has functioned without a single default among the 107 commercial housing developments which it has financed since 1960. 
I want honourable members and the Aus.tralian public to see that we are breaking out of the cold ring of officialdom in housing. We are going to harness the financial resources of the public sector to encourage the creation by private enterprise of high-quality estates. Through their activity and imagination entrepreneurs will earn just, but moderate, profits. We do not have a monopoly of ideas, and I appeal to the builders and developers of Australia, as well at to the Opposition, to come to us with their proposals over a wide area. In some cases, for example, we may provide the land, in others entrepreneurs may develop their land to our standards. I promise one thing: We will avoid excessive control and bureaucracy. 
To come to the detailed provisions of the Bill: The Corporation, as I have said, will be primarily a lending institution. It takes over the responsibilities of the Director of Defence Service Homes, which will be continued without diminution. In addition, so far as it can within its resources, the Corporation will make housing loans available to families, using the family allowance provisions in the Austraiian Constitution, and it will also make loans to those other specific categories of home-seekers for whom the Australian Government has a constitutional responsibility. These may include, if the Government so decides- any future government- persons living in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, migrants, students, Aborigines and persons engaged in work for the Australian Government. It is not a comprehensive list, but it will enable us to do a great deal of work in supplementing the activities of other lending authorities. 
The Corporation will have powers similar to those at present contained in the Defence Service Homes Act, including the powers of construction. But at present we do not see it as a major constructor. It will be able to provide housing assistance to persons other than eligible exservicemen, much in the same way as homes are provided to ex-servicemen under the defence service homes scheme. In those cases where construction resources are required to give effect to new housing initiatives by the Government, as may happen at times in the future with housing for serving members of the forces, the Corporation would utilise the existing resources of the Department of Housing and Construction, or by arrangement those of State Government authorities and the private sector. 
The Corporation will be granted a large measure of financial autonomy. The Bill provides for the corporation to operate the defence service homes scheme from the date the Act comes into operation, so that it will have a large revolving fund. The Bill requires that all other forms of housing assistance to be provided by the Housing Corporation shall be in accordance with regulations to be made under the authority of this legislation. The Parliament will have full control of each extension of its activities. For example, the Corporation will have a power to acquire land, but any proposals to acquire land for a specific development purpose would need to be in accordance with regulations made for that purpose. As a matter of general policy the Corporation would not seek to compete with government or private enterprise in land purchase and in all its actions will be concerned to keep land prices to a minimum. 
I propose to work in closely with my colleagues the Ministers for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on these questions. The Corporation would purchase land on its own account only to the extent that land required for its programs was not available from land commissions or their equivalents in the States. The capital of the Corporation will consist of assets taken over from the Director of Defence Service Homes, together with any amounts paid to it by the Treasurer out of moneys appropriated by Parliament for its purposes. The first payment will be the amount of $25m which has been specifically included in the Budget for the purposes of the Corporation. 
I hope that speedy passage of the Bill will ensure that we spend the 1974-75 budgetary allocation before 30 June. So as to provide a further stimulus to the building industry my own preference would be to begin first on a second mortgage scheme designed to cover the major cost of land for selected young newly married couples. 
Let me say a word about staff. To ensure a business approach we are setting up the new body as a statutory corporation, which means moving people from the Public Service to a new independent employer. The rights of officers to be transferred to the statutory corporation are covered by the Officers' Rights Declaration Act, and although this Act does not as it stands fully protect the rights of officers in this situation, the Government plans very soon to amend the Act. So we do not intend to absorb the abovementioned staff into the Corporation until such time as the Officers' Rights Declaration Act has been amended to deal with such a situation in a better way. There is no intention of transferring technical staff in any significant number to the Corporation, though, in due course, it will obtain from whatever source it can a nucleus of highly competent technical staff who can give a sound lead in housing practice. 
This Housing Corporation is the first fruit of a great process of rethinking about housing and related matters which is now under way, the first since the Curtin Government's 1943 Commonwealth Housing Commission. The Prime Minister has initiated a far-ranging review of national housing policy by the Priorities Review Staff, in which we as a department and other departments are collaborating. I myself am engaged in the preparation of a green paper on all aspects of housing policy, which I hope to present to the House before the end of the present sittings. The Government has assisted the Australian Council of Social Service and its daughter organisation Shelter' with a grant of $50,000 to undertake a grass-roots examination of housing policy as it affects the people at large. This process of examination is to go on throughout the first two-thirds of this year, and will culminate in the 'Shelter' groups and ACOSS joining in a plenary housing conference. That conference will be organised jointly by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies and my Department. The AIUS will appoint a task force to review the results of the grass-roots discussions, and hopefully to present to the public and the Government recommendations distilled from those discussions. This way we will get an amalgam of what I might call the gut-feelings of the people and the views of the experts. 
I believe we are well on the way to correcting the recent low level of activity in the building industry both by releasing more money for lending and by giving unprecedented amounts for State housing authorities. As honourable members know, we have initiated a massive inflow of capital into the housing industry. Next week I am presiding over the first meeting of the Housing Indicative Planning Council, which we hope will enable government and industry to undertake successful joint forward-planning. 
Australia's Federal Government has always lacked its own general vehicle for housing policy, which could step in when all else fails. I know that a perfect vehicle cannot be fashioned while Federal powers in this field remain fragmentary. But I am confident that the vision and hope which have gone into the creation of this Aus.tralian Housing Corporation will result in a much more constructive approach to housing in Australia for the benefit of the Australian people. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-To establish eligibility under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement an applicant may not receive more than 85 per cent of average weekly earnings or, in connection with the home builders account, not more than 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. The level of average earnings was determined at the time the Agreement was made as being the level at the December quarter preceding the application. Fortuitously, the Australian Bureau of Statistics has established a new process for determining seasonal average weekly earnings. I have been able to invoke that process to the benefit of applicants for housing commission loans. The net effect of the new arrangements is that, whereas before throughout Australia the limit of an applicant's weekly income for housing commission eligibility was $102, it has now been increased to $1 19 and, in respect of the home builders account, the amount has risen from $1 14 to $133. New South Wales has a slightly higher level in each case. What it really means is that people with a larger income than was previously the case are now eligible for assistance under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. The income figures I have mentioned exclude overtime and apply to the main breadwinner. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with section 18 (8) (b) of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed  work be carried out without having been referred to the committee: South Stuart Highway- Erldunda to South Australian Border section. 
The estimated cost of the work is $3.2m. The proposal is to develop the remaining section of the highway south of Alice Springs from Erldunda to the South Australian border, a distance of 96 kilometres or 60 miles, to national highway construction standards. In June 1971 the Public Works Committee examined the section of this highway immediately to the north between Erldunda and Alice Springs, a distance of 126 miles. The Committee took evidence at Alice Springs and at Henbury Station and recommended that the construction of this road should proceed. I might mention that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is in the House, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and I served on that Committee and I vividly recall the very strong approval and support that was given to the proposition at that time. In reporting to Parliament, the Committee's conclusions were that there was ample evidence of economic justification for the road, that the benefits would include savings of vehicle operating costs, passenger time, road maintenance costs and savings through reduced wastage of cattle; also that the road was required if the full potential of the local pastoral and tourist industries were to be realised, and that it was also important in the general context of national development. 
The proposed work is of a similar nature to the previous section except that it will be constructed to the new national highway standards. Basically, the new standards provide for an increase in the sealed road width from 20 feet to 22 feet, for an increase in the width of the shoulders from 6 feet to 8 feet and for a higher standard of flood protection and drainage, compared to the section of road now nearing completion. Discussions have taken place with the South Australian Highways Department and agreement has been reached that the alignment of the proposed road in the vicinity of the Northern Territory-South Australian border will suit the future highway route just south of the border in South Australia. I emphasise that matter because I know that it has been of concern to some South Australian members. Discussions have also been held with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to ensure that the route of the road is satisfactory to the Aborigines and that there are no areas of special significance to them within 5 miles of the existing road. Where realignment of the existing road occurs it will be within this corridor. 
It is proposed to seek exemption of this project from reference to the Public Works Committee for several very particular and important reasons. Firstly, it is an extension of the sealed road from Alice Springs to Erldunda, which the Committee has previously examined and recommended for construction for the reasons which I have already outlined. Secondly, there is a need for the early commencement and completion of the road because of the requirement to facilitate the transport of construction material for the rebuilding of Darwin. Subject to Parliament's approval to exemption from reference to the Public Works Committee, tenders can be called in March 1975, enabling committal of the project this financial year, with the road being completed in approximately 2 years. The estimated cost of the project is $3. 2m at December 1974 prices, and it should be noted that of this estimate only $600,000 is attributable to the higher national highway standard compared with those standards adopted for the Alice Springs to Erldunda section of the highway. 
This particular project has for many years been called for by the people of the Northern Territory and South Australia especially. I believe that all honourable members will be very pleased to see the Government's preparedness to proceed with the development and to set about it in such a way that it will be completed as quickly as possible. I commend the motion to the House. 
As I see it, that contribution is best treated with contempt. 
Last night the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  made impetuous comments regarding project tenders which have been called for the supply and delivery of a quantity of special pumping equipment for the Googong pumping station. He did not advise me of his intention to speak on the matter, and since he talked until 10.57 p.m. there was no adequate opportunity for me to reply. The recklessness of his remarks can properly be described as sub judice and is probably without parliamentary precedence. While it might demonstrate the fierce parochialism of the honourable gentleman, it says little for his discretion and propriety. 
Without resorting to the type of slinging match which characterised the honourable member's contribution to the debate on this subject, I want to put some of the facts for him to reflect over so that this matter can be put into proper perspective and the record put straight. In an almost hysterical manner the honourable gentleman said: 
Do you know where this contract is going,  Mr Speaker?  it is going to Russia. 
He went on with such irrelevancies as: 
One wonders why these sorts of things should happen in a country which supposedly is governed by a socialist government which obviously is dictated to by the trade union movement. 
Then he blatantly contended: 
The point will be reached where a large number of men employed in such foundries will have to face possible retrenchment for the simple reason that a Russian firm is going to get this contract- and I wonder how many more contracts. 
In similar style the honourable member for Bendigo went on to assail the veracity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and suggested that the Prime Minister's visit overseas had something to do with taking contracts away from Australian industry. Of course, nothing is further from the truth, as the honourable gentleman surely knows. Two other extracts from his speech are worthy of mention to expose the ineffectual and intimidatory nature of his remarks. For example, he said: 
It is a shame that large manufacturing concerns have to rely on government contracts to keep them going and then find out that overseas organisations are taking away their export trade. 
I only hope that the Minister for Housing and Construction can come down to earth a little and reconsider the letting of the contract to which I have referred. 
This whole sorry spectacle is about the honourable member's desire to tout for a firm in his own electorate, doubtless for the purpose of consolidating the tenuous hold he has over the seat of Bendigo. I do not want to mention the name of the firm in question. I would rather save it from such embarrassment. I am sure it does not seek this kind of treatment. Nor is it proper for me to emulate the honourable gentleman's indiscretion by mentioning any of the tender prices which have been received. 
But I do want to make the following points: My Department is acting as agent for the National Capital Development Commission, and tenders were called which closed on 19 November 1974 for the supply and delivery of 4 sets of pumping equipment for the Googong pumping station. A number of tenders, including one from the company operating in the Bendigo electorate, have been received. It is also true that one company submitted a tender involving the supply of pumps manufactured in the Soviet Union and motors manufactured in Germany. It is quite likely that any tenderer would find it necessary to use some imported equipment as Australia's present capacity to manufacture some of the electrical requirements could prove inadequate. 
The procedure to be taken in such cases is that the Department of Housing and Construction refers the tenders concerned to 4 other advising departments- Treasury, Customs and Excise, Labor and Immigration and Manufacturing Industry- for their views as to whether or not the tender as recommended by the Department should be accepted. This is not a new procedure. The practice was established by the predecessor Government. It was established because the predecessor Government regarded it as a good safeguard. We have faithfully upheld that approach to these matters. 
The nature of the departmental consortium is such that it ensures that due regard is given to opportunities for Australian industry, employment opportunities for Austraiian workmen and other important considerations including tariff matters. In this situation, where my Department is acting as an agent for the National Capital Development Commission, our recommendation as to which tender should be accepted, together with the advice from the advising departments, will be sent to the Commission which will decide finally which tender should be accepted. I have little doubt that in the present circumstances the Commission would refer the matter to its Minister before making a final decision. In any case, I do not decide the issue. It is certainly not yet decided. The opposite impression was given by the honourable gentleman. He has a tendency not to spoil a good story by using too many facts. I do not want to confuse him unduly. Contrary to the dogmatic contentions he has made to the effect that the contract has been awarded to the Russians, my expectation is that my Department will refer the tenders and its recommendation to the 4 advising departments within the next day or so. In the normal course of events a recommendation to the NCDC would be sent within the next 2 weeks. 
I regard it as completely inappropriate for a member of Parliament to raise in Parliament the question of who will or will not be or who should or should not be identified as the successful tenderer for a particular project, without knowing the relevant merits, the tenders or the tenderers and particularly while the matter is still under consideration in the Government. The question clearly is sub judice until my Department's recommendations go through the processes and until the NCDC has advised me and my Department of its acceptance or otherwise of our recommendation for the supply and delivery of these pumps. The honourable gentleman can have my personal assurance that his intimidatory tirade will not deter the Government from coming to a conclusion based on equity and the necessity to ensure that the contract is awarded to a firm which can meet the requirements in every desirable way, on terms and conditions appropriate to public interest. The honourable gentleman asked how many more contracts for that project would be let to overseas firms. He is assured that at this point the Department holds no tenders in connection with the Googong Dam which involve letting a contract to overseas interests. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman will resume his seat. 
in replyThe calibre of this debate has been extremely impressive. 
Debate interrupted. 
by leave- I move: 
That the resolution of the House of Representatives of 21 November 1974 referring the construction of Sanderson High School, Darwin, to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, be rescinded. 
I think this matter would be self-evident to honourable members as a result of the cyclone disaster in Darwin. This proposal was referred to the Public Works Committee on 21 November 1 974 and involved the building of a high school at Sanderson in Darwin at a cost of $6.65 m at 1974 prices. The school was to be of very high standard to cater for 1 100 students and was to be almost identical with the Dripstone High School proposal which was recommended by the Public Works Committee in 1973. The proposed school was to draw from the communities of Malak, Karama, Anula and Walagi. Those suburbs have been seriously affected by the cyclone. They were not intensely developed suburbs but they were in the process of development, and the schools and the subdivision will not now be built as scheduled. The rate of growth for Darwin, as is understood, has not properly been determined at this time. There are various studies going on which have been catalogued by the report of the Cities Commission and, of course, public responses are now being taken. My own Department is engaged in a study of building resources and, of course, matters of that kind will determine the rate of growth to be undertaken. 
The population of Darwin was in the vicinity of 47 000,I think, at the time of the disaster and it is now down to about 23 000.I am told by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  that the present school population, both public and independent, is in the vicinity of 3000 which is somewhere near half what it was in pre-cyclone conditions and that the children of Darwin have adequate school accommodation available to meet present needs. I have been given an assurance by the Minister for the Northern Territory- I think it can be taken that it represents the attitude of the Government- that adequate school facilities will be provided to meet the school needs of Darwin as they develop. There is no need to say anything further on the matter. All honourable members have seen for themselves the enthusiasm with which this Government has proceeded in every conceivable way with the development of Darwin up to the unfortunate incident which beset it. There is no departure, of course, from our intention to see Darwin develop as a great city in the north which will meet our defence requirements, and which will represent a port for the agricultural and mineral resources of that region. It can be taken for granted that the restoration will go on as fast as possible. I take the opportunity to say only that with all other honourable members I regret the circumstances in which it is made necessary to rescind the resoultion referring this matter to the Committee. Otherwise, I give the assurance that when it becomes appropriate to proceed with this development there will be another referral to the Public Works Committee in relation to the Sanderson High School. 
in reply- It is not very appropriate, of course, to deal with Forrest Place in any shape or form at this time, but I would say to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  that the Government likes to strike consistency in relation to these matters. The Forrest Place matter is under consideration and I will be able to determine an attitude in a very short time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2) insert the following sub-clauses: - (2a) A reference in this Act to the lending or granting of money for the building or purchase of a dwelling or for the purchase of land to be used for a dwelling includes a reference to the lending or granting of money for the repayment of a loan to which this sub-section applies. (2b) For the purposes of sub-section (2a)- 
a loan to repay moneys lent and applied for the building or purchase of a dwelling or for the purchase of land to be used for a dwelling; or 
a loan to repay a loan to which that sub-section applies, are each a loan to which that sub-section applies. ' 
This clause includes reference to the repayment of a loan. The amendment is needed to assist people towards the purchase of land. Unless there is such a clause, the Australian Housing Corporation would be unable to assist people who have obtained bridging finance by way of a second mortgage loan to replace the bridging loan. The new definitive clause is needed therefore to make it clear that any reference in the Bill with respect to loans or grants for the building or purchase of dwellings or for the purchase of land, includes loans or grants to take over or discharge charges, mortgages or encumbrances entered into as security for loans raised for the building or purchase of dwellings or the purchase of land. 
I made considerable mention of this objective in the 2 speeches that I made during the second reading debate. If one looks at the whole housing scene at the present time, it can be readily ascertained that many people are in the position where they have had to take second mortgages. For such people it would be a great relief if the Housing Corporation, with the approval of the Parliament, contrived and innovated a scheme which would relieve them of the onerous conditions of such a second mortgage. The clause is specifically designed to accommodate that kind of case. 
In general terms I would like to reply to the comments that have been made. The fact of the matter is that the Opposition must make up its mind. Either it is interested in helping people to discharge mortgages or encumbrances that represent security for loans, either it is interested in assisting people towards the purchase of land or it is not. Either it wants the Australian Government to have a facility that will provide second mortgages and enable people to bridge the deposit gap, or it does not. It seems to me that whilst there is obviously some confusion there does not seem to be any enthusiasm for the fundamental idea that this Australian Parliament, like the Parliaments of the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States of America, should move into this area. 
There are many problems. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  gave the impression that the Australian Government could be expected to dictate to the banks to whom and on what terms they should make loans. Of course it cannot do that. The Government has never sought to do it and if it did seek to do it it would be faced with very great trouble particularly in times of a shortage of investment funds for housing. So that is not the answer. The remedy, or the panacea, for these problems overseas has been identified in terms of the capacity of a government to provide an input to the activites of the traditional lending institutions. That is precisely what we intend to do- to make it possible for this Corporation to lend money not just for houses but also for land to relieve people of their encumbrance. 
I have been asked to spell out precisely the terms and conditions on which this should be  do. ie. I have been asked by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to give chapter and verse about matters which clearly are going to be the prerogative of the Housing Corporation. I am not going to pre-empt the work of the Corporation. The Government is setting up machinery. There is nothing unusual about this, as I mentioned in my second reading speech. I do not think that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  was present to hear my reply to the debate when I instanced a number of corporations which have a range of powers that are well in excess of anything proposed in this legislation. One does not set up corporations and provide all the answers to all the problems that they are going to encounter. The Government has never yet done that. It is setting up a corporation to assist it to assail the problems that presently are confronting the people and the problems that are bound to emerge in the future. Even if I gave the honourable member for Lilley the answer to the particular question that he asked in respect of a current problem, he is well aware of the fact that I could not go on to give all the answers about problems which have not yet even been identified and with which the Corporation will become involved. 
I doubt if the comments of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  are worth a lot of reply. In fact,  Mr Chairman,  I think you regarded most of them as inappropriate to the discussion on this clause. As to his diatribe about the Labor Government being opposed to home ownership, one has only to look at the figures, if I could almost say that as an aside. Housing approvals in the last 2 years of Liberal-Country Party government were 307 482; approvals for the first 2 years of Labor Government were 345 234. That is not a bad figure for a government that is said not to believe in home ownership. The same kinds of figures apply to commencements, completions, the whole range. Let me give the completion figures. In the last 2 years of Liberal-Country Party government 287 000 houses were built and in the first 2 years of a Labor administration 302 000 houses were built. If you do not believe in the Labor Government's enthusiasm for home ownership, have a look at what it has been doing for terminating building societies. I do not think anybody will dispute the fact that terminating building societies' activities are directed to the provision of homes for relatively low income people. In the last year of office of Liberal-Country Party government the home builders account was $56.1m and this year the 
Labor Government is giving $145m in the home builders account for home ownership. So nobody should talk to me about the lack of enthusiasm of this Government. I think we ought to kill that argument right at the start of the Committee debate, because it is apparent that the honourable member for Boothby wants to lead the Opposition in a cliche approach to this debate rather than a factual examination of the matter. 
I do not think it is appropriate to say much more, in view ofthe time. However, I have been asked to give an assurance about how this legislation will affect the provisions that at present prevail in regard to the defence service homes scheme. The Defence Service Homes Act remains intact in every shape and form. It is not to be diminished, nor is the enthusiasm of the Government for the provision of houses for servicemen to be diminished in any way. It might be appropriate for me to tell the Committee, as a consolidation of that enthusiastic attitude that I have indicated, that it is my intention to provide on the board of the Corporation a representative of the Returned Services League so that the interests of ex-servicemen can be effectively safeguarded. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is very hard to follow. I strongly doubt whether he has availed himself of the services of the Parliamentary Counsel. The advice that I have taken on the proposition is to the effect that it is hardly coherent and certainly not a useful contribution to the legislation in any shape or form. It seems to me that the honourable gentleman is pervaded by the thought that the proposed Corporation will take unto itself a substantial building function, and he persists with this attitude despite the assurances that I have given, and which he acknowledged, in response to an interjection just made in the Committee, that I have given. It is certainly not the intention of the Corporation to proceed along those lines. The whole emphasis has been on the need to catalyse the private sector and to use, where it is advantageous, the day labour system or the resources of the Department of Housing and Construction. 
The honourable gentleman seems to be seeking to draw some distinction between the Defence Service Homes activity in this area and other activities. I certainly hope he is not trying to disparage or discourage the very beneficial work that has been undertaken by the Defence Service Homes Corporation in the provision of project homes and the development of estates which has brought very great benefit to people. Of course, in the process of doing that we have predominantly used the services of the private sector. Contractors have been engaged. Of course, the amendment moved by the honourable member relates to clause 6 (2) (b) which states: 
To build dwellings or take pan in . . . 
I should imagine that the honourable member would have difficulty in effectively analysing, interpreting and giving a thorough explanation of the terminology 'take pan in', because to build a dwelling and to 'take part in' it can involve not only the construction but also the planning, the surveying of land and any one of a great variety of processes. So I cannot see that we would be contributing anything worth while by making the excursion into the legislation that he has proposed. 
The fact of the matter is that there could well be a need for a day labour operation. We do not have to apologise for that. There are great advantages if such a process is invoked. One can be faced with a problem of building houses on a remote island, for example one of the Torres Strait islands, or in a remote part of Australia for the housing needs of Aboriginal people. It could be that there is a works establishment in these areas. There could be a federal presence and the building resources could be available in the name of the people of this country. Labour, material and equipment could be available. In such cases it would be the height of absurdity not to use these facilities. What I have told the honourable gentleman is that we regard the likelihood of these services being invoked as being exceptional and certainly ancillary. For the reasons that I have mentioned the Government is disinclined to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley. 
I move: 
After paragraph (c) of sub-clause (2) insert the following paragraph: (ca) to lend and grant money for the payment of rent in respect of dwellings; ' 
The explanatory memorandum which I have had circulated is precise, concise and effective. In general terms the purpose of this amendment is to add a new function, a function which was not provided for in any shape or form in the first Bill that was brought into the Senate and subsequently brought into the House of Representatives. This is a matter which reflects the response which emanated from the dissemination of the Government's objectives. There was a contention to the effect that we should be having regard for the need to lend and grant money for the provision of rental housing. 
-I am not sure what the honourable gentleman means. 
-If that is the level of comprehension that the honourable member has about this clause then it is the height of absurdity because the fact of the matter is that there would be no inhibition on the part of the Government in providing support for rental housing because of provisions other than the ones to which the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  has referred. He has referred to constitutionality that is apparent and which is held by the Australian Government. Everybody knows that there is no inhibition at all in respect of the provision of houses for people in the Territories or for Aborigines, migrants, servicemen, ex-servicemen, students and for certain recipients of social security benefits. That happened to be mentioned in my second reading speech, so the honourable member has latched on to that and apparently has the idea that this legislation is to be confined to people in those categories, including public servants, but he has failed to take account of other things which have been mentioned and referred to in the speeches in the second reading debate and especially in my second reading speech which was delivered when the Bill was introduced. 
What I instanced was the fact that under section 51 ofthe Constitution, placitum (XXIIIa) there is a power to make allowances for families. That being the case, we are able to invoke that power which we propose to do. The invocation of that power will enable us to provide support for rental housing, not just for the public servants and the other specified categories but for all the people of Australia. To the extent that we like to demonstrate benevolence in regard to the rental needs or the need for rental support we are able to do so under these provisions. So we propose to make loans or to grant money for the payment of rent. We want to make it clear that the Housing Corporation can provide rental subsidies direct to families, on the one hand, or indeed to do in Australia what is done in other parts of the world, that is, to assist even the entrepreneurs because the fact is that this sort of thing is done in Canada, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and in Germany. 
It is. probably an indictment on all the governments that have prevailed that no Australian Government has yet recognised the apparent need to support the rental requirements of the Australian people, but this has been done effectively in other parts of the world. So in moving this amendment I suppose in a way I am acknowledging for the first time on the part of any Australian Government that there is a recognition that there is a need to assist people in these circumstances. Here again the Opposition has to make up its mind. It can shilly shally around as much as it likes on this legislation but if it rejects it the Opposition wil take away the prospect of supporting families whose income is such that they are unable to afford adequate rental housing. The kind of thing that we want to do under this legislation is to ensure that any family in Australia- not in certain constitutional limits as mentioned by the honourable member for Parramatta; we are not confining this to public servantsunder a certain income limit and which is paying an amount in excess of 25 per cent of average earnings for desirable and reasonably rented premises is assisted because that family is paying too much. The honourable member has such a fixation about home ownership that he believes we should not give any consideration to the people who cannot alford to have it, and as much as we are making efforts to help them have it, efforts which have doubled those of the previous Government, there still are people who are unable to afford rental housing. 
If the honourable member listens to what the benevolent organisations such as the Brotherhood of St Laurence and many others which have an orientation towards social welfare matters have to say, he wil come to understand that there is a need to provide this faculty. So we intend to make it possible for the Corporation to give support for rental housing, but we are not going to underwrite developers and builders who could possibly be engaged in unreasonable exploitive processes at all. What is done in Canada, in America and in the other countries to which I have referred is that they say to builders: If you care to build something which is adequate and not overbuilt not in the luxury class, and if you are prepared to build things at reasonable prices then we will give an imprimatur about that particular establishment either for rental or for purchase.' So the BUI makes it possible not only to assist the person renting but also in some circumstances to assist even the entrepeneur who wants to build. In other words, we would be catalysing the private sector to get on with the job of building up a stock of rental homes in Australia. but not at the expense of our great concern with home ownership which we are facilitating by this legislation and by other means as well. 
It is a very desirable amendment and I believe that it wil be greatly welcomed by the people of Australia. It has been called for especially by the welfare oriented bodies. I should imagine that in the short term the Australian Housing Corporation would consider recommending that we should go on with a prototype scheme so that we can open the door for the construction of a greater volume of rental faculties than has been the case in the past. 
Despite the patience of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  it has become clearly impossible to tolerate the obstruction, the delaying tactics and the filibustering of honourable gentlemen opposite. It became as plain as a pikestaff as soon as the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who leads for the Opposition in regard to housing, delivered his speech in the second reading debate that the Opposition would not have any part of this Bill. Honourable members opposite have since clouded that fundamental fact with all kinds of obscurity and confusion. It is as clear as can be that they have no intention of approving the establishment of an Australian Housing Corporation which would enable this Government to take real initiatives to resolve the dilemma that people in this country, as well as people in other parts of the world, are experiencing. There are honourable gentlemen opposite who seem to wallow in every development of an adversity so far as housing is concerned. They watch the Statistician's figures that come out. If there is a decline in commencement, approvals or anything else they rub their hands in glee because they are more concerned about their declining electoral prospects than they are about the welfare of the people of this country. 
in reply- On 1 1 December last the Australian Housing Corporation Bill 1974 was introduced in the Senate. Drafting of the legislation had been commenced early enough to permit its introduction in the House of Representatives which had concluded its sittings on 5 December. I was anxious that the Bill should be introduced as early as possible to enable the Parliament and the community to evaluate its provisions and to react and respond in such a way as would enable useful suggestions to be made which could be taken into account. The Bill was subsequently withdrawn from the Senate and re-introduced in the House on 13 February. Amendments have been circulated concurrent with the resumption of the second reading debate. The amendments to the Bill will enable the Corporation to make loans or grants for the repayment or discharge of existing loans, make loans or grants for the payment of rent, provide housing accommodation for students, perform its functions by being able to make conditional grants or loans to Australian companies to build or buy dwellings or land for dwellings. 
The main objective of the legislation is to equip the Government with a new authority which will develop a capacity to administer effectively those housing activities which are referred to it initially and subsequently. Upon its establishment the Corporation will administer the Defence Service Homes Act. Personnel administering the defence service homes scheme will bring to the Corporation experience and momentum gained over more than a half a century. There are approximately 186 000 homes subject to existing loans under the defence service homes scheme, with loan balances outstanding in the vicinity of $ 1 billion. With an annual budget in excess of $100m the defence service homes scheme will constitute a stable and substantial part of the Corporation's activities for many years to come. Trie Government is intent on sustaining the consideration now extended to the housing needs of ex-servicemen. This has already been effectively demonstrated by the initiatives we have taken to raise the maximum level of loan and widen the area of eligibility. This scheme will widen immensely the Australian Government's ability to work helpfully and co-operatively with institutional lenders and with the private sector so as to fulfil the housing aspirations of a significant sector of the Australian community. The time has come to bring that same capacity, that same resourcefulness which has enabled the old war service homes scheme to bring homes to more than 323 000 veterans down the years, to meet the housing needs of a broader range of Australian citizens. In many respects the Australian Housing Corporation Bill is an emulation of the Defence Service Homes Act. 
The Bill lays down that the prescribed function of the Corporation is: 'To lend money for the building or purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings'. As is the case with the Defence Service Homes Act, it is necessary to prescribe ancillary powers to enable this primary function to proceed- for example, power to purchase or take on or hire and dispose of plant, machinery, equipment or other goods; to enter into contracts; to erect buildings or to demolish buildings; to set out, construct and maintain roads; to make accessible and transfer land in an area being developed for housing, for use as a park or recreation; to sell or lease land, to charge interest; to take mortgages; to make charges for work and so on. Even in the context of the defence service homes scheme, which principally exercises its function by lending at extremely low rates of interest, these powers are available and utilised. 
It is particularly important to clarify the position of the defence service homes scheme because this has been subject to some misunderstanding. The Corporation builds upon the foundation of defence service homes. It will take over their administration. Nothing is taken away from ex-servicemen by the Bill but much else is added. The Government is intent on sustaining the consideration now extended to the housing needs of ex-servicemen. This has already been effectively demonstrated by initiatives we have taken to raise the maximum level of loan and to widen the area of eligibility. I undertake on behalf of the Government that it will continue to assist the housing of ex-servicemen. Indeed, our record shows, both as to amounts lent and as to the persons eligible, that we have widened and strenghtened this scheme. Eligibility now includes serving members of the regular forces who have completed 3 years' service. National servicemen serving on 2 December 1972 who have completed their service are also eligible. There are many others whom time will not permit me to mention to the House. Since coming into office the Government has amended the Defence Service Homes Act on 2 occasions and has extended the nature and scope of the scheme. In 1973 it increased the loan from $9,000 to $12,000 and last year it increased the maximum loan to $15,000. 
As stated in the Bill, the principal function of the Australian Housing Corporation is to lend money for the building or the purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings. In effect, therefore, the Corporation will be providing housing assistance to new groups in the community on lines similar in many respects to those under the Defence Service Homes Act for servicemen and ex-servicemen. Under the Defence Service Homes Act the Director is required to pay all money he receives into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Bill provides that upon the Corporation taking over the administration of that scheme all such receipts shall form part of the capital of the Corporation and will then become available for relending by the Corporation. 
Opposition speakers have queried the need for setting up a corporation for the purposes we have described. The reason the Corporation is necessary is clear. It is the same reason that Government corporations have been set up in many areas of public activity. The powers and functions of the Corporation are designed to allow it, if and when the appropriate regulations are made, to take direct action in a wide field in the implementation of the housing policy of the Aus.tralian Government. It will certainly act as a lending authority, which will require it to have status as a legal person, as a mortgagee, a creditor, an entity which can sue and be sued in the administration of its lending business. It requires the degree of independence for its day to day operations, which would be impossible for a government department. It needs to have continuity in its financial dealings and not to be limited to a system of annual appropriations to which government departments are subject. A circulating fund is essential for a lending authority to plan its future operations. 
I invite members of the Opposition who have criticised our decision to look at other cases in which systems of government lending have been established. The various government housing commissions, housing trusts, home finance trusts and housing commissioners all have a separate indentity and a degree of financial independence. They are not part of a government department and were set up in their present form by governments on both sides of politics. In addition to its lending function the Corporation needs, on appropriate occasions, to be a land holder and - to carry out construction and development functions. These functions also require that it should have legal identity. When the National Capital Development Commission was set up by the Liberal-Country Party Government did anyone claim that it should be merely a branch of the Department of the Interior? It would have been greatly handicapped in its functions had it been limited to this form. The Australian Housing Corporation will be the operational arm of the Government in the housing field. It would be a very weak arm if it were compressed within the form of a routine government department. 
As to the suggestion of the Opposition spokesman on housing that it will cost $25m merely to set up the Corporation, I suggest he should now have a closer look at the Bill. He will see that apart from the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Construction and a general manager there are to be only six other Corporation members. These are all to be part time members. If this were to cost $25m they would be the highest paid board members in history. The bulk of the staff assisting the Corporation will be working on the operations side. I stress that these staff are already in existence and are attached largely to the Defence Services Homes Division ofthe Department of Housing and Construction. There is already staff for the Corporation and it already occupies adequate accommodation. There are costs but they are costs that have already been incurred for many years and they are costs that will not be increased merely by transferring them from the Department to the Housing Corporation. Naturally there will be a small buildup of staff to assist the Corporation on policy matters, but rather than being a net cost this will be a positive benefit as it will increase the efficiency of operations of the housing scheme currently administered. 
I point out that the defence service homes administrative costs have always been carried by the Government as a benefit to ex-servicemen. In future they will be shown as a cost to the Corporation but they will not be a net additional expenditure. The overall cost of establishing the Corporation will be minimal but $25m will be spent on housing the people. The Opposition spokesman on housing in his speech argued that the Australian Housing Corporation will take over the role of State housing authorities. This, of course, is nonsense. We are firmly committed to supporting the State housing authorities and under the 1973 Housing Agreement, which will run through to 1978, we will supply money at 4.5 per cent interest to the home builders' account, compared to a 1 per cent subsidy offered under the previous administration. We have increased the allocation to the State governments from $163m made by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972-73 to $375m in 1974-75. This is an increase far beyond that needed to compensate for inflation. In suggesting that the Australian Housing Corporation will take over the role of the State housing authorities the Opposition has misinterpreted the role which the Corporation will play. 
As I said in my second reading speech, there are a number of people outside the scope of the present welfare housing assistance programs run by the States who are unable to make satisfactory financial arrangements to purchase a dwelling. The role of the Corporation will be to overcome this gap, to round out the financial market. Certainly we could fund terminating building societies to enable them to finance a higher income bracket than now is the case. In fact I have already stated that this could be one possibility, but how can State organisations such as the State housing authorities as they are presently structured assist with the second mortgage problem which confronts one in five home buyers or how could State organisations as they are structured provide assistance to private renters? I can reiterate only that the Corporation will complement, not compete, with the State housing authorities and the Australian Government will continue to support the valuable role played by them. 
The possibilities open to the Corporation are limited only by the resources which the Government can command. Let me list some of the possibilities which could be implemented when funds and opportunities arise. We could: 
Provide second mortgage loans for the acquisition of land. 
Refinance mortgages for people in hardship categories. 
Lend to organisations wishing to conduct cost rent societies. 
Lend to selected categories of home seekers directly, that is, to those who earn above the terminating society limit but not enough to service permanent building societies or bank loans at interest rates varying according to income. 
Lend to co-operative building societies choosing a higher income group than under the housing agreement and necessarily, of course, charging higher interest. 
Provide rent subsidies; that is, make up the difference between 25 per cent of income and market rate in respect of approved rental dwellings with a market rent approved by the Corporation. 
Provide direct interest subsidies to certain income categories. 
Encourage development of good quality low cost housing estates by making available low interest front-end finance and providing purchase finance in respect of the estate homes. 
Upgrade housing stock by providing finance for housing rehabilitation. 
Finance and assist innovative programs suggested by developers, builders, building societies, banks or community groups. 
1. Act in a counter cyclical way to bring stability to the level of activity in the building industry, both nationally and regionally. 
To move quickly and flexibly to meet specific and varied housing needs the Australian Government, like most progressive overseas national governments, requires instruments available for its purposes. For example, national governments in Canada, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Germany have found it necessary to become deeply involved in the field of housing. In Great Britain a housing corporation was established in 1964 to assist bridge the gap between the public and the private sectors. The United Kingdom housing corporation provides assistance through subsidies, loans and grants to voluntary housing agencies, societies and so on to widen the range and choice of accommodation. Its funds may be used for cost rent and co-ownership societies, programs involving the acquisition of existing housing or the building of new housing estates and for rehabilitation and renovation. The legislation originally proposed by the then Conservative Government in the United Kingdom sought to increase the powers of the corporation to enable it, among other things, to buy and sell land, to develop land for housing and to acquire, convert and improve existing housing. The legislation was subsequently passed when the Labour Government came to office. 
In Canada the federal body is the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation which was established in 1945. It has a very wide range of powers and responsibilities in both the public and private housing fields. It works in close cooperation with the provincial government bodies. It can do all that is proposed for the Australian Housing Corporation and more. It can, among other things, make mortgage loans on low rental housing projects, make loans and contributions to non-profit and co-operative bodies for housing, make long term loans to the provinces for the acquisition or construction of housing and make loans to assemble land for residential purposes. In 1965 in the United States of America the Department of Housing and Urban Development was set up to ensure that the Federal Government was enabled to be more effectively involved in 2 critical domestic problemsthe provision of decent housing in a wholesome environment and the future of cities and suburbs. 
There is a gap caused by the rate of increase in the cost of housing and serviced land that has created a new type of need. The public housing authorities and the private market in many overseas countries have not been able, on their own, to meet this need. Therefore, national government involvement and support have been essential. I suggest that the emergence in Australia of a large group of persons not catered for by either existing public or private agencies justifies our Government in taking notice of all this relevant overseas practice. 
The principal weight of the Opposition attack on the Bill related to the allegation that there was an unusual degree of regulation-making power conferred under this Bill, and that the Australian Housing Corporation, unlike other organisations, would be largely free of parliamentary supervision. I can now say that in fact the opposite is the truth. The legislation confers less discretionary power on this Corporation than can be found in most corporations, a large proportion of them introduced by the LiberalCountry Party coalition. The Australian Industry Development Corporation Act, for instance, provides in section 9 that in the exercise of its powers the Corporation is not subject to direction by or on behalf of the Commonwealth. Honourable members will find nothing so derogatory of the power of Parliament in the present Bill. In the Australian Film Development Corporation Act, a piece of legislation introduced by the Gorton Government, there is power to make loans on such terms and conditions as the Corporation thinks fit. This is a very wide discretionary power indeed which is not given to the Australian Housing Corporation. 
There are many other examples, but time will not permit me to provide the full list. I could expand the list indefinitely, but if we take one further example, it will be enough. Section 1 6 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act, which constitutes the Commission under that name, enumerates powers falling into 2 categories- those that can be exercised without ministerial approval, and those which need ministerial approval but not Parliament's approval. What we are proposing in this Bill will be a far more democratic process than the legislative examples I have quoted. We are committed to open government and community participation. In this matter of housing, which goes so closely to the basic living of our people, we have initiated a participatory process which will yield within the next 6 months a depth of understanding of the needs of the ordinary people such as Australia has never had before. 
So far as the Housing Corporation is concerned, I propose 2 things: First in order that the Corporation should be fully representative, I have circulated an amendment increasing its size from 6 to 8. Second there is a tendency for even the most representative organisation to become inward-looking and to get out of touch with the people whose welfare it is supposed to serve. I therefore intend to have a committee directly advising me on matters primarily arising from the Australian Housing Corporation, but flowing over the whole field of housing POliCY 
I appeal to members of the Opposition to reexamine their expressed attitudes in the light of the precedents and explanations 1 have given. Above all, I appeal to the people of Australia and to the people who could benefit from this great new Corporation to see it in its great potentialityto the ex-servicemen who will be served, to the lesser privileged people, to the young couples who could have their deposit gap removed, to the energetic and innovative entrepreneurs and developers who can join us in productive partnership- to swing in behind the Government in support of this legislation. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I appreciate the views of the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  In fact, I find my own attitudes in a number of respects running parallel with his. This Bill is the product of intense application to the human, legal and philosophical considerations associated with marriage and separation by legislators, lawyers, marriage guidance counsellors, church leaders, social workers and many others, over many years. The process has been greatly intensified since this Bill was introduced in December 1973. In these matters there are both primitive and sensitive responses, yet more than anything else is the evidence of evolving and, I think, maturing attitudes which in effect means a shifting of an element of public attitude from the traditional status quo. In other words, Australia with its application to this whole issue appears to be growing up. More and more, the sublime state of marriage is being acknowledged; that the relationship which is fulfilling needs no chains; that the marriage is not enhanced in its quality by the near insurmountable problems associated with divorce. 
The institution of marriage is not impaired because bad unions can be ended. Indeed, it can be greatly enhanced by replacing an unhappy first marriage with a successful second or subsequent marriage. Those who passionately uphold the institution of marriage, and few here' seem to disparage it, are concerned with the rising incidence of separation and divorce and the likelihood that the passing of this Bill might see it rise even further. They can draw consolation that the incidence of marriage, including second and third marriages, often involving mature people, is steadfastly rising. The Bill formally acknowledges that one party can bring a marriage to an end. That emphasises the fact that the relationship is a human one between 2 people. The role of the court in such circumstances is a restricted one. It cannot regurgitate the indefinable chemistry of affection, affinity, respect or love. It has no competence in the resuscitating process of a declining marriage. It can acknowledge, on the evidence of at least one party to the union and the demonstration by one year's separation, that the marriage is dead and fulfil its official function by virtually issuing a death certificate in respect of the marriage. All this can be done in such a way as to preserve privacy and dignity and to prevent additional hurt and financial outlay. 
Husbands and wives are in agreement about their divorce in the vast majority of divorces granted in Australia. Of all divorces granted 95 per cent were uncontested, and of that figure probably 80 per cent were cases of the parties having agreed to be divorced. It is my view that the existing legal requirement that a matrimonial offence such as adultery or cruelty be proved only adds distress and humiliation and is an inducement to dishonesty. Adultery and cruelty were symptoms associated with the breakdown of a marriage. The breakdown was best evidenced by the agreement of the parties that the marriage had broken down. 
The Bill gives full regard to the rights of adults to determine their own relationships as responsible adults, according to ordinary law, provided their actions did not injure or work to the detriment of innocent people. The modern history of divorce law reform has occurred in the last 100 years. Divorce which was once impossible to obtain, except by using expensive legal fiction, is now readily available. The great remaining bad feature of our divorce law is that adultery or cruelty or some other black and white matrimonial offence has to be proved. That is the bad feature of our existing law. It should not be necessary to prove such an offence in cases where the parties, being adults, have agreed that their marriage had come to an end. The 12 months separation period is sufficient in my view to prove a breakdown of the marriage where there was no consent. Any overt reintroduction of the fault principle will be a retrograde step and any lengthening of the period of time for the separation would make divorce more difficult to obtain than it is now. 
The most recent public opinion poll found that 77 per cent of Australian women and 7 1 per cent of men favoured the introduction of no fault divorce; 61 per cent of women and 59 per cent of men favoured a separation period of 12 months or less. One cannot place all the credibility in the world on polls of this kind but, nevertheless, what they reveal is more than a straw in the wind. It is not surprising that new legislation on such fundamental concerns as marriage, family relations and divorce should be open to doubts and criticism. But this Bill has been subject to a campaign of misrepresentation and vilification that threatens to build up to a crescendo of hysteria. I think that it is good that we should circumvent that process and cause all of our rationalising capacities to be brought to bear so that we can get a decision out of this Parliament as quickly as possible. 
The Bill is being denounced as a conspiracy to wreck marriages, break up families, spread immorality, tear the social fabric and destroy the nation. The basic purpose of the Bill is to diminish the oppressive costs, delays, indignities and other injustices inherent in the present divorce laws and their administration. Central to this aim is the replacement of the old principle of matrimonial fault as the justification for divorce with the concept of irretrievable breakdown of marriage as evidenced by at least 12 months separation. That concept recognises the reality that marriage is not simply an enforceable legal confact and is not only, for those who see it as such, an irrevocable spiritual union. It is fundamentally an intimate human relationship between 2 people and therefore unaviodably subject to all the vagaries of human nature. When such a relationship breaks down beyond repair, it makes little sense and less humanity to apportion fault or blame or guilt between the parties. It would not matter whether that could be done effectively; it would serve no useful purpose. 
The present requirement in all divorce cases, other than those on the ground of 5 year separation, to prove a matrimonial offence tends to maximise the scope for hostility, hypocrisy and humiliation. Twelve months separation is a reasonable test of irretrievable breakdown. It allows ample time for possible reconciliation without prolonging the waiting period to intolerable lengths. The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Melbourne, the Most Reverend  Dr E.  B. Little, in a restrained castigation of the Bill, objected that it did not enshrine the Christian ideal of marriage as a lifetime bond of protection and real support. The sad truth is that when this ideal no longer flourishes in the hearts and minds of those who once embraced it, there is little point in trying to impose it through the civil law. A more colloquial complaint is that the Bill could become a Casanova's charter, enabling a philandering husband to dispose of his wife against her will with a minimum of fuss. Again the reality is that Casanovas need no charter and heed few restraints. The new law would not make desertion more commonplace. It simply recognises the futility of irrevocably preserving in law what has been irredeemably severed in fact. 
The Bill does not provide for quickie divorces. On the contrary, many couples will have longer to review their relationship. At present more than a third of all divorce petitions are on the ground of adultery, in relation to which proceedings may begin immediately. In future there will be a 12-month waiting period. This time lag might appear unjust to a wife who wishes to obtain immediate relief from an excessively cruel or wayward husband. However, the BUI provides for other remedies, such as the taking out of an injunction. 
Another misunderstanding is that the Bill would relieve a husband of the legal duty to support his wife and impose on a divorced wife the primary obligation to maintain herself. The basic change in this regard is that the question of maintenance would be determined on a careful assessment of respective needs, responsibilities, resources and earning capacities, without there being a necessity for any argument over rights and wrongs. The Bill would substantially improve upon the present unsatisfactory arrangements for settling and enforcing maintenance and custody, and thus more effective and fair consideration will be given to the wishes of children involved in a family breakdown. Also, on the positive side, the Bill provides for the establishment of special family courts to take the whole gamut of family law out of the daunting atmosphere of the civil and criminal courts. It provides also for more effective and expert counselling services to facilitate possible reconciliation. 
These concepts have undergone extensive review and revision since former  Senator Murphy  first tried to simplify divorce proceedings by hasty regulation. They have won formidable support from many Christian and other authorities intimately interested and experienced in matrimonial law, marriage guidance and family welfare. No one can pretend that the proposed law is incapable of being abused. No human law is an invincible safeguard against human perfidy and frailty. But, on balance, the interests of justice, dignity and happiness will be better served by the new legislation than by clinging to the discredited and defective status quo. 
The proposals of the Family Law Bill to provide for the grounds of irretrievable breakdown of marriage determined by a maximum of 12 months separation to be the sole ground for divorce will remove many of the cruel and bitter experiences suffered by both parties in such a situation. The Senate has already carried the Bill and the House of Representatives is now looked to to carry the Bill also. I might add that in personal discussions with a number of people affected, and also with those who have passed through the present divorce proceedings, I have found that the quasi criminal type atmosphere created around what is in fact a very personal family matter has had severe emotional effects on many people concerned. Because of the opportunity for people to avoid their responsibilities under the present Act the suffering is increased rather than reduced by the restrictions imposed. Also, it can be shown that the breakdown of the family and divorce proceedings have a traumatic effect on the children as well as the adults. 
Members of Parliament have been under tremendous pressure to restrict the proposed changes to the minimum but I can assure honourable members that most of them who have contacted me by letter and those with whom I have discussions, all recognise the tremendous step forward that will follow the application of the Family Law Bill. On their behalf I urge honourable members to support the Bill. As the vote is on a personal and individual basis I put it to honourable members that they have a great responsibility for the future happiness and security of large numbers of people and families who can only benefit if the Family Law Bill is carried. 
I have received hundreds of letters for and against the proposal. Perhaps some of the anguish expressed by this correspondence can be understood if I quote part of one letter from a young man whose marriage has failed. He wrote: 
In short, our marriage was a failure, we tried to preserve it and our family circle. Old-fashioned and out of date laws brought unhappiness and enormous expense. After 12 months we are quite sure it is over and I desperately want to start again, perhaps marry and have more children. I'm sure my wife wants to be free also. 
Before you vote against the new Family Law Bill, please read these questions below that I have asked myself so many times. I do not think these new laws will perform miracles but they provide a little dignity for people in our position. 
I feel they will lead to much better laws in the future and in my case their delay will only prevent me starting a new life and settling down if I so desire. 
These are his questions: 
Why should people be bound together after a marriage failure and after 12 months if they have sincerely done everything in their power to save the marriage? 
Why should a man not be able to have custody of his child? Why shouldn't men and women have equal rights in the question of custody? I feel a percentage of men are equally as capable of looking after children as a percentage of women. 
Why should blame be levelled in divorce cases? 
Why should a man have to pay alimony to his wife when she may be capable and able to work? 
Why is the law so complicated that huge sums of money must change hands to achieve anything legally? 
Why is the law geared up to bring further unhappiness and frustrations, and why can 't it be changed now? 
This victim of the present law concludes in this way: 
I don't believe that these new laws will solve all the problems, but please vote for them and get them working quickly, then we can see their failings and change them accordingly. 
My marriage is over, I want to start again- now- please help me and many others in the same position. 
I support this Bill because it is first and foremost a recognition of the realities of contemporary marriage. While most people hope and believe that marriage should ideally be for life, especially when they enter the marital state, there nevertheless should exist the possibility of escape from a marriage relationship which has irretrievably broken down. This Bill reflects modern social thinking- that marriage is far more than a mere legal contract. However, if a breakdown does occur, the legal shell which remains should be removed as simply and painlessly as possible by humane divorce proceedings. 
Even the opponents of this Bill will concede that it takes two to maintain a happy marriage. Ultimately, the only criterion is whether one party is either unable or unwilling to continue in a marriage relationship with the other party. I hope I am not oversimplifying the issues involved. These are the ways that I sincerely see them. Shorn of the side arguments which intrude, this is the final real test of marriagewhether 2 people want to be party to it. This Bill recognises this reality and in my view it is time it became law. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a warehouse and workshop at stage 2 development of the central hospital service complex, Crace, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposal is stage 2 of the development of the complex to eventually supply the support services needs in a central facility for all present and future hospitals and other health institutions in the Australian Capital Territory. The proposal involves the construction of a warehouse, workshop and other minor facilities. Construction will consist of reinforced concrete floors with triangulated steel space frame roof structures, supported in the warehouse on reinforced concrete columns, and in the workshop on perimeter steel columns. External walls will be concrete blockwork, with metal framed windows, metal deck roofing, and metal fascias. Certain areas will be air conditioned, with the main warehouse area heated. Reticulated systems such as compressed air, etc.. will be provided to the workshop. Roads and car parks will be integrated with the stage 1 works, as will landscaping of the area around the stage 2 proposal. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2.35m at July 1974 prices. 
The Committee concluded that there was a need for the facility, that the siting of the stage 2 works was suitable in relation to the stage 1 buildings, and that the work in the reference should proceed to construction. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of an orchestral studio and music centre, Brisbane. 
The proposal is to provide a studio office and service complex to house the Queensland Symphony Orchestra and the music department of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Queensland Branch, with facilities for high quality sound recording and transmission with limited facilities for television promotion using mobile equipment. Construction will be of reinforced concrete founded on piles, with metal roofing over a concrete slab. The building will be air conditioned, with carpet and special finishes to provide sound attenuation and to create the special acoustic climate required in certain areas. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Committee was $2.35m. The projected estimated cost when tenders are planned to be called in March 1975 is $2.8m. 
The Committee concluded that there was a need for the facility, that the site selected was suitable, that the facility will not adversely affect the local environment, that the siting will provide an attractive landscape, and that the work should proceed to construction. The Committee investigated flooding in the area and concluded that there was only a small risk of the complex being seriously affected by flooding. The Committee noted that flood mitigation works now proposed on the Brisbane River will alleviate the flooding problem in the area, and that the complex had been designed to be above the flood level of the recent flood, with provision for restoration with minimum inconvenience in the event of a future worse flood. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of Road Safety and Standards Authority facilities at Albury/Wodonga. 
The proposal is for facilities to house the Road Safety and Standards Authority, which is to be the focal point for more direct Australian Government involvement and for more vigorous and better co-ordinated action at the national level on road safety generally, and on emissions and consumer protection in relation to motor vehicles. The facilities to be provided include an administrative building, facilities for outdoor testing of vehicles, and a complex of buildings accommodating indoor testing equipment and associated elements, together with access roads, car parks, landscaping, and engineering services to the complex. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $9m at February 1975 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The task force on modern housing submitted its report last year following the investigation of about 200 housing systems. There was a very fine response from Australian entrepreneurs who felt they had design concepts that could contribute to the reduction in housing costs. My Department has now decided to take this matter a step further and has placed advertisements inviting companies to apply for the opportunity of being selected to provide prototype housing, which will be built probably in the Australian Capital Territory, which will be exposed to examination by persons, including developers and public housing authorities which are interested in seeing the quality of such houses and the advantages that would accrue in terms of the economies of scale that could follow large scale contracts entered into by governments and developers. Generally speaking, we see the situation in which Australian building resources can come under very heavy demand in the near future as a result of the improved liquidity scene, evidence of which has been made available in the improved lending figures of the savings banks. We believe that it will be important to contrive better ways of making houses in terms of maximising the labour force and deriving results from forces which hitherto have not been utilised for the purpose of housing production. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The management consultant firms listed in 2 (i) (ii) (iii) were engaged to carry out a survey of the Department's stores and plant workshops and to continue studies in respect of project management and establishment of a management information system. 
(i) Colin Woodley Pty Ltd. 
John P. Young and Associates Pty Ltd. 
Campbell Mahlook Partners Pty Ltd. 
The total cost was $22,934. 
The Treasury: Research and Development Staff (Question No. 867)  Mr Snedden  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Ho w many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under his control are employed on research and development work. 
Where are they employed. 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken. 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program. 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has been financing cooperative housing on a substantial scale since 1956 by means of funds supplied to terminating building societies under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. My Department maintains a close interest in the activities of these cooperative societies and also undertakes a regular examination of co-operative developments in other parts of the world. We are currently examining some of these developments, such as cost-rent societies aimed particularly at low income earners, in connection with the activities of the proposed Australian Housing Corporation. 
Medium density housing is one of the main topics being handled by the Housing Research Branch of the new Division of Building Technology and Sociology in my Department This research project will be long term and comprehensive and will require an examination of alternative dwelling types and the effect of these different types on resident attitudes. Factors such as the net dwelling densities, the efficiency of land utilisation, the area of private open space and the provision of car parking will be takeninto account when making a comparison of costs between medium density housing and traditional low density housing. The study will determine how these costs bear on the occupier, and how they bear on the community as a whole through the provision of services. Following the pattern set in a study done in Norway, a comparison will also be made between what has actually been achieved in medium density developments, and what can be theoretically achieved. 
Department of Housing and Construction: Publication 'Shelter' (Question No. 1417) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Fifteen issues of 'Shelter' have been printed. 
) Approximately 4,500 copies are distributed by mail. 
) Opposition members may obtain a copy of the list on application to the Department of Housing and Construction. 
'Shelter' will accept contributions from anyone, including the Opposition and, in fact, every edition has car- ' tied a special invitation calling for articles. The Editor does reserve the right to select articles for publication. 
Each issue costs around $650 to print- typesetting charges vary. 
and (7) The names and qualifications of the contributors are shown in the following table. Also included in the table is the fee paid to contributors where relevant. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Home Savings Grant Scheme. 
To encourage and assist young married persons, and young widowed or divorced persons with dependent children, to buy or build their own homes, and to reward savings made towards that objective. 
Briefly, to be eligible for a grant of up to $750, a person must- 
have married; 
be under 36 years of age; 
have contracted to buy or build, or have commenced to construct as an owner-builder, the person's first matrimonial or family home, valued at not more than $22,500; 
d ) have held savings in Australia for at least three years in an approved form before acquiring a home; and 
be an Australian citizen, or a resident of Australia, for at least three years. 
20 July 1964. 
Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1973. 
(a) By distribution of the Departmental explanatory pamphlet 'A Grant for Your Home', and application forms, which are available free of charge from banks, building societies, post offices and offices of the Department; 
by extensive publicity in the early years of the Scheme, and on each occasion the legislation is amended; 
by continued liaison with savings institutions and lending authorities. 
1971-72 41,735 
1972- 73 47,260 
1973- 74 41,609 
The Secretary to the Department and officers holding delegated powers under the legislation. 
1971-72 92.1 percent 1972- 73 91.2 percent 1973- 74 92.2 percent 
100 per cent. 
and (13) Departmental officers in each capital city are in daily contact either personally or in writing with applicants and prospective applicants, and with savings institutions and lending authorities, throughout Australia, to explain the requirements of the Scheme. 
14) All reasonable efforts have been made to bring the existence of the scheme, the eligibility conditions and the application procedures to the notice of the community. 
There is no requirement in the legislation that the grant must be expended on the purchase or construction of the dwelling but, if the purchase or construction has not been completed at the time of application for the grant, the recipient of a grant must advise the Department if the purchase or construction is not subsequently completed. Checks are made in cases of doubt. 
1971-72 $17.4 million 1972- 73 $2 1.3 million 1973- 74 $24.7 million 
1 7) $ 1 53.8 million for the ten-year period from the inception of the Home Savings Grant Scheme on 20 July 1964 to 30 June 1974. 
1 8) A Home Savings Grant may not be made in respect of a home purchased from a State housing authority (or from another person with the assistance of a loan from the authority) if the home was built or the purchase is financed with money provided under a Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement or if the terms of purchase are subsidised by reason of an Australian Government grant to the State under the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971-1973. Similarly, in the case of a home in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, a grant is not payable if the home is purchased from, or with the aid of a loan from, the Australian Government or the Northern Territory Housing Commission. This is checked at the time of examining an application for a grant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the details concerning the Department of Housing and Construction given in the Special Minister of State's answer to Question No. 1862 published in Hansard of S December 1974, pages 4841 to 4847. 
-It is quite inconceivable that without planning the essential components of the housing industry can be brought together in sufficient proportions to ensure the successful performance of that industry. In consideration of that philosophy the Australian Government decided to set out to plan the industry. On 2 1 February last, with the participation of the Prime Minister, the Housing Indicative Planning Council was launched on a national basis. I am pleased to have had some indications of cooperation from the Opposition about this matter. On 1 May the State counterpart of that Council will be launched in South Australia, on 6 May it will be launched in Tasmania, on 9 May in Queensland and subsequently it will be launched in at least 2 other States. I regret to say that at this stage there is no indication of co-operation by the Western Australian Government which, I believe, could benefit a great deal by planning processes. I am hopeful there will be a change of heart so we can launch a counterpart of the Housing Indicative Planning Council in that State. 
So far, on the national scene, we have had the co-operation of all the significant sections of the housing industry, including the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Master Builders Association, the Housing Industry Association and the significant lending institutions. The stated aims of the Indicative Planning Council are to determine desirable and feasible levels of housing for the triennium ahead and over a 3-year rolling period to reduce fluctuations in the housing industry, to attain optimum outputs, to maintain employment, and to assist in forward planning in respect of finance, land, materials and skilled labour. I believe that this is an extremely significant initiative which has been taken by this Government. It deserves the wholehearted support of all sections of the industry, all governments and the Opposition. I hope it will result in the housing aspirations of the Australian people being more adequately fulfilled in the future than they ever have been in the past. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report in 3 volumes entitled 'Report on Cyclone Tracy, Effect on Buildings' dated March 1975, together with a statement on that report. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
I would like to say a few words in support of that proposition. The amendments to the Australian Housing Corporation Bill 1975 are in relation to clauses 10 and 49. The amendments have come from the Senate. Clause 10, as amended, is designed predominantly to require the Australian Government to comply with all the laws of the States and Territories. The Opposition in the Senate considered that the Corporation, instead of having regard to the relevant responsibilities of the authorities of Australia, the States and 
Territories, local government bodies and other interested bodies, should, except as provided by the proposed Act or the Defence Service Homes Act, be required to comply with all laws of the States and Territories in which it operates. Its amendment to that effect was agreed to. It is acceptable to the Government. I am quite happy to see that amendment incorporated in the legislation. There does not seem to be any problem with this matter because it has always been the practice of the Australian Government, particularly in respect to the defence service homes legislation, which is to be administered by the Housing Corporation, to meet the requirements of State and local government authorities. 
The second amendment, which relates to clause 49 of the Bill, concerns whether it should be asserted affirmatively that the Australian Government should not acquire by compulsory process any land that is the Crown land of a State. All I want to say about that is that the Opposition in the Senate put forward the view that clause 49 ( 1 ) of the Bill, which provided for the Corporation, with the approval of the Minister, compulsorily to acquire the Crown land of a State, should be amended. The Government indicated in the Senate that it was prepared- to accept this amendment with the proviso that the provision which has always existed in the Defence Service Homes Act whereby the Director has power to acquire land in a State should be retained. In other words, we acknowledged the merit of the proposition put forward by the Opposition in the Senate and, since there has been no problem in respect of this matter in the operation of the Defence Service Homes Act, the view was put forward, contended and acquiesced in by the Opposition in the Senate that we should not affect or in any way alter the arrangements which have operated under the Defence Service Homes Act over many years. So I am happy to say that the amendments, which were supported unanimously in another place, in fact, have the acquiescence and agreement of the Government. I imagine that they will not be likely to attract much contentious argument in the House of Representatives. 
I would like to make one or two very brief comments upon what the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has just said. In his reference to clause 10 of the Bill he expressed grave concern that the Bill proposed that the Australian Governmernt need not comply with all the laws of the States and Territories. It seems to me that the honourable gentleman has talked with a forked tongue in relation to this matter in that the provision has been in operation for many years- I should imagine that it was in operation for the 23 years in which the Liberal-Country Party Government, of which he was a supporter, was in office- being incorporated as it was in the defence service homes legislation. So it is quite amazing that this new-found concern has manifested itself. It was not an evil provision for all those years. In fact, it was effectively available, without any challenge, and it is significant to note that it was not invoked. It has not been used by the Government since then. But it is amazing what can become evil under a Labor Government and what remains innocuous under a Liberal-Country Party Government. 
I would like to say something similar in respect of clause 49 of the Bill in relation to the capacity that the Australian Government has under certain legislation and which it was proposed to have under this legislation to acquire compulsorily land owned by a State. The honourable gentleman has, probably for the first time, expressed concern about this matter, which also has been enshrined not only in the defence service homes legislation but also in the Lands Acquisition Act, which remains there at this moment and which has been there for decades. What I want is not just token opposition that is obviously designed to score some little debating point for the benefit of people who do not know much about these things. I want to see some evidence of a consistent application of principles. I think that the Opposition is going to find it very difficult to argue that the Australian Government should not have power to acquire land from anybody in the public interest under, for example, the Lands Acquisition Act. I suppose the honourable gentleman is aware that although this need not and will not be operative under this legislation, if the Housing Corporation or any other instrumentality of the Australian Government wanted to acquire land it could go ahead and acquire it anyway under the Lands Acquisition Act. So if there is ever a change of government the incoming government would have an obligation, if it intends to give effect to the principles the Opposition has espoused, to give effect to something it denied for the 23 years it was in office. 
Finally, the honourable gentleman said that this is a bad Bill. I know that that is a generalisation that is hardly appropriate to make in the Committee stage of legislation, but let me assure him of this fact: I have painstakingly gone around this country talking to the people who are most deeply involved in the housing industrythe lending institutions, the master builders' organisations, the housing industry organisations and the like- and I have found a great deal of enthusiasm for this legislation. I have no doubt that it will bring great benefit to the people of Australia because it is the most significant housing legislation that has been enacted in any Australian Parliament for some 30 years. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1 July 1974, the Department of Housing and Construction has approached the following architectural firms to discuss plans for Australian Government hospitals: 
Yuncken Freeman Architects Pty Ltd Conrad, Gargett and Partners Gordon Jenkins and Associates Llewellyn Davies. 
See(l). 
The Department of Housing and Construction has the task of conducting feasibility studies into the construction of Australian Government hospitals, and in the course of these studies, has called on Yuncken Freeman Architects Pty Ltd. Conrad Gargett and Partners and Gordon Jenkins and Associates for drafting assistance on a minor scale. 
Llewellyn Davies were engaged by the Department of Housing and Construction on a fixed fee basis to review the planning for a proposed hospital in the Australian Capital Territory. 
No commission has been entered into with private architects to prepare final plans and specifications for hospitals in Brisbane, Sydney or Melbourne. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No official statistics of bricklaying rates are produced by my Department or by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The rates listed below are the average from a sample of Bills of Quantity or Schedules of Rates for successful tenders for Australian Government building projects in the capital cities. No reliable data are available for Hobart although rates for home building are generally thought to have risen in that city from about $65 in the September quarter of 1970 to about $ 1 00 in the September quarter of 1 974. It should be borne in mind that rates can vary between different types of construction such as house building, office building, etc., and may also vary within each type of construction. The following figures, however, provide a general guide to bricklaying rates generally: 
-At the time of the Brisbane floods, a very considerable number of people were covered by the defence service homes insurance scheme. I think honourable gentlemen may recall the fact that policy claims were met with the utmost expedition. That incident exposed to a great number of people the virtue of the defence service homes insurance scheme. As a result, there was an inundation of inquiries from people who were responding to a suggestion that the defence service homes insurance scheme should be expanded to accommodate the needs of people other than exservicemen. The premium rates are very advantageous and compare favourably with those of private insurance companies. I think the rate represents about one-eighth of premium rates charged by private insurance companies. Of course the defence service homes insurance scheme has stood on its own; it has been selfsustaining. Even the cost of administration has been attributed to the scheme. 
Having said all that, I must acknowledge that the defence service homes insurance scheme is no longer under my administration. It has been transferred to the administration of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I suppose that everyone will be very excited at the announcement which he has made to the effect that the Government intends establishing an Australian Government insurance office. After some time has elapsed, it will incorporate a wide range of insurance. I have no doubt that even though the defence service homes insurance scheme will stand independently, it will act virtually as an agent for the Australian Government insurance office, that it will continue to run efficiently and effectively, and that its principles will be conferred upon a very large number of potential beneficiaries. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision to terminate the home savings grant scheme after introduction of the scheme for tax deductibility of mortgage interest on housing loans. As announced by the then Treasurer in his Budget Speech on 21 August 1973, home savings grants will continue to be paid to young people who had commenced to save in the acceptable forms on or before that date and who contract to buy or build, or commence construction of, their homes on or before 31 December 1976. The Bill provides for this and other consequential amendments necessary to terminate the scheme. 
The Principal Act at present provides that an application should be lodged within 12 months after a person's prescribed date, that is, the date he contracts to buy or build his home or com.mences its construction, but the period for lodgment may be extended, in special circumstances, for a further period. To avoid prolonged administration of the scheme through the receipt of applications for an indefinite period of time after 3 1 December 1976, the Bill provides for an absolute final date-31 December 1977- for the lodgment of applications, that is, a period of twelve months after the latest possible prescribed date. Applications for home savings grants will not be accepted after that date. 
Several requirements in the Act may be met after a person's prescribed date and, indeed, after an application has been lodged. For example, a person need not be married at the date he contracts to buy or build bis home but, to qualify for a grant, he must marry within 12 months after that date or within such further period as may be allowed in special circumstances. Similarly, before a grant may be paid, an applicant must produce evidence that acceptable savings have been held over the required period, that the land on which the house is built will be owned by him, that he has adequate finance to complete the purchase or construction of the house and, in the case of an owner builder, that he has made substantial building progress on the home. It is usually expected that these requirements will be fulfilled within 12 months after the person's prescribed date but the principal Act has permitted extension of this period in special circumstances. The Bill provides that the final date for meeting any outstanding requirements may not be extended beyond 30 June1978, that is, a period of 18 months after the latest possible prescribed date. 
I take this opportunity to explain to the House that persons who meet the eligibility tests for tax deductibility of mortgage interest and home savings grants may receive both benefits. The Government has conducted an extensive campaign through the media to inform eligible persons who are repaying housing loans of their right to claim deductions under the pay as you earn system in respect of mortgage interests. 
The Bill proposes other amendments to the principal Act, the most important of which concern the acceptability of savings held in Papua New Guinea. The Act at present permits savings held with branches of Australian banks in an external Territory of Australia to be treated as acceptable savings for purposes of the home savings grant scheme. Unless appropriate amendments are made, changes to the banking system in Papua New Guinea associated with the granting of self-government may prejudice the possible eligibility of some Australians temporarily working and saving in Papua New Guinea. Furthermore, under the terms of the present Act savings held with any bank in Papua New Guinea would cease to be acceptable for purposes of the home savings grant scheme on and after the date of independence. To overcome these problems, the Bill proposes amendments that will ensure that savings held with any bank in Papua New Guinea in forms similar to those acceptable in the case of banks in Australia will continue to be acceptable until 31 December 1976, that is, until the last day on which savings held in Australia will be acceptable. 
Consequent upon the amalgamation of the former Departments of Housing and of Works as the Department of Housing and Construction on 30 November 1973, the Bill proposes appropriate drafting amendments to up-date references to the former Department of Housing. The Bill also makes provision to enable the detailed administration of the home savings grant scheme to be transferred if desired from the Department to the Australian Housing Corporation. It is intended that the Secretary to the Department will continue to be responsible, subject to any directions of the Minister, for the general administration of the scheme, but that the Secretary should have authority to delegate the necessary power to conduct the day to day operations of the scheme to the Corporation. 
I have arranged for the distribution to honourable members of notes explaining the purpose of each clause and sub-clause of the amending Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
-I favour this scheme and in fact have advocated it for a long time. Primarily it involves making project loans available to builders rather than individual loans to individual home seekers. It seems to me that many advantages could accrue from such a rearrangement involving the utilisation of permanent building society funds. It would offer very great advantages over the one-off way of building houses which incurs very high costs. For example, there could be advantages resulting from the wholesale acquisition of land. There could be cost savings in the legal area and the architectural area. I think the scheme would also offer advantages in the sense that proper town planning principles, architectural approaches to housing development and the provision of desirable aesthetic factors in housing estates could be brought to bear. If building society funds were to be made available to project builders it would be important to make certain that funds made available at such concessional or advantageous rates would be passed on to the home purchaser in the long term. 1 am very pleased to see that this matter is now being considered by the building societies. For some time the proposal has been inhibited by the State authorities, which in fact administer permanent building societies, but I know that the attitudes which are now being expressed and which follow on my own advocacy of this scheme are likely to receive consideration from the State authorities. If that consideration is based on the merit of the scheme I think the scheme could well be advanced in the near future. 
-The $115m made available for the purpose of the defence service homes scheme has been expended due to the fact that the Government has greatly improved the scheme, increasing the amount of loan from $9,000 to $15,000 since it has been in office and greatly extending eligibility for the scheme in respect to members of the permanent forces, single men, single women and a limited range of national servicemen. In addition to those improvements, the scheme has become more attractive because the Government has introduced a transfer of loan scheme in certain circumstances. It is a fact, as I have said, that the $ 1 1 5m has now been expended except for certain moneys which must be retained to meet progress payments to building contractors. However, Appropriation Bill (No. 6) which is before the Parliament at the present time provides for an additional amount of $ 15m for the purpose of the defence service homes scheme. That Bill has already been approved by this House and is awaiting the attention of another House. I understand that if the legislation reaches the stage of having the acquiescence of both Houses of the Parliament, the funds which will be necessary to eliminate any waiting time will become available. 
The honourable member has given the impression that there has been a long delay. I hasten to assure him that that is not the case at all. It is only a recent development that funds have become unavailable to meet such claims, and it would seem to me to be a reasonable expectation that the defence service homes scheme should again be operative in an effective way immediately the Senate passes the legislation. Whether the continued demand on the scheme will bring about a problem later has yet to be seen. Of course the Government will have to face up to that situation if it happens to arise. 
-I suppose the simple answer to the question is yes. In fact, I say yes, I will be very happy to hand the matter for investigation by my colleague the Attorney-General. It would be injudicious of me to say anything in regard to this company that might be derogatory or critical, without proper investigation; I would say that there have been companies in this field which have attracted a great deal of criticism and animosity. In fact, in Queensland, where such companies went under investigation, a number of them were disallowed and were prohibited for some time from continuing operations. A number of common complaints exist concerning similar companies They take the form that there are cases where preferential shares are held and the people holding those shares derive the early loans, so that others who are in a Starr Bowkett kind of situation have to wait in many instances some years- maybe even 10 years- or near the end of the lending period before they can attract any support for their housing aspiration. Also, a number of traps exist in some of these companies arrangements which involve forfeiture, so the unsuspecting investor loses his equity, often to very great disadvantage. I suggest that people who are interested in the subject could be well advised to read a series of articles published by my Department's magazine, 'Shelter', where the case for and against has been effectively put. In general terms, people would be very well advised to look carefully before they avail themselves of these services. I might also add that the legislation governing such organisations is in the field of State rather than Federal administration. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable a grant of up to $200,000 to be made available to Victoria for the construction of urgently needed flood mitigation works at Whitehead's Creek, Seymour, Victoria. This represents 40 per cent of the estimated cost of the works and the grant is conditional upon the State of Victoria providing the remainder of the expenditure required. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  visited Seymour during the 1974 flood he suggested immediate steps be taken to prevent floods hitting the town, and expressed a desire for a joint Australian Government and Victorian Government undertaking to enlarge the waterway capacity of the broad and standard gauge railway crossing at Whitehead's Creek. Subsequently, the Victorian Government requested financial assistance from the Australian Government under the national water policy to carry out flood mitigation work at Whitehead 's Creek. 
The town of Seymour was subject to disastrous floods from Whitehead's Creek in 1973 and 1974, causing loss of life and considerable damage. Flash flooding from Whitehead's Creek had not previously been known in the town, and these recent occurrences have caused considerable social distress, particularly among the older residents. The flood of February 1973 caused an urgent situation when the rail bridges of the Melbourne to Albury and Sydney lines at Whitehead's Creek could not cope with flood waters, causing rapid back-up flooding in the older residential portion of Seymour, and breaching of the railway and the High Street road bridge. The flood mitigation works include provision of enlarged waterways through the existing railway embankment and at a number of road bridges and culverts plus some river improvement and flood protection works. Construction has commenced on the flood mitigation works which are estimated to cost about $500,000. 
The Australian Government has considered that assistance for flood mitigation works for Seymour is a matter of urgency to greatly reduce the risk of disastrous flooding which might occur in the future. This Bill to provide financial assistance for these works is warranted, and this is in keeping with the Australian Government's realistic and constructive approach towards flood mitigation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question was answered on 8 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1311). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question was answered on 8 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1321). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The terms and conditions under which management fees are charged by terminating building or cooperative housing socities are regulated by the State authorities responsible for the operations of these societies. Charges do vary from State to State, and current maximum charges are as follows- 
New South Wales- 5.5 cents per $ 1 20 share per month 
Victoria- 5 cents per $ 100 share per month 
Queensland- 5 cents per $ 100 share per month 
Western Australia- 6 cents per $ 100 share per month 
Tasmania- 5 cents per $100 share per month 
State Banks do not charge a separate management fee, as such. The rate of interest fixed for a housing loan includes the element of administration cost involved. 
Those building societies and State Banks obtaining funds from the Home Builders' Account arrangements of the 1973-1974 Housing Agreement are subject to a provision in the Agreement that the amount charged in respect of a loan to a home owner by way of interest and management fee shall not exceed the equivalent, calculated with annual rests, of 5 per centum per annum of the amount of the loan that for the time being remains to be repaid. 
in replyThe legislation is in very simple terms. It is basically and primarily a matter of winding up the Homes Savings Grant Act, which has never been regarded as an Act of high principle by the present Government and was not regarded as such over the years that the present Government was in Opposition. The fact of the matter is that homes savings grants will continue to be paid to young people who commence to save in an acceptable form on or before the prescribed date and who contract to buy or build or commence construction of their homes on or before 31 December 1976. The Bill makes provision for the closing down of the scheme. After the end of December 1976 it allows for another 12 months virtually for the winding up of outstanding applications. It otherwise provides some amendments to facilitate the participation in the scheme by people who use banks in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
So it is a simple proposition and of course it is certainly not the great and momentous matter in housing that honourable members opposite have tried to give the impression it is. In fact it is an infinitesimal matter and one of extremely limited consequence for home ownership in Australia. The Homes Savings Grant Act was introduced in July 1964 by the Menzies Government, and if my memory serves me correctly, by the Honourable Leslie Bury, the then Minister for Housing. At that time it was disparaged by the Press and by almost anybody who was discerning in the housing industry. The most interesting aspect of the whole thing was that although a limited number of people were eligible under the scheme- in fact the more privileged people were eligible under the scheme- the cost of building and the cost of land seemed automatically to open up to accommodate the increased funds made available through the homes savings grant scheme, not just for the people eligible but for all the others, including those who had no capacity to save at the prescribed rate and the prescribed amounts over the 3-year period. So the scheme obviously was benefiting the more affluent and doing nothing at all to assist people with limited or no saving capacity. 
We never regarded it as a scheme worth sustaining. We declared our intention in July 1964 to get rid of it at the first opportunity. In fact the scheme was so loaded with glaring anomalies one would almost need a Queen's Counsel, a lawyer, legal advice to get into it. Honourable members who have been in this place for some little time would know about the incessant deluge of amendments to the legislation which were necessary to try to make it even a little more tolerable but it has still remained intolerable ever since it was introduced. When one looks at the reasons for the 3,000 to 4,000 rejections under the scheme each year one starts to get some sort of insight into the anomalous nature of it. One of the reasons given is that the value of the home is in excess of the statutory limit. Even at the time the scheme was introduced we had a common statutory limit prevailing all over Australia as though the cost of land is the same all over Australia. Of course it is not. It was not any more then than it is today. For example, as the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  could tell honourable members, one can buy a quarter acre block of land in very close proximity to the centre of Adelaide for between $5,000 and $6,000. 
-And in Canberra. But in my electorate, the Hughes electorate some 20 miles south of Sydney, one would be lucky to get a block of land for less than $20,000. Yet from the time this scheme was introduced the previous Government had the same limitation applying for the house and land. Of course there are great disparities in the standards of houses and the cost of houses in various parts of Australia, let alone the cost of land. Everybody knows that it is a lot dearer to build a house in Darwin, for example. Everybody knows that one can build a house on stilts with a timber frame in parts of Queensland whereas on the other hand one is often required to build a brick house in Melbourne or in Sydney. So ridiculous anomalies of this kind have prevailed right through the period of operation of the scheme. Another principal reason for rejection of application is that acceptable savings have not been held for the minimum period of 3 years. We know the trouble there. Many young people have not been properly informed and there is a break in their saving period. In fact they were required to have the savings in very carefully prescribed forms of saving. Thousands and thousands of applications over the years have been thrown out as a result of that technical provision. 
Another reason for rejection is the failure to meet the 3-year residential requirement. When one looks at the needs of the migrant people coming into this country- their housing problems are probably among the most serious of all- one realises that their problem cannot be assisted until they have been here for 3 years, living in what- a Commonwealth hostel, a tent, a garage? This is an unaccountable situation. The fact is that from 1964 to the end of 1972 the Liberal-Country Party Government put up with these incredible anomalies and probably regarded them as being beyond improvement. If they were not beyond improvement, why was . something not done about them in all that time? 
There are a number of other reasons why applications have been rejected- ownership of another home; failure to lodge an application within the prescribed period; being over 36 years of age. What the devil has it to do with anything whether someone has turned 36 years of age? I have been inundated with complaints since I have been the Minister, and certainly during the time I was representing these cases as a back bencher, from people who were older than 36 and who explained to me that they had been required to spend years in the Army and had never been able to settle down in one place and . purchase a home, or had spent years away as a school teacher or a clergyman being posted from one place to another. The honourable gentleman has asked why something is not done about that anomaly and the other anomalies to which I have been referring. Why did he and his Government not do something about it between 1964 and 1972? 
Other reasons for rejection of applications were that savings were not held in acceptable form and that home finance was being obtained from Commonwealth subsidised sources. If there . . was an element of subsidy through a housing commission, the applicant would not receive any benefit. It seems to me that the scheme is beyond repair in any case. It is based on an inequitable and unprincipled premise that the Government is bound to give more to those who have more and who can save more than to other people who lack that capacity. This Government wants to get rid of that scheme and replace it, not just by the tax deductibility scheme but also by a whole range of initiatives which it is taking in respect of housing. If one compares the homes savings grant with the scheme of tax deductibility on mortgage interest rates one realises that the former is certainly inferior. For example, the homes savings grant scheme has been involving the Government in the expenditure of about $20m a year. Tax deductibility will run to something like $130m a year. So it is a much bigger scheme in terms of expenditure. The Government will be giving the home purchasing public a lot more through the scheme for tax deductibility on mortgage interest rates. 
-The honourable gentleman says something to the effect: 'Once they get into a house you assist them with tax deductibility'. Of course that is the case, but it is a similar circumstance to the one that applies under the homes savings grant scheme because the Government does not give people anything under that scheme until they have entered into a contract to build or buy and until they have clearly demonstrated their capacity to purchase their home. The honourable gentleman says that this is at the expense of people who are paying rent. The homes savings grant scheme did nothing for the people who were paying rent. In fact there is nothing that the Liberal-Country Party Government did in the way of extending consideration to people paying rent. Honourable members will be pleased to know that under the recently established Housing Corporation we will have an opportunity to do something very worthwhile in that regard. 
When one looks at the number of people who have been assisted by the homes savings grant scheme on an annual basis- in the vicinity of 40 000 families- one can see that here again the benefit is extremely limited compared with the tax deductibility scheme in that close to 1.5 million famines will benefit, not only once but every year. There is a difference between 40 000 families on the one hand, and 1.5 million families on the other hand. Those who benefited most of all under the homes savings grant scheme received $750. Many of those 40 000 who benefited received much smaller proportions of the maximum amount of $750 that could be made available. Under the tax deductibility scheme there will be a yearly recurring benefit. For example, for a taxpayer earning $7,400 a year with an outstanding building society loan of $15,000 the benefit is likely to be approximately $400 each year. So this is clearly advantageous in many ways. 
Under the homes savings grant scheme the grant was paid without regard to the needs of the recipient, but under the tax deductibility scheme there will be a sliding scale. Those who receive no more than $4,000 will receive the maximum benefit. Then there is a diminishing benefit until it runs out at $ 1 4,000. There is no age limit under the mortgage tax deductibility scheme as there is under the homes savings grant scheme. Under the new scheme there is no discrimination against single people as there is under the old scheme. There is no limit in respect to the valuation of a home under the new scheme whereas under the old scheme there is a limit of $22,500 on a home. The homes savings grant scheme provisions are such that the funds made available do not have to have any regard for the need to allocate the benefit for the repayment of a loan. Many people have bought motor cars with the homes savings grant. Others have bought furniture, jewellery, fur coats and aU kinds of things. But the deduction given under the tax deductibility scheme will clearly relate to the home situation. 
There are many advantages in this scheme which is only one of the schemes being introduced to assist the home seeking public. We know that there are problems affecting the housing industry and that most of them are the direct product and sequel of the fact that our predecessors, including many of those who sit opposite - 
-The honourable gentleman laughs. I am not surprised that he laughs because I do not think he has ever studied the figures relating to the money supply in this country. Can he or the honourable member for Boothby challenge me when I say that in the 10 months preceding the 1972 election the LiberalCountry Party Government increased the money supply by something like 26 per cent, thus forcing a great boom in the housing scene, thus providing a level of money that had no relationship to the availability of manpower and material? Does the honourable gentleman not know that that is the kind of factor that gives rise to stop and go in the housing industry? Honourable members opposite bellyache, cringe and go on here with all their concern about home seekers but they ought to understand that they are responsible for the situation on which the present Government has had to act so that it can redress the situation effectively and bring home ownership within the reach of the people.  (Quorum formed).  Obviously it hurts when we pin down the responsibility. The honourable gentleman was forced to take away from me some of the limited time I had in which to speak. 
I will conclude my remarks by saying that there is a very considerable improvement in the housing industry as evidenced by the complete range of statistics that is now available. I will not cite the figures now except to say that building approvals during March increased by 1 9 per cent over those for the month of February. I believe that savings bank approvals for home building in the March quarter were the highest in the country's history. Certainly, they were 31 per cent higher than those in the December quarter of last year and 79 per cent higher than those in the March quarter of last year. As a result of the very wide range of initiatives taken by this Government in the housing scene, we are seeing an improvement in the housing situation. It is unquestionably the fact that as a result of substituting the tax deductibility scheme on mortgage interest rates for the homes savings grant scheme and as a result of the Australian Housing Corporation innovation, the benefits of which are yet to be seen, the people who are building or buying a home in Australia will be advantaged considerably. They will also be advantaged by the fact that they have an Australian Labor Party Government on the Treasury bench in Canberra which is prepared to take initiatives in a crisis in contrast to those honourable members who sit opposite and who in every desperate downturn when in government failed to be effective in discharging their responsibilities to the home seeking public. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-I well remember the honourable gentleman's adjournment speech, which I regarded as intimidatory in the sense that it was an attempt to interfere with the properly established tendering process and to bring favourable consideration to a tenderer whom he apparently favoured. I made the position very clear in my reply to the honourable member's adjournment speech. On that occasion I contended that I regarded his action not only as unprecedented but also as quite contemptible. I strongly discourage the tendency for members of Parliament to interfere in well established tendering processes which take into account the merits of tenders and the capacity of the tenderer to perform the work. The honourable gentleman was putting forward that there should be discrimination against tenderers on the grounds that they either derive from or have some association with companies overseas. That is not the premise upon which such decisions are made. Moreover, the honourable gentleman ought to be aware that in this matter, which is associated with the pumping system of the Googong Dam, my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has the final prerogative in relation to the selection of the tender after having received advice from the Department of Housing and Construction as to the respective merits of all the tenders concerned. I do not know what point the honourable gentleman is making, except that it is very clear that he is grovelling and pandering for votes in his electorate by trying to influence a decision in favour of a tender from his area. 
On 19 February the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  raised the question of tenders for the pumping apparatus for 4 sets of pumps for the Googong Dam. He was very anxious at that time to make out a case to the effect that a company in his electorate should be awarded the contract. Apparently he was taking the view that it should be awarded the contract in any circumstances. 
-Of course I let him know. It is very difficult to accept such a contention, particularly when one has regard for the fact that the honourable gentleman would not be in a position to know anything about the relative merits of the tenderers or their capacity to perform the work. So I took the view that it was an unwarranted interference with the tendering process when the honourable member engaged in the unprecedented and, in my view, unseemly process of touting for one tenderer in the situation that I have described. I must confess that in the period that I have had responsibility for these things nobody else has approached such a matter in such a way. It is not to say that the virtues of particular tenderers have not been put to my Department and indeed to myself, but for one to contend that for the reasons enunciated by the honourable member for Bendigo- they were about Australian employment- that a contract had to go to a particular tenderer seems to me an unreasonable proposition. 
The fact of the matter is that tenders have been called and contracts have been awarded. In fact I wrote to the  President  of the Australian Pump Manufacturers Association,  Mr A.  G. Scott, on 13 May and advised him to this effect: 
I refer to your letter dated 22 April, 1975. By now you will have received my letter of 5 May, 1975 advising you that the lowest priced tender submitted by Allpumps Pry, Brooklyn, Victoria, for supply of four pumpsets for the Googong Pumping Station, A.C.T., at a total cost of $326,500 has been accepted. 
The fact of the matter is that 4 tenders were received and they ranged from approximately $262,000 to about $459,000-in all a differential of $196,598. It seems to me to be quite unreasonable for the honourable gentleman or anybody else to contend that you should necessarily take the lowest tender or the highest tender or to say you just had to take a particular tenderer because he happened to have the virtue of employing people in a particular electorate. So this company has been regarded by my Department as the most satisfactory tenderer with the best price. Taking into account the combination of those 2 things the advising departments mulled this whole thing over. There is a system which was set up by the previous Government and which has been in operation for many years under which all the departments concerned take into account various considerations- such matters as trade, employment and even foreign relations. Having done that they come to a conclusion as to who should be awarded the tender. In this case the departments of Customs, Labor and Immigration, Manufacturing Industry, the Treasury, Overseas Trade and my own department were involved. 
There are many considerations here. The honourable gentleman seems to take the view that in every situation a tender should be awarded to Australian companies, but that is not done in Australia and has not been done in Australia over the years. Fortunately it is not done in other parts of the world in that other countries do not exclude Australian companies. Many Australian contractors benefit very considerably as a result. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman is aware that there is a content of Russian pumping equipment in this tender and in some of the other tenders that were received. I gather that the honourable gentleman takes the view that in no circumstances should we ever use an Australian company which utilises Russian equipment to any degree. I put it to the House that that is a most foolhardy, reckless and irresponsible stance to take. If one examines the trade figures between Australia and the Soviet Union it will readily become apparent that there is a need to correct the glaring imbalance that operates at present. Of course* the imbalance is very heavily in favour of Australia. 
The honourable member for Bendigo comes from a rural electorate. I have no doubt that he would have regard for the best interests of the rural people who live and work there, particularly those engaged in the wool industry. I want to indicate to him the extent to which he can impair his and his constituents' prospects by taking such a reckless and foolhardy attitude of excluding Russian trade from this country or excluding an element of Russian participation in construction tendering processes. The value of wool exports to the Soviet Union during 1973-74 was $147m. The total value of exports to the Soviet Union in 1973-74 was $154m. The imports from the Soviet Union to Australia in that year were valued at $5.9m. We readily see the enormous imbalance that operated in 1973-74. Let me cite the imbalance of trade in Australia's favor in each of the last five years, starting with 1969-70: $48m; $60m; $80m; $123m and $148m. Clearly one could not continue to export goods in 1973-74 to the value of $148m and to import goods worth only $5.9m without having some regard for the sensitive balance and relationship about which the Department of Overseas Trade is so concerned and about which it is being so practical and effective. For Australia to declare that it would exclude Soviet tenderers from the kind of situation that I have described would be the height of folly. I suppose that I have used some harsh words in the several exchanges that I have had with the honourable member for Bendigo, firstly on 19 February and then today in response to a question which he raised with me. 
I know that represents a prospect which will only make the imbalance of trade even greater than I have described. What I want to say to the honourable gentleman is that I can understand his having regard for the prospects of a manufacturing industry in his own electorate. But I think we can cheapen the whole process when we come touting for them in such an ungainly way on the floor of the Parliament. There are other honourable members who raise with me in an appropriate and delicate way extenuating circumstances with regard to tenders. I believe the honourable member would have preserved the protocol and all the practices that have been operating over the years if he too had followed that well established course. For my part, having regard to all the circumstances, the reputation of the tenderer, the fact that his tender is the lowest, I am satisfied that the awarding of the contract to that tenderer is beyond reproach in every way. I refuse to acknowledge the need to exclude companies which have some overseas content in the tender that they submit. 
-It has recently come to my attention that, in keeping with policy of many years standing, preference is given to people other than blue collar workers- putting it the other way, blue collar workers are excluded from eight of the nine government guest houses in Canberra. Preference is given to salaried public servants, teachers and their equivalents in the statutory authorities. I understand that out of about 3000 guest house beds in the Australian Capital Territory fewer than 400 are available to blue collar workers. Those beds are at the Ainslie guest house, which can probably be described as the least pretentious of government hostels in Canberra. I regard this discrimination as indefensible and very much in need of correction. I have already initiated action, with the cooperation of those of my colleagues who are responsible, to redress this situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) As the honourable member is aware, the Defence Service Homes Act 1974 (No. 125 of 1974) which came into operation on 6 December 1974 effected a number of significant improvements to the Defence Service Homes Scheme, including an extension of eligibility for benefits under the Scheme and an increase in the maximum lending limit from $12,000 to $15,000. To meet the cost of these improvements, an amount of $1 15m was provided for Defence Service Homes in 1974-75 compared with allocations of $102m for 1973-74 and $76m for 1972-73. However the demand for loans resulting from the improvements to the Scheme has been greater than was originally estimated and provision was made in Appropriation Bill No. 6 for the allocation of a further $ 1 5 m for Defence Service Homes. It was expected that Appropriation Bill No. 6 would be passed before the adjournment of Parliament on 23 April 1975 but after the passage of the Bill through this House the Senate adjourned without completing consideration of the Bill. As a result of the delay by the Senate in dealing with the Bill, it was necessary to defer the settlement of some 1000 applications for Defence Service Homes loans. 
As soon as the additional funds provided for in the Bill become available following the passing of the Bill by the Senate on 13 May 1975 action will be taken to proceed with the settlement of the applications deferred as a result of the delay in the passing of the Bill. 
-Last April the Government took a firm policy about the need to provide adequate access for disabled persons to government buildings. A revised technical instruction entitled 'Access for the Disabled in Government Buildings' has been issued by my Department. This has been drawn up by the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled and the Standards Association of Australia. The effect of this instruction is that all client departments are now required to comply with this code in the preparation of their designs for public buildings. The code has particular application to such matters as access doors, handrails, ramps and toilets. I might say that steps are now being taken to apply the code to existing buildings. In addition to that, efforts are being made to encourage the co-operation of State governments adequately to upgrade buildings along the lines I have mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No instruction has been issued to my Department to employ apprentices in the metropolitan areas in preference to rural areas. My Department is conscious of the need to give a lead on apprenticeship training. In this regard, the honourable member would be interested to learn that my Department presently employs 641 apprentices, which is about 30 per cent more than when the Government came to office. Of that number of apprentices, some 179 are employed in nonmetropolitan areas. This is a high figure when it is considered that my Department does not maintain a large workforce in country areas. 
I would also mention that in the States in which my Department does have a large non-metropolitan workforce, the ratio of non-metropolitan to metropolitan apprentices is much higher. In Queensland, for example, my Department employs as many apprentices in country areas as it does in the Brisbane metropolitan area. 
-I have seen such a report. In fact, the one I saw was headed: 'Curb on Home Loan Spreads'. I regard that heading as quite misleading and well away from the facts of the position. What the Reserve Bank of Australia has called for is a stabilisation of the current lending for housing. It has taken the view, in effect, that there is no need for expansion of bank lending to offset the fall represented by the exhaustion of the $150m which was made available to the banks by the Australian Government. It should be realised by honourable gentlemen that in the March quarter the number of loans approved exceeded 54 000 which was the highest level ever, except for that extremely dangerous level which the policies of our predecessors sparked off in 1972-73. The Government has taken a number of initiatives, including the allocation of that $150m through the banking system and also, of course, the change from the 60-40 ratio to the 50-50 ratio. That is an extremely significant input which has contributed to the renewed buoyancy of the housing industry. 
We believe that the policies that are now in train are effectively tailored to restore full activity. There are parts of Australia in which there is very little unemployment in the building industry. To impose further money demands in those areas would have disastrous consequences. We are anxious to avoid a return to the problems which we inherited after the election of the Labor Government in 1972. Honourable gentlemen will realise that between 1971 and 1973 the number of loans made available almost doubled; it rose from 135 000 to 245 000. This was the roller coaster process that put the housing industry in very great difficulty. Our predecessors, with a real irresponsibility, took the industry right up the hill, up to the peak, and sent it down the other side. We have had the job of restoring this equilibrium. We are very anxious now to take proper economic measures which will keep the restoration process effectively and properly under way. 
(2.38)- I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Second three year program for the improvement and maintenance of the Stuart and Barkly Highways in the Northern Territory. (Quorum formed) I do not know why the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Sinclair)  wants to obstruct my progress in this matter. The proposal is the second 3-year program for the highways and includes aprroximately 325 kilometres of pavement strengthening and widening, approximately 235 kilometres of road realignment, and the construction of 14 bridges, besides routine maintenance and pavement resealing. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $34.6m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think the point of order raised by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  clearly demonstrates the extreme state of confusion which has characterised his entire approach to this legislation and the whole question of housing policy. The honourable gentleman has not even learnt that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation is not part of my administration, that it has not been part of it for some time and that I am not responsible for introducing this legislation into the Parliament. I heard him speaking last night in this debate and he was criticising me because I was not sitting at the table and taking charge of the Bill. I think in a fairly embarrassing way he has learnt that this Bill was introduced into this House by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on behalf of the Minister for Reptriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  So that clears up the first misapprehension of the honourable gentleman, and a very important one. 

 His whole speech, divided as it was into 2 parts, was coloured by platitudes and ambiguity. I am not sure where he stands, but I gather he is in favour of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. He does not seem to appreciate that this legislation is of an extremely limited character and that under it the Government does not intend to dispose of that Corporation in any way; rather, it seeks to link it with the new Government insurance body. I want to say something about the housing scene because in his speeches the honourable gentleman has linked the future of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation with the whole question of housing in Australia. Quite frankly, I do not think he has a lot to be proud of, either on his own behalf in respect of the initiation of conceptual attitudes, housing philosophhy or suggestions as to what the government could do, or on behalf of the Party he represents. The fact is that it was an extremely sorry performance from the government which preceded this administration during the 2 3 years it was in office. 
It is true that the housing industry in this country is experiencing some difficulties, as it is in almost every comparable country. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman knows the scene in the United States of America, for example, but there people are encountering such problems with housing that about two-thirds of them have to secure some form of assistance from the national government, the type of assistance that we have been setting the stage to provide for some time, something which was never heard of under the Liberal-Country Party government. The scene in the United States of America is such that the number of flats and condominiums has almost doubled in 12 months and the number of single and individual houses has almost halved. That reflects the increasing cost of housing, the cost of land and the cost of money. In this country we are taking initiatives to meet these problems, initiatives which almost invariably are opposed by the honourable member for Boothby. 
The Government's record is a good one. Australia is coming out of a housing trough and, I suppose, most people in the community and certainly most honourable members would be aware by now that the difficulties which people are encountering with respect to housing result from the mismanagement which occurred in 1972. The honourable member for Boothby laughs. I can understand him laughing because he has never learnt that there is a relationship between money, manpower and materials. He has never come to understand that we cannot do everything with money alone. It is the philosophy of his Party and, I think, his own personal philosophy that money speaks all languages.  His  Party tried that in respect of housing. From 1970-71 to 1972-73 what the previous Government did was provide so much money for housing that the number of loans increased in that period from 135 000 to 245 000. What did that do? That great mass of money descending on materials and manpower simply forced up prices and costs until it was almost impossible to secure tradesmen- bricklayers, carpenters, plumbers, whatever you like- and, of course, the time it took to build houses lengthened. My advisers, who are the same advisers substantially as those who would advise the honourable gentleman if he became the Minister for Housing and Construction, say that any responsible government has to act in such a situation- otherwise the whole problem goes through the roof. 
The Government did act. We have had this periodical trough and we are coming out of it faster than we have done before. There is a cyclical trend in the housing scene, but for the first time we have a government which is doing something about preventing those hills and troughs from occurring. On 21 February we launched nationally the Indicative Planning Council and since then we have launched the State working parties of that council in South Australia, Tasmania and Queensland. I am pleased to be able to say that tomorrow I launch the State working party for New South Wales, with the support of the State Government, as has been the case in each of the States I have mentioned, and with the support of industry which is appreciative of the fact that it now has a Government interested in planning these things. We are going on next to Victoria and Western Australia. It is almost incredible that anyone could believe that all the elements essential to the efficient conduct of the housing industry can come together in a spontaneous and desirable way without planning, so we are planning. 
There are so many things we have done apart from indicative planning. We have conducted inquiries into modern housing techniques, established the Housing Research Council and the Australian Housing Standards Advisory Council. I am not sure whether the honourable gentleman knows what these bodies are really about. We have established a sociology division and a building technology division within the Department of Housing and Construction and have passed, despite the opposition of honourable members opposite, a Bill to establish the Aus.tralian Housing Corporation so that this Government can effectively get into the business of helping people acquire their own homes. In the very near future honourable members wil be seeing significant developments in that regard. The honourable gentleman drivels and croaks and cavils, as Henry Lawson said, 'till your voice goes further than college walls, keep out of the tracks we travel'. What the honourable gentleman should know is something of the relative emphasis and priority given to this housing by this Government as against the previous Government. 
Let me mention a few figures for the sake of comparison. This Government has lifted advances to the States for public housing from $169m to $375m. We have increased the defence service homes allocation from $74m to $11 5m. In place of the homes savings grant scheme for which $21m was allocated in 1972-73, the Government has substituted the tax deductibility scheme for mortgage interest payments which will involve an expenditure in the vicinity not of $20m but of $ 130m a year. The homes savings grants scheme was available as a one-off thing to a limited number of people. The tax deductibility scheme wil be available to all taxpayers whose income does not exceed $14,000. It is a scheme that effectively reduces interest rates by something like 3 per cent for the average wage earner in Australia with an average loan. The expenditure on housing for Aboriginal people has been increased from $ 14.5m under the LiberalCountry Party Government to $142m under the Labor Government. The same sort of thing has happened in regard to many other schemes that one can think of. I have a long list of schemes in front of me, but I do not have time to go through it. We have doubled the annual allocation in respect of the States Grants (Pensioner Dwellings) Act. We have increased the subsidy under the Aged Persons Homes Act from $2 for every $1 to $4 for every $1. There have been reforms the like of which have never been seen in the history of this country. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the affairs of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation to be administered by the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. We acknowledge that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation has done outstanding work over the last decade. As one who has administered the Corporation, I naturally have said eulogistic things about it in this House and in many other places. It has provided assistance to 168 000 families and insured loans in excess of $2,000m. It has assets of $ 15.5m. Of course, it has very adequate reserves to meet all eventualities. What we have said- what the Special Minister of State has said and what the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation said in the other place when introducing the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill- is that we intend to preserve this organisation and to make it effective in every possible regard. Of course, we do not want bits of insurance spreadeagled all over the government spectrum. What an absurd proposition that would be. 
I have had the privilege of administering not only the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation but also the defence service homes insurance scheme. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has been sensible enough to understand that that and everything else associated with insurance ought to come under the one umbrella of expertise and competency so that an efficient and competent organisation can be run in the name of the people of this country. The honourable member for Boothby has proposed, by way of moving a delaying amendment, that the Government should not go ahead and consolidate this organisation into the mainstream of governmental insurance activity. He wants that activity spreadeagled. He wants to contribute to its inevitable destruction. We know the value of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. It has helped to maintain high ratio loans in this country. It insures lenders against loss. So we are not likely to be very partial to the very dubious proposition that has been put forward by the honourable gentleman 
For a couple of minutes at least I want to say something about the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Firstly, I think that the fight is over. I think that most people have really come to understand that there is a great deal of merit in such a scheme. I remember saying some of the first words spoken in this House about the need for such an organisation, such a government initiative, following the Brisbane floods. At that time a very large number of people had been unable to redeem their insurance policies after having waited a long time and were not being treated in a desirable way. As the Minister responsible for administering the defence service homes scheme, I was able to tell the House after the Brisbane floods that that scheme controlled the policies of 200 000 policy holders and that, because of the Brisbane floods, 900 claims had to be met, and were met almost instantaneously, at a cost of $2m. Here we have a scheme which pays its way in every respect. Contrary to the impression that the honourable member for Boothby and other honourable members opposite try to convey from time to time, it is an organisation that stands on its own in an extremely competitive way and that makes its contributions to the fire organisations and does all kinds of other things. 
Do honourable members opposite know what it was able to do? It was able not only to meet those claims in a very responsive way but also to provide premiums at one-eighth to one-quarter of the premium charges made by comparable organisations. The fact of the matter is that the annual premium for policy holders insuring a home for $15,000 was about $20 and the saving on the insurance premium was often in the vicinity of $50 a year. Does the honourable member for Boothby want that kind of consideration to be extended widely to other people, or does he not? Is he more interested in underwriting the foreign owners and controllers of the insurance companies that have the predominant part of the business in this country, or is he concerned about ensuring that people are protected against every eventuality and that they are able to do that at a minimum of cost? That is what we want to know from the honourable gentleman, because that is what this legislation and the principal Bill are all about. 
From our point of view, we intend to make certain that those people who have never been encouraged or given the opportunity to insure in a comprehensive way against the cyclones in Townsville, the floods in Brisbane, the disasters in Darwin, the land subsidences and slips and the bush fires will be able to be covered because the premium rates will be down to bedrock. We will not be exploiting them and taking money from them for these things and putting it into other business ventures. So we say to honourable members opposite: We are proposing the establishment of a Government Insurance Corporation that will represent fair competition. It will cover the great range of natural disasters. It will look after the farmers, who for so long have been neglected by honourable members opposite, as livestock and crop losses will be covered by this Corporation in a way in which no private organisation has ever sought to do. Then, of course, we will be engaging in a rationalisation of all the governmental insurance processes. So there is a great deal to be said for what we are putting forward. . 
As Minister for Housing and Construction I want to assure all the people who invest in housing and who are encouraged to invest in it by the very existence of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation that the Government believes in that Corporation. The honourable member for Boothby said in his speech on this matter last night that the Government is going to take over the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and get it on the cheap. He does not even seem to realise that it is already a government instrumentality. I think he is confused with the Mortgage Guarantee Insurance Corporation, which is the private organisation. This one is the public organisation. We already own it. The present Government has supported it, sustained it and encouraged it. There has been a great increase in the amount of business conducted since the Labor Government was elected. The Labor Government is not going to sap the vitality, sustenance and support from it. We have upheld it. I want the investors of this country to know that it is now going into a more effective arrangement as part of the Government Insurance Corporation. I hope that the fact that additional strength will be derived from that process will cause all the people who invest in housing to feel very confident that their investment is very well secured; in fact it is gilt edged. It will have the great backing of the Australian Government behind it. I hope that further investment will take place in the housing industry and that the home seeking public will receive very great benefit as a result of yet another Labor initiative. 
The returns which are coming in from the various States indicate that the number of housing commencements to be undertaken in the current financial year will represent the highest level in any year since any Australian Government assisted States with the public or welfare housing program. It is estimated that the number of houses to be commenced this year will be in the vicinity of 1 3 600. This is 5000 higher than the number commenced in the previous year. I am sure all honourable members will draw gratification from this fact because a large number of people are still waiting for housing assistance. The increase in percentage terms over the previous year is 65 per cent. This achievement reflects the fact that the previous Liberal Government provided $163m for the public housing program. In the current financial year we will provide not less than $375m. The increase will help to reduce the waiting list which, over the years, has assumed very high proportions. 
-The approval rate that is in evidence now can be regarded only as extremely encouraging. I know that the honourable gentleman's attitude generally is to the effect that one should not take too much cognisance of approvals and that the only figure which really counts is commencements. I trust that he will pardon me for continuing to display optimism in the face of the fact that loan approvals are rising arid running at a very impressive level. He may know that the approval rate for April was 11761 and that it was the highest rate since July 1 974. It represented a 12 per cent rise over the approval rate in March 1975. He asks whether too much of the loans being approved is going towards used housing, or something to that effect. I think there is evidence to show that that has been the case. That is to be expected in circumstances in which the new housing market is affected by rising interest rates, rising land costs and the like. The indications now are that the used housing stock is being cleared out. The approvals from now on are more likely to be oriented to the utilisation of new houses, thus providing a very stimulating effect to the housing industry. It seems to me that the predictions which I have been making for quite some time, to the effect that in the second half of 1975 there will be an effective stimulus for the housing industry, are likely to be fulfilled. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of State Housing Authority dwellings dissected between (a) houses and (b) flats (as such) are not available. The answers to parts (1), (2), (3) and (4) of the question therefore give details of numbers of Government dwellings completed, approved and under construction in the relevant periods dissected between (a) houses and (b) other dwellings. The term 'other dwellings' is defined by the Commonwealth Statistician to include flats, home units, semidetached, or duplex dwellings, and terrace, row or town-house dwellings. 
These figures, published by the Commonwealth Statistician, include State Housing Authority dwellings financed by the Australian Government under the Housing Agreements, Dwellings for Pensioners Schemes, CommonwealthState Housing Agreement (Servicemen) and Aboriginal Housing Schemes or from other State funds as well as those constructed by Australian Government agencies in the States. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of the Housing Interest Rates Committee in Western Australia. 
-I am aware of the waiting list in Tasmania. Of course, the Government has taken effective action to meet the needs of the people who have a dependency on the State Housing Department. The allocation of funds under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement to the State of Tasmania has been increased from $8.8m in 1972-73, when the last Liberal-Country Party Government Budget was presented, to $24.2m in the current financial year. The movement in the housing commencements is to the effect that 596 houses were commenced in Tasmania under that program in 1972-73. This financial year there will be 929 housing commencements. I might add that in terms of per capita assistance Tasmania is doing remarkably well. The Australian average per capita assistance under the Housing Agreement is $28.56 and the Tasmanian average is $60.43. 1 do not think anybody could say that the needs of Tasmania from the standpoint of dependency on the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement are being neglected in any way. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of a telephone exchange at Edgecliff, New South Wales. 
The proposal is for the construction of a new building to cope with the growth and demand for telecommunication facilities in the Edgecliff area. Construction will be of reinforced concrete, founded on rock, with a basement, ground floor and 3 upper floors. The building will be air conditioned. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the committee was $3.4m. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the facility, that the facilities proposed by the Australian Post Office were satisfactory, that the site selected was suitable, that the facility will not adversely affect the local environment, and that the work should proceed to construction. It is recommended that the House concur with the Committee 's report thus allowing planning to proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The Navy requirement for housing for HMAS 'Stirling', the naval base at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia, is for 2 12 houses. As the honourable gentleman would know, there is a requirement to the effect that the State Government must approve the site of such houses for the purpose of making certain that in the event of those houses becoming surplus to the Services they would revert to the State housing authority for housing commission purposes. There has been some disputation between the Navy and the State housing authority as to the location of those houses. It is my understanding that the Navy favoured Rockingham and the Housing Commission favoured Kwinana. My departmental officers went to Perth in March and effected a reconciliation along the line that 100 houses are to be located at Rockingham and another hundred at Kwinana. It is my understanding that the first 1 5 of these houses are to go under construction in the near future. 
-Minister for Housing and Construction) (4.57)- I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions or the PublicWorks Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of Australian Government Centre at Parramatta, New South Wales. 
The proposal involves the construction of a modern office complex with a view to accommodating 5000 Australian Government office users. The development will make provision for civic, community and staff amenity facilities and for retail purposes. The office accommodation will be concrete frame structures designed so as to provide flexible general purpose office areas for Australian Government usage. The complex will be designed for minimum maintenance with floors being carpeted in office areas. Acoustic treatment will be provided to reduce the general noise level. The buildings will be air conditioned and fire protection will be installed. Provision will be made for basement parking for official vehicles. The estimated cost of the proposed work at the time of the Committee's investigation was: 
2 stage development, $46m; 
b) single stage development, $45 m. 
The Committee concluded that there was a need for additional Australian Government owned office accommodation in the Sydney area; that this proposal will contribute to satisfying the need; that Parramatta offers an opportunity to decentralise; and that this decentralisation will benefit the Government and its employees, the local population, business, and city council. The Committee saw a need for the community facilities proposed to help meet the existing shortcomings, and to provide some retail facilities in the centre to meet, in part, the requirements of employees and the general public. The Committee concluded that the community facilities should be financially self supporting and that the retail facilities should be profitable to the Government. 
The Committee endorsed the provision for car parking proposed; concluded that the site selected was suitable; and recommended the construction of the work in the reference, preferably, for reasons of economy, as one continuing project rather than in two stages. The sponsoring Department has undertaken to arrange for construction as one continuing project. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of Road Safety and Standards Authority facilities at Albury-Wodonga. 
The proposal is for facilities to house the Road Safety and Standards Authority, which is to be the focal point for more direct Australian Government involvement and for more vigorous and better co-ordinated action at the national level on road safety generally, and on emissions and consumer protection in relation to motor vehicles. 
The complex will consist of an administrative building to accommodate 200 people as well as facilities for outdoor and indoor testing of motor vehicles, including a test circuit, skid pan, emissions laboratory and a tyre testing building. The estimated cost of the proposal was $9m at February 1975 prices. The Committee concluded that there was a need for the facility, the site selected was suitable and should not prejudice the site for any proposed aerodrome to serve the Albury-Wodonga area, and that work should proceed to construction. It is recommended that the House concur with the Committee's report allowing planning to proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of proposed Telephone Exchange Building- Deakin, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of a building comprising a basement, ground and two upper floors, designed to accommodate telecommunications equipment for the Australian Post Office. The building is planned to house local and trunk network telecommunication facilities, and provide other special services for Canberra until the year 2000. The building will be constructed of reinforced concrete and will be airconditioned, with lifts, fire protection, emergency power, and other engineering installations. The estimated cost of the proposal at April 1975 prices is $12.75m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On present indications, 1974-75 will see the completion of about 140 000 dwellings, both private and government, throughout Australia. However at this stage, it is not possible, because of the many variables involved, to provide meaningful estimates of the requirement for dwellings in 1975-76. 
In future, I will be looking to the Indicative Planning Council for advice on what levels of dwelling construction are socially desirable and economically feasible. 
As you know, the housing industry has been subject over the years to a great deal of instability , largely because of a lack of any real co-ordination in the housing industry and between industry and governments. The Australian Government has been concerned with this lack of co-ordination. Also the Government believes that it should seek to achieve a better balance between the supply of and demand for housing and to reduce the extent of stop-go activity in housing. This is a prerequisite for a stable and healthy industry. 
It is with this aim in mind that the Government has embarked on a program of indicative planning for the housing industry. 
The Indicative Planning Council has held its inaugural meeting and its first working meeting. Inaugural meetings of the Council's South Australian, Tasmanian, Queensland and New South Wales Working Parties have also been held. Inaugural meetings will be held as soon as possible of the Victorian, Western Australian, Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Working Parties. 
Based on construction programs submitted by the States for the 1974-75 financial year, it is estimated that about 9800 dwellings should be completed in the year from advances being made available under the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. In addition, the State Housing Authorities are expected to complete at least 3000 dwellings in 1974-75 from other funds. It is not practicable at this stage to provide an estimate for 1975-76. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )Twenty-three professional officers of the Department of Housing and Construction have been engaged in feasibility studies into the construction of Australian Government Hospitals in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. 
None. 
The total cost to the Department for carrying out the feasibility studies was $174,572 of which the following amounts were paid to consulting architects: 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. This report was prepared by the management consultant firm W. D. Scott &amp; Co. for the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and is available for reading by any interested person in the library of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It has been available ever since this Government took office in 1972. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' (Question No. 2319) 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
No. 
I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2243 on 13 May 1975 (Hansard, page 2 198). 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No. 2333) 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. This report was prepared by the management consultant firm W. D. Scott &amp; Co. for the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and is available for reading by any interested person in the library of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It has been available ever since this Government took office in 1972. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No. 2334) 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. This report was prepared by the management consultant firm W. D. Scott &amp; Co. for the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and is available for reading by any interested person in the library of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It has been available ever since this Government took office in 1972. 
Publication 'Secrecy -Political Censorship in Australia  (Question No. 2337) 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
No. 
I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2243 on 13 May 1975(Hansardpage2198). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the year ending 30 June 1 974 the Department of Aboriginal Affairs used, or funded the use by Aboriginal clients of, consultants in specialist fields including accounting, pastoral, animal husbandry, transport, mining and engineering. These consultants were used to investigate, advise on and, in some cases, supervise loans from the then Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises, grants to Aboriginal organisations made from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, and special projects undertaken by my Department. Some of the specialists engaged also style themselves  Management Consultants '. 
The following firms were used: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Exercises in the nature of those understood to be of a Civil Defence character have not been undertaken in my Department in the last 18 months. However, discussions and preliminary arrangements with other Australian Government departments occupying the Tower Building in Woden, A.C.T., have been undertaken to facilitate evacuation of this multi-storey building in the event of an emergency. 
, (3) and (4) See reply to (1). 
See (3) of reply by the Prime Minister to Question No. 548 on 19 September 1974 (Hansard p. 1632). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The amounts provided to each of the companies to 30 June 1974 is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Government is working with the Aboriginal community at Wreck Bay to help it to overcome handicaps facing it, and to develop its capacity to manage its own affairs and increase its independence. 
The problem which the Wreck Bay community initially focussed on was its poor housing. An early proposal to allocate $1,000,000 from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account to enable the immediate implementation of a housing reconstruction project was not proceeded with when the Wreck Bay community indicated that it wished to undertake the re-building itself. 
The Aboriginal community at Wreck Bay has now formed the Wreck Bay Aboriginal Housing Company. The Housing Company, which all Aboriginal residents of Wreck Bay are eligible to join, plans to re-build the village at an approximate cost of $1 million. I now propose to fund the rebuilding of the village at Wreck Bay by a series of direct grants to the Aboriginal Housing Company. 
The Aboriginal community has been vitally involved in the development of the town plan, and the design of the houses and facilities. It has been willingly assisted by my Department, the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission. This assistance includes enabling the community to employ expertise it may require, and funds have already been advanced to enable the Housing Company to engage an architect to design and supervise the erection of approximately 32 homes and associated community facilities. 
The Wreck Bay community is also concerned to obtain a lease of land on which to re-build the township. Proposals for a lease of the village area have been put to the housing Company by the Department of the Capital Territory. The proposed boundaries of the lease incorporates the present built up area and include Mary Bay Beach. The proposed lease will encroach marginally onto the adjoining Jervis Bay Nature Reserve. 
An officer from my Department has been detailed to assist the people of Wreck Bay in their negotiations with the Department of the Capital Territory. 
BARRA Sonobuoy System (Question No. 2488) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question was given on 9 April 1975, Hansard pages 1453-1456. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question was given on 8 April 1975, Hansard page 1 324. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question was given on 9 April 1975, Hansard page 1451. 
Aboriginals: Accommodation in Townsville (Question No. 2126) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question was given on 14 May 1975, Hansard page 2297. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The Department has a training section. The current training program contains a number of courses designed to meet the different needs at different levels of all officers in the Department. Several courses are geared particularly towards the needs of Aboriginal officers. Training is a continuing requirement and subsequent programs will be updated and new developments incorporated based on need and in the light of results of past courses. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In 1971 the then Government established a wholly government owned company, Aboriginal Arts and Crafts Pty Ltd. This Company which has received continuing support from the Labor Government, provides both a wholesale and a retail service for the work of Aboriginal artists and craftsmen. Offices of the Company are located at: 
Aboriginal Arts and Crafts Pty Ltd (Central Office), Mezzanine Floor, MLC Tower, Woden, A.C.T. 2606. 
-Right at the outset this Government acknowledged the right of Aboriginal communities to own land. In February 1973  Mr Justice  Woodward was appointed to investigate and report on Aboriginal land claims in the Northern Territory. I think the honourable gentleman knows that in July 1974 the Government announced its acceptance of those principles and that it has been proceeding since that time with the preparation of legislation. I might say that this firm and positive action on the part of the Government is in direct contrast with the attitude of the previous Government. In 1 97 1  Mr Justice  Blackburn established that, under the law, Aborigines had no legal tenure of land as a traditional right; but no action was taken by the Government at that time to change that situation. It took the election of an Australian Labor Party Government to achieve positive action in this respect. I suppose that the most positive action has been that of the Prime Minister handing over 1250 square miles of land at Wave Hill to the Gurindji people on 16 August. The honourable gentleman would be aware that the legislation is extremely complex. It has taken a great deal of time in preparation. It is currently receiving consideration by the Government. I hope that it will not be long before it is introduced. I concede the point taken by the honourable gentleman that time for reflection ought to be given to interested persons and indeed to the 2 Houses of Parliament, following the introduction of that legislation. 
The Committee has had a wide-ranging discussion on Aboriginal affairs in a fairly non-partisan and constructive way and I am appreciative of the contributions that have been made in the debate. When all is said and done, we are talking about one of the great challenges that confronts the Australian community at the present time when we speak about the emerging Aboriginal people- people who are evolving at varying rates and who increasingly are being afforded the opportunity to make decisions for themselves. Nobody here can dogmatically presume to know the way Aboriginal people think and most of us acknowledge the need to do a great deal of listening but the facilitation of the process by which we listen is a challenge in itself. In that respect I pay tribute to a very much maligned, and unjustifiably maligned, Department, the senior officers who comprise it and those at other levels and eschelons who serve it in ways right across Australia 
To the greatest extent that it is able, the Government is concerned with making an unprecedented rate of progress. As honourable gentlemen know, in recent times we have enacted legislation directed at the Queensland scene designed to eliminate discrimination against Aboriginal people. I take this opportunity of saying that legislation is operative and I hope that wherever opportunities present themselves the Aboriginal people Will avail themselves of that legislation and seek legal advice, perhaps from my Department, in order to sweep away any of the relics of the discrimination that remains in that State, as indeed it does. 
Queensland remains the only State in Australia where Aboriginal people do not have autonomy about their own lands. In the near future new legislation will be introduced- a councils and associations Bill- but I will not speak about it except to indicate that it is synonymous with the emergence of autonomy and is designed to give community councils and various organisations and associations the right to operate in an incorporated way with a legal entity so that they can make their own decisions and be recognised legally and officially by governments, instrumentalities and private concerns all around Australia. This, in itself, represents a very significant milestone and I feel it will be warmly received by both sides of the Parliament. 
Additionally legislation which has been talked about since the Government took office- the Northern Territory Aboriginal Lands Bill- soon will be before the Parliament. It has a lot to do with the fundamentals of Aboriginal affairs because Aboriginal people have a great affinity with the land. In the opinion of the International Labour Organisation, by virtue of Convention 107, and of other bodies they have the right as indigenous people to occupy and have an effective and autonomous say about their traditional lands. By this legislation- the Northern Territory is the part of Australia where the Australian Government has an uninhibited prerogative to set an example that others may emulate- the Government is acting in a desirable way and in a way that Aboriginal people have been wanting governments to act for many years past. As I mentioned to day at question time, our good intentions in that regard have been demonstrated first of all by the acceptance by the Government of the Woodward principles and by the establishment of interim land councils which will operate until the legislation is introduced. I suppose that, more dramatically than anything else, the handover by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of 12 500 square miles to the Gurindji tribe a short time ago shows that the Government means business. 
A number of members have talked about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee; some of them have referred to it by the wrong name. The name certainly implies what are the Government's intentions as to the Committee's role and there is no ambiguity at this time or in the foreseeable future as to the role of that organisation. I readily acknowledge that the expectations we have had about the NACC are yet to be fulfilled in entirety. I think it is the job of all honourable members- I know there is a great deal of co-operation in this regard- to assist in making that body work effectively. I know that in the forthcoming Parliamentary recess a number of parliamentarians will meet NACC members I certainly shall- to talk turkey and to get down to fundamentals as to how that organisation can become effective. It represents the Aboriginal people of this country in the best possible way that we as non-Aboriginal people can contrive. That does not mean of course that the Committee represents everything that is desirable because our system of selecting representatives is entirely different from the Aboriginal traditional system. But we are making the best of a difficult situation. 
The 41 members who assemble in a central place from time to time representing the 41 electorates will be encouraged to go back, if it is their wish to do so, to their regions and build a solid base among their people so that they can come and effectively represent the voice of the Aboriginal people. We will be talking about these matters and the processes by which they shall be supported and funded by the Australian Government. To make that possible a constitution for the NACC is necessary. It is proposed on the part of the Aborigines to establish an association which also is to be incorporated and which probably will become the instrument by which the secretariat and the other funding requirements will be fulfilled. I want the Committee to know that it is the intention of this Government to work co-operatively, to the extent that it is possible, with NACC representatives in the hope that the aspirations of those members about the role they will play in fulfilling the destiny of Aboriginal people will be advanced. 
There are so many things happening in Aboriginal affairs today that the subject is becoming extremely exciting. The most contemporary development, of course, is in respect of the request of some 1 8 or 1 9 lawyers for a royal commission about a number of matters mainly concerning Aboriginal people and the administration of justice, Aboriginal people and corrective institutions, and Aboriginal people and police relations. There can be no question in anybody's mind that there is a lot to be done in respect of each of these matters. It is not for me to say that the Government will go ahead with the royal commission, but I can assure the Committee that these matters are being given a great deal of consideration at present. 
We have, on the initiative of my predecessor, instituted extensive inquiries into problems that have emerged in Western Australia. I believe that the Laverton - Skule Creek Royal Commission is revealing information which I hope will provide remedial benefits in the future. It is also the Government's intention to proceed with a royal commission into the plight of Aborigines in the Northern Territory in the hope that we will be able to effect better relations in the future between the Aboriginal people and the police. In talking about this subject, I take the view that the interest I have is not motivated by a police bashing approach to the situation. Everybody here knows that there are people who serve in all the government instrumentalities who have a lot of understanding and a lot of sympathy but here and there of course there is a bad apple in the box. 
Other wide ranging matters concern the initiatives taken by the Government in the establishment of Aboriginal legal services which are providing a very direct orientation to the problems that Aboriginal people are encountering. It is peculiar that we do not effectively take into account such matters as Aboriginal customs and traditions in matters of the law in many parts of Australia. For example, lawyers are saying: 'Where are the Aboriginal people who take their place on juries which hear Aboriginal cases? Where are the Aboriginal advisers to the magistrates? Where are the assessors? Where are the people who might take their place in a custody case, for example to identify the fact that contrary to the situation in a non-Aboriginal community, Aboriginal people often attach a great deal of importance to an uncle taking custody of a child?' All these matters could stand a lot of examination. What we have to understand in providing Aboriginal medical services is that Aboriginal people are responding to an atmosphere which is conducive to their own style of things in a way that they have never done before. I pay tribute to the medical services that are operating in various parts of the country and declare on behalf of the Government our intention, to the extent that we are able, to provide support when it is sought. 
One of the phenomena in this whole area is the apparent desire on the part of Aboriginal people to go back to their traditional and tribal way of life in their tribal grounds. A number of outstations which have emerged in recent times is extremely interesting. Aboriginal people in large numbers, in groups, in mobs as they sometimes like to refer to themselves, are leaving the settlements, leaving the missions and going away back to the bush to make a way of life as they see fit. For a government, this throws up a lot of interesting challenges and a great deal of philosophical conjecture as to whether or not the Government should sustain, support and back up that kind of movement even though it may cost money and even though facilities that have been expensively funded by governments may be left unused back in the missions and the settlements. Nobody really understands the motivation for this. We all know that may Aboriginal elders are concerned about the fact that menchildren are entering a way of life that throws them into a twilight sort of situation, a Umbo way of life which is extremely disturbing in that they are not completely a part of one culture or the other. So they seem to be seeking out for themselves an indigenous style of life. No doubt the prospects of their gaining rights over their own tribal land which is being facilitated by the Government could have some bearing on these matters. 
The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  talked about award wages. He did not want us to give people too much money. All these matters have to be approached primarily from the standpoint of basic principles. It is not easy to tell people that because they are Aboriginal they are entitled to a wage rate that is less than that of other people. Even though that may throw up some problems in the short term, including the excessive use of alcohol, it could well be a stage that we have to go through. I do not want to take a lot more time but there are many matters which one could talk about. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who is the spokesman for the Opposition on Aboriginal affairs, raced over the Estimates like an animated blowfly over a smorgasbord. He jumped from issue to issue and they were aU very interesting issues. 
-I would like to give him many of the answers. I may make some reference to some of the points that he has raised in a short time. I think one of the early issues which he raised was the fact that the Government has greatly increased its expenditure on housing for Aboriginal people. The amount allocated has risen from about $ 14m in the previous Government's Budget to about $45m in the Labor Government's Budget. I do not wish to make too many odious comparisons of that kind, but it is apparent we are trying very hard to overtake this deficiency in the housing scene. 
The honourable member has taken some points which he is justified in taking and has offered some criticism. Nobody can be happy with the scene that is in evidence now because materials are lying idle and things are not flowing as smoothly as they should. Mention has been made of waste and of consultants sapping away the financial vitality of this effort to some extent. But it has to be realised that in housing people in the remote parts of Australia there are often problems in wet seasons. There is a need to store materials. There is an unavailability of the expertise that is needed at given times. 
Be that as it may, I am inclined to take the view that we have turned over to the Aboriginal people probably an excess degree of democracy in regard to housing. I have seen the best results where we get an honest, down-to-earth, practical overseer who can get in and build houses at a decent price, as is being done at Bathurst Island, for example. I know of houses which are incorrectly designed in my view and in the view of the Aboriginal people. They are also greatly overpriced. There is a lot that one could say about that. It is interesting to note that the Aboriginal people are contriving their own housing systems. One of the most outstanding is the Apatula house which is designed to enable semi.skilled Aboriginal people to engage in the erection of houses in many parts of Australia. This seems to be a highly acceptable product. 
Applied Ecology Pty Ltd was mentioned. I will not go into this except to say in respect of the turtle farm that we have had the benefit of 2 expert reports and the Government is engaged in the process of looking into the scientific potential of that and a number of other associated industries. Sport was mentioned by the honourable gentleman. He complained that funds were reduced in this area, as indeed they have been, but I may say that the amount we have provided has a comparability with the amount expended in the previous year. Mention was made also of publications. There is some misunderstanding about these matters.  Aboriginal News  and  Aboriginal Affairs Monthly  are produced by my Department and the publication  identity  is provided from the Publications Foundation. 
The hovercraft was mentioned. I am sorry if there is the intention to criticise that because I believe it is a very exciting initiative that has been taken by my Department. The honourable gentleman might be interested to know that it is used for medical evacuation, transportation of medical clinics to islands, transportation of government personnel and council chairmen. After that, it is used for general transportation of the community. It is proving to be a very interesting pilot scheme to the point where the Department has already contracted with a firm in South Australia to construct an air cushion vehicle for use in the Torres Strait Islands. This improvement in communications has many very impressive possibilities 
Mention has been made of organisations overlapping. I may say that there is some evidence of this. Nevertheless, it is very important that we do not crush initiatives. Where the Aboriginal people want to establish an organisation for a particular purpose, we are inclined to favour them a great deal. In that respect I may say that the inquiry of the Public Accounts Committee has established that the Projects Control Branch is working very effectively in the Department. If the work continues as it is at present, we are likely to minimise the extent of overlapping by organisations. I cannot take too seriously the criticism that 30 per cent of the expenditure by the Department is represented by administration - 
-It is $13m out of $142m. The fact of the matter is that we have a very complex operation. It covers almost every facet of material, life and so on. We also have the benefit of a high Aboriginal staff content which is growing apace. In terms of the total staff which at 1 October stood at 1490, more than half-744- are Aborigines. Of those 774 Aboriginal staff members, 650 are industrial employees in the Northern Territory. Excluding these, there remain 124 Aborigines within the Department's total number of 840 second, third and fourth division staff members. I could give a lot more information in that respect. We are trying quite earnestly to involve the Aboriginal people in participation in these administrative matters. 
There are many other things on which one would like to comment. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has raised the matter of Oenpelli Mission and alcohol. As he indicated, I have had the benefit of that letter. Indeed, I made my second visit recently to Oenpelli and talked to the people there. There is a great problem there in respect to alcohol. Mention has been made of the border store. That was in operation, of course, before this Government took office. But there are all kinds of rights that have to be acknowledged in the Northern Territory. They do not involve just the Aboriginal people. 
I think the honourable gentleman knows there is a problem here which concerns the licensing authorities. It is certainly not my right or prerogative to go in heavy-handed and take away liquor licences I could not do that if I wanted to do it. But everything that has been said in that letter has a great deal of credibility. I have seen the signs and symptoms of excessive drinking in a number of parts of Australia by Aboriginal people and by non-Aboriginal people. In Oenpelli a lot of interest is being shown by the community in getting a police presence there. I talked to the Police Commissioner in the Northern Territory recently. There is some interest in a mobile police station and associated facilities. But there is a great problem in this whole area. Honourable gentlemen know of the experiment at the Finke Hotel. The hotel was bought and handed over to Aboriginal management. One of the first decisions taken there was to limit the range of deleterious liquor and to restrict the drinking hours. Already, there are very beneficial effects. The communities are grappling with these problems. They are already trying to decide whether they should have their own liquor licences under control, whether they should serve only canned beer, whether they should open the beer so that the liquor does not get back to the camps or whether they should use draught beer. Some people are clamouring for liquor licences and others are clamouring to get rid of them. So it is an extremely difficult scene. 
I have probably outstayed my welcome. I simply want to say that there are a lot of things happening. The Aboriginal people themselves are really on their toes. I think an interesting development the other day was the emergence of the Aboriginal women here in Canberra. They have given, as their menfolk have, a clear indication that they will not be taken for granted and that they want the Australian Government's interest in them continued so that they can live the same kind of life and have the same opportunities as all other Australian's. I thank the Committee for the consideration it has extended to me. Where there are outstanding matters that I have not attended to, I hope to be making some contact with the honourable members who have raised those matters with me. 
Proposed expenditure agreed. 
Department of the Capital Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $39,486,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only voluntary organisation which has requested financial assistance from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters is the National Council of Aboriginal and Island Women. 
The Council initially requested $78,000 to establish a National Office as well as seven Branch and Regional Offices. The Department advised the Council it could not fund this amount for a National network of offices, and the Council then agreed to apply for funds for National Office costs only. A grant of $ 1 9,400 was approved for this purpose. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The members of the Council for Aboriginal 
Affairs are: 
-I remember complaints being made about discrimination against Aboriginal people in Queensland. In fact there is an incessant flow of such complaints and it is probably time that people realised that the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act was passed by this Parliament on 19 June last and has a capacity to redress many of these problems. The honourable gentleman referred to the Women and Politics Conference. It is true that complaints were made there and in particular by a Marcia Lambton, an Aboriginal lady who claimed, among other things, when referring to the Queensland laws, that under those laws blacks could not choose to live where they wanted and could be moved anywhere at the discretion of a government official and Aboriginal estates were controlled by an appointed manager so that in reality blacks had no access to their money or to estates of deceased persons. She said that the Queensland laws could override the Conciliation and Arbitration Act so that blacks were not eligible for the minimum award wage and could not strike or organise without penalty. She went on to say that they have legislated for every aspect of a black person's life and they were administered by one white man. 
The fact of the matter is that the Act to which I have referred gives redress in these matters. It is now illegal to pay less than award wages, and it is up to the Queensland Government to ensure that its own departments abide by the law. If any person feels that the law is not being complied with he can take any or all of the actions available to the public. I suggest that any person who intends to set off in this direction should seek legal advice. It is competent, of course, for such a person to avail himself or herself of the Aboriginal Legal Service, which will be happy to give advice about such matters. I believe that the effectiveness of this Act should now be tested because there has been little improvement in the very serious discriminatory laws that have been operating against Aboriginal people in Queensland over the years. 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is one of a series of 4 Bills the Government has undertaken to introduce, to assist in the implementation of its policy of assisting Aboriginal people to take their rightful place as citizens in the Australian community. The first 2 Acts in this series were: The Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1974 which established the Aboriginal Enterprises Fund to provide loans to Aboriginals for business ventures which have some prospect of success and the Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund to provide loans to individuals for housing and other personal needs, and the Aboriginal Land Fund Act 1975, which established the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission to assist, by way of grant finance, Aboriginal corporations or land trusts to obtain land throughout Australia. This will enable Aboriginal communities to establish themselves on secure land bases. This group of 4 legislative measures is completed with the introduction of this Bill and the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill which seeks to provide for Aboriginal reserves and certain other lands in the Northern Territory to be vested in Aboriginal Land Trusts. 
Legislation such as that proposed in this Bill was recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward in the first report of the Aboriginal Land Rights 
Commission in 1973. He envisaged such legislation as providing, in particular, a method of incorporation which would safeguard Aboriginal tenure of land. In addition, the Australian Government has seen the need to provide a vehicle by which Aboriginal communities and organisations, whether they hold land or not, may more effectively achieve their aims and objectives within the general Australian community. Aboriginal organisations need to be able to incorporate to enable them to receive grants and other funds from the Australian Government or other sources; to acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property; to enter into contracts and operate economic enterprises; and generally to conduct their affairs in an orderly manner. Incorporation provides the necessary framework for legal recognition of such bodies and for their right to act in a collective manner, and imposes on them the obligation to acknowledge responsibility for the consequences of their actions. 
Currently, it is necessary for Aboriginal communities to incorporate under various State Acts or ordinances as limited liability companies, associations, co-operatives and so on. Experience throughout Australia has shown that, with the emergence of a clear wish on the part of communities to act corporately for the common benefit, these forms of incorporation cannot meet the needs of most Aboriginal groupsespecially those remote, tradition-oriented communities where the understanding of western European legal concepts is very limited. It is inappropriate to burden such communities with the complexities of general Australian law which covers matters of little relevance to them. They need a flexibility in such matters as establishment of the geographical base and membership of a corporation, the election of the governing executive for a community, the making of rules appropriate for that community and the control of that community's funds and property. In relation to land ownership, the Australian Government also wishes to ensure that Aboriginal communities will be secure in their tenure of land for all time. 
The Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill deals with the establishment of 2 quite distinct forms of corporate entity: 
Aboriginal councils, which will be geographically based bodies which may undertake a variety of functions on behalf of the Aboriginal people of the area, provided that these include the provision of at least one local government type service; and Aboriginal associations, which may be formed for any legal purposes including the conduct of a business enterprise. 
The Bill seeks to establish a Registrar of Aboriginal Corporations to advise and assist Aboriginal corporations and to supervise their activities in much the same way as a Registrar of Companies supervises the affairs of companies. The Registrar will initially be accommodated within my Department, which will also provide support staff and other facilities during the early settling down period. Safeguards have been included in the Bill to ensure that an Aboriginal corporation may not, without the consent of the Minister, dispose of an estate or interest in land obtained with Government funds or by way of a grant from the Government. This will ensure that Aboriginal land cannot be dissipated, but will be retained in perpetuity for the benefit of future generations of Aboriginal Australians. 
Aboriginal communities and groups will not, of course, be obliged to use this legislation and may continue to incorporate under existing State and Northern Territory legislation as they have done in the past. Those incorporated organisations already in existence may continue under their present arrangements if they wish or may re-incorporate under this legislation. The Government believes, however, that Aboriginal communities will become increasingly aware of the advantages of incorporating under this Australian Government legislation which is designed especially for their needs and offers a simple, flexible and nationally uniform means of incorporation. This Bill should thus encourage and enable Aboriginal groups to manage their own affairs and to relate to the broad pattern of Australian life more effectively and with greater understanding than has been possible under the complex laws which now govern their corporate existence. 
This Bill is therefore an important one for the Aboriginal community. While it provides for simplified methods of incorporation it is itself a fairly complex document, and it will need to be studied very carefully by the Aboriginal community and its advisers. It is the Government's intention, therefore, that, as with the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill, further debate on this Bill will not occur until there has been adequate time for the Bill to be examined by all who will be affected by it. I will be taking whatever action is necessary in the next few months to ensure that the Bill is explained to and understood by the Aboriginal community, and that the community's views on its provisions are taken account of in the later stages of debate. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in the case of Re Bannister, ex parte Hartstein 
Several of the Aboriginal legal aid services have taken advice from Senior Counsel who nave advised that the services are not affected by the decision. The case of Re Bannister ex parte Hartstein is before the High Court on appeal and I do not feel I should make any further comment 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes.  Mr George  Putty was charged before the Magistrate's Court in Katherine on two counts of aggravated assault. After consultation with a solicitor on the staff of the Northern Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service he pleaded guilty.  Mr Putty  was convicted and sentenced to 18 months on each count to be served cumulatively. An appeal was lodged and resulted in a re-trial, following which the penalty was reduced in respect of one conviction. 
The professional members of the Northern Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service are fully qualified and experienced; the solicitor concerned in this case holds two degrees in law, has had 8 years experience in Magistrates Court work in Australia and has been a First Class Magistrate in Fiji. 
I am in consultation with the Attorney-General on the future relationship between the Australian Legal Aid Office and the Aboriginal legal services throughout Australia, but this should not be taken as implied criticism of the standard of legal representation available to Aboriginals through the Aboriginal legal services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2586, Hansard 5 June 1975 at page 3545. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Six officers are employed in the Research Branch of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra. This Branch carries out research into programs sponsored by the Department and recommends on the sponsoring of research into various aspects of Aboriginal affairs by external researchers. Developments leading from these programs are carried out by various sections of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs or other instrumentalities. Five Research Officers are employed in Department of Aboriginal Affairs offices in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Darwin. 
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies is a research organisation under the statutory control of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Information on the Institute is available from its reports tabled annually in the Parliament. The Institute employs SO staff in Canberra and in various parts of 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Grants to Western Australian Aboriginal Groups from Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Service is funded by the Australian Government to provide legal aid to Aboriginals on the South Coast and adjacent areas. 
Australian Government funds are provided to enable the Service to employ five permanent staff. 
The Australian Government has provided funds for the purchase of three vehicles for the Service. 
The Australian Government provides direct grants to the Service from funds allocated to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for support of Aboriginal legal services. The accountant to the Legal Service reimburses proper expenditure under the directions of the Service's Council and after approval by the auditor. 
See (S) above. All five staff members are authorised to sign cheques. 
See (S) above. In regard to Australian Government funds, I approve the budget of the Legal Service and the Service is required to provide an audited statement demonstrating that funds have been disbursed in accordance with the approved purposes. 
Yes- for work of an urgent nature when permanent staff members are not available. 
No. 
10) Four service stations; one motel. 
Total spent by Nowra section of the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Service on: 
motor vehicles (repairs, maintenance, fuel etc.)-$5,529.28. 
travel and accommodation- $2,428.39. 
The Aboriginal Legal Service has provided the following information: 'In the course of their duties as research officers and field officer respectively two staff members were present in Canberra at various times during November 1974 as were executive members and senior staff who were attending discussions with Ministers'. 
See (7) and (9) above. Some unauthorised expenditure has recently been disclosed and I am requiring the Legal Service to have its staff make this good. 
See (1)and (2)above 
Yes; mainly personal. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question was provided on 20 August 1 975 at Hansard page 363. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Aboriginal Legal Service of Western Australia is an independent incorporated body controlled, within the terms of its constitution, by an executive committee which is answerable to the general membership of the Service; only Aborigines may be members of the incorporated body. The principal officers of the Service are the Executive Officers, Principal Solicitor, Senior Field Officer and Office Manager; these officers are responsible to the executive committee. 
) The Service employs staff and has professional staff on retainer. The total of persons employed or otherwise directly associated with the Service is 22. 
The names and locations of persons employed by or on retainer with the Service are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The answer to the honourable member's question was provided on 20 August 1975, Hansard at page 362. 
The preparation of this answer was delayed because of: 
delays in the NACC transmitting resolutions to the Minister; 
difficulties rendering these resolutions into cohesive form, which meant that, by the time a draft reply to this question had been prepared, another meeting of the NACC had taken place; the drafting was then held over to take account of the new set of resolutions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions number 1306 and 1307 appeared in the daily Hansards of 13 
May and 20 August 1975 at pages 2192 and 363-364 respectively. 
In both cases the compilation of answers required referral of the questions to several officers within my Department, including officers then responsible for the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. While draft replies were being prepared, the legislation establishing the Aboriginal Loans Commission was enacted and further drafting action was overlooked in the resulting transfer of responsibilities. The answer to question 1307 was approved by  Senator Cavanagh  on 27 May 1975. Before this was printed in Hansard, changes in ministerial portfolios necessitated its submission for my consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2789,  Hansard  5 June 1975 at pages 3596 and 3547. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An area of approximately 1250 square miles (324 000 hectares) consisting of all that part of the old Wave Hill lease (Pastoral Lease 529) west of and including the Victoria River is now held by the Muramulla Gurindji Company Pty Limited under Northern Territory Pastoral Lease No. 805. 
An amount of $260,500 was made available from the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the purchase of Pastoral Lease No. 805. Of this amount, $190,000 represents the unimproved value of the lease and $70,500 the value of fixed improvements existing thereon. 
The Australian Government will also reimburse the Wave Hill Pastoral Company for the actual cost of erecting a boundary fence between the two new pastoral leases, mustering and removing cattle from the area now owned by the Muramulla Gurindji Company and sinking and equipping up to ten bores to replace lost access to the Victoria River. The precise cost cannot be ascertained until work was been completed, but is expected to be in the order of $320,000. 
Aborigines at Wattie Creek (Question No. 2900) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
212. 
Mudbra Tribe 
6 employed full time by Wave Hill Council, 9 employed full time and 6 part time by the Muramulla Gurindji Pastoral Company. 
No Aboriginals at Daguragu were receiving unemployment benefits, and 30 were receiving pensions, at 30 June 1975. 
Muramulla Gurindji Pastoral Company; Wattie Creek (Trading) Company. 
-I am aware of the problems concerning the Aboriginal people in Arnhem Land at places like Oenpelli and Maningrida and many other parts where alcohol is taking a toll of the community. Of course, it is a very difficult matter with which to come to grips. Although the honourable member for Mackellar, who spoke on this matter last night, tends to make it all sound very easy, one just cannot go back to a prohibition approach to this situation, with the sequel of bootlegging and deleterious varieties of alcohol being consumed. The fact of the matter is that the predominance of people in these communities appears to want alcohol regardless of its deleterious consequences. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs has a very limited prerogative in the matter. The nearest store to Oenpelli is some 12 miles away. If that is closed down the Aboriginal people will just go from Oenpelli to the next store, which is 60 miles away. The fact of the matter is that in respect of each application for a liquor licence objections are made before the licensing authorities each year by the Aboriginal people; despite that the licence is granted. So it seems that there is an intent to secure liquor supplies in any eventuality and in any situation. It is not an easy thing just to decide that you are going to deprive Aboriginal people of liquor and that you can in fact effectively deprive them of it by closing down the neighbouring stores, because many of them would set about transporting it either by road over a longer distance or by air. 
An interdepartmental committee has been looking at this matter for some time, and I have now asked that its efforts be intensified and that it be especially oriented to the particular problems that exist in Oenpelli. I am beginning to believe that the problem is so deep-seated that we will need to look at it from the standpoint of entirely different dimensions. The scientific basis of the problem will need to be investigated. It seems to me to be necessary to look at the reasons why alcohol is so appealing to Aboriginal people. Whether it is associated with a state of despair and despondency is difficult to say, but I readily concede that the problem is extremely serious. We will be intensifying our efforts to come to grips with it. We would like to give effect to the local option principle. In doing so, of course, one has to acknowledge readily that you get a very mixed scene in the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (5) The programs of assistance to Aboriginals administered by my Department were set out in the answer to Parliamentary Question No. 1757. They comprise grants through State governments under an annual States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Act, direct grants to Aboriginal organisations and communities under the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account and other Departmental appropriations", loans to both individuals and groups under the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act (previously the Aboriginal Enterprises Assistance Act 1968) and grants under the Aboriginal Land Fund Act. 
Particulars of these programs of assistance are contained in the annual Second Reading Speech on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill as well as in the Annual Reports of the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises which were tabled in Parliament. 
Grants and loans under these programs are provided only where they are of direct benefit to Aboriginals. 
The legal authority for loans to Aboriginals is the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act; the authority for grants to Aboriginal communities for the purchase of land is the Aboriginal Land Fund Act. Direct grants to Aboriginal communities or groups for other purposes are authorised by the Appropriation Acts (No. 1 ) each year. 
Communities are informed of the existence of these programs by Regional and Area Officers of my Department and through publications of the Department. 
and (10) During the year 1974-75 approximately 1500 applications for grants were received from communities throughout Australia. 985 were approved, 16 were declined and the balance were under consideration at the close of the financial year. 
Until recently all decisions on applications for grants were made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I have now delegated authority to senior departmental officers to determine applications for grants coming within the scope of programs previously approved by me. 
Grants are made available to communities or groups only; individuals are only eligible for loans from the Aboriginal Loans Commission. 
(13) and (14) Frequent contacts between departmental officers and Aboriginal communities ensure their awareness of the existence of these programs. I am satisfied that the programs of the Department are receiving adequate publicity among the Aboriginal communities. 
Following the re-organisation of the Department in 1974, procedures have been established for program management and project control which are intended to ensure that grants are being utilised for the purposes for which they are provided and that organisations receiving such grants account for them periodically. 
and (17) See answer to Parliamentary Question 1757. 
Applications are investigated, where necessary in consultation with other Australian Government Departments, to ensure that there is no overlap between assistance available from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and from other Departments. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Grants are available to Aboriginal communities and groups from funds voted to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs by the Parliament for a variety of purposes, including Welfare, Housing, Education, Health, Community Amenities, Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, Loans Commission and Legal Aid. Loans are available for Aboriginals in accordance with the provisions of the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1974; prior to 28 November 1974 loans were available in accordance with the Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968. 
The purpose of grants made from each allocation is to provide funds for Aboriginal groups and communities to improve their capacity to manage their own affairs within the field envisaged by the allocation. 
The purpose of loans provided by the Aboriginal Loans Commission is to enable Aborigines to engage in business enterprises that are likely to become, or continue to be, successful or in the case of housing and personal loans to assist Aborigines and their spouses to obtain a house, housing land and various essential personal items, such as basic furniture. 
and (4)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 346 200 square km. 
243 970 square km. 
(a) The area of pastoral leases that have been pur chased by the Government is 10 960 square km. 
The area of pastoral leases now being negotiated is 929 1 square km. 
(a) The area of the Northern Territory subject to land claims by Aboriginal groups at 9 September 1975 was approximately 36 468 square km. 
These claims are situated in the following locations: 
Northern area of the Northern Territory 
Bagot, Knuckey 's Lagoon, Tree Point, 2 urban hostel sites (Darwin), Adelaide River, (Catherine, Mataranka, Elliott, Pine Creek, Woolner, Alligator River System, Endyalgout Island (near Murganella), Roper River Mouth (Maria Island), Limmen River, Booroloola,  Sir Edward  Pellew Island, Nicholson River, Humpty Doo, Bamyili, St Vidgeon Station, Victoria River Downs Station ( Yarralin). 
Southern Area of the Northern Territory 
Charles River Border, camps around Alice Springs (Mt Nancy, Artists, Hume's Pipes, Ilparpa), Tempe Downs and Middleton Ponds, Amaroo Station (Honeymoon Bore), Napperby Station, Rockhampton Downs, Supplejack Downs, Rabbit Flat, road from Hermannsburg to Areyonga, vacant block east side of Alice Springs, Vaughan Springs Station. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is making $2. 18m available to the Aboriginal Land Fund in the 1975-76 financial year. In addition, an amount of $2m is being provided in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account to complement the operations of the Land Fund for the purchase of stock, plant etc. and to provide operational funds. 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission is not empowered to acquire land or properties compulsorily and will need to rely on the availability of properties in the first instance and successful negotiations before it is able to acquire properties. It is not possible therefore to say which properties will be purchased during 1975-76. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1974-75 the direct expenses paid by my Department were: 
Fares and travelling allowance .... 985.40 
Salary of Professor Stanner..... 14,037.53 
In regard to the salaries of  Dr Coombs  and  Mr Dexter  see the reply to Question No. 2192. 
There is not, and has never been, any expenditure by the Council as such. 
Thirteen meetings of a more or less formal nature, but the Council also held many informal meetings as well as developing numerous documents on the basis of drafts circulated between members. 
It would be impossible to give a precise figure, as the process was a relatively constant one involving not only the presentation of written advice but also discussions in informal circumstances, e.g. over a meal. Numbers of the Council's recommendations were approved by  Senator Cavanagh  and myself for implementation. Some of the Council's advice is published, for instance the Report on Yuendumu and Hooker Creek arising out of a visit in March 1974, which was tabled in Parliament on 15 August 1974. The Council has also recently presented me with a report on visits to Arnhem Land during the first half of 1975, and I have approved the recommendations in the report which is being published and will be shortly tabled in Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An amount of $300,000 has been programmed for assistance to the Wreck Bay Housing Company by way of grant in 1975-76. No provision has been made for a loan. A final determination of the grant to be provided will be made on the basis of firm proposals from the Company. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Provision has been made for 'support for ecological projects' in a sum of $900,000 in the 1975-76 Appropriation Bill. Grants will be made to Applied Ecology Pty Ltd out of this provision to meet its needs. Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd is being wound up. There is no provision for loans to Applied Ecology Pty Ltd during 1 975-76. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The payments from the item 'Other Services and Support for Ecological Projects' in 1974-75 totalled $798,375.46. Payments of $160 and $125 were made in connection with the winding-up of the company, Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd. The remaining amount of $798,090.46 was released to Applied Ecology Pty Ltd in progress payments made in November 1974, February 1975 and June 1975 in accordance with the company's approved budget and the level of actual expenditure from time to time. 
VIP Cars  (Question No. 3068) 
-I have received a report. It established that the Premier has made allegations which represent, in most cases, either half truths or non-truths. It is an amazing situation. The Premier has gone up to the Islands and has made a lot of contentions in connection with matters which arose out of initiatives which were taken by my predecessor who proposed to facilitate a number of self-help projects over 14 of the Islands involving an expenditure of approximately $ lm. The Premier has made allegations that equipment has been off-loaded in the wrong places. Some of those allegations are true. Weather conditions prevented equipment from being landed in the right place so it was offloaded for trans-shipment. He has contended that cement has been left to waste on Saibai Island whereas in fact it was off-loaded on Dauan Island and was covered effectively to protect it from the weather. He has made allegations that a vessel chartered by the Department, the Miss Doreen, was not utilised. In fact it was chartered by a co-operative and it has been used almost continuously. He has made complaints about the hovercraft to the effect that it is hardly effective whereas there have been only 2 cancellations of that hovercraft in respect of 400 hours of operation. There are many other matters which cannot stand up to examination. I believe the Premier should apologise to the Torres Strait Islanders on whom he has reflected. 
The transhipment of equipment is taking place at a rate at which weather conditions and other circumstances permit. We would be greatly assisted in these endeavours if we were able to obtain the support of the Queensland Government which has predominated in the field of transport and communications in the Torres Strait Islands up to this point of time. The 'honourable gentleman asked me about  Dr Coombs.  It is not appropriate for me to answer a question of that kind because  Dr Coombs  was not acting for me alone in matters concerning the border issues affecting Papua New Guinea and Australia. It is more appropriate, of course, to direct questions of that kind to the Prime Minister. So far as an investigation is concerned, there are continual reviews of the Department's activities in the Torres Strait Islands. They are of a contemporary nature and not of a long standing nature as have been the activities of die Queensland Government. I think it is significant to say that they are attracting warm approval from the Islanders and especially the Island chairmen who have made statements to the effect that for the first time in the history of the Torres Strait the people there are now being treated with respect and with dignity. They are appearing to give warmhearted support to the initiatives taken by the Australian Government to catalyse autonomous activities by corporate bodies of Torres Strait Islanders. 
-I have seen the article. Naturally I am pleased to observe that the work of the Aboriginal medical centres has been acknowledged in a magazine that is circulated internationally as is the  Reader's Digest.  The fact of the matter is that this enterprise is one which has sprung from the aspirations and initiatives of the Aboriginal people themselves. Needless to say, it would be very wrong to downgrade, disparage or disregard the contributions made by the Australian Government. From the time of the inception of this service some $365,000, or an amount in excess of that, has been made available mainly through my Department but also with inputs from the Department of Social Security and the Department of Health. The centre at Redfern is one of 7 such centres operating in Australia. 
These centres are making a most significant contribution to uplifting the health standards of Aboriginal people. 
The honourable gentleman asks me for an indication of future Government support. I can say that a substantial sum has been allocated this year- I think it is approximately $28,000 as a contribution to recurrent costs. Negotiations have been in progress for some time in respect of the need for new facilities for that Aboriginal medical centre. I am pleased that the honourable gentleman has raised this question as there has been some disparagement of the centre. Some reports have appeared in the Press to the effect that the Government's support and enthusiasm in respect of its activities were waning. I certainly disabuse anyone of that impression and indicate the continued interest and backing of this Government for the work of the Aboriginal Medical Service. 
-I am aware of the recent disclosures about police investigation techniques in the Northern Territory. I am concerned about them and I am similarly concerned with the whole question of Aboriginal-police relations. The Government has a commitment to the holding of a royal commission in the Northern Territory and I am currently engaged in consultations with the Attorney-General as to the terms of reference of that royal commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a), (c) and (d) Financial assistance in the form of Direct Grants is available to incorporated Aboriginal groups and organisations in a variety of fields such as housing, health, education, employment, welfare, economic enterprises, town management, recreation and agricultural activities and legal aid. These Grants are not repayable. There are no matching grants as such and no distinction is made between Grants and Subsidies. Grants are not normally available to individuals. 
Loans are available from the Aboriginal Loans Commission to: 
Individuals and incorporated groups for approved business enterprises; 
Individuals as well as groups for home purchases on concessional terms. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs has published a booklet entitled 'Guide to Aboriginal Assistance' which has been widely distributed. In addition, the Regional and Area Offices of the Department throughout Australia are in close touch with Aboriginal groups and communities for the purpose of explaining available programs of assistance. 
See (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner for the Northern Territory has, as a result of extensive hearings earlier this year, recommended that a Special Purpose Lease covering approximately 847 acres, which includes that area of land claimed by the Aboriginals associated with Kulaluk, be granted to trustees nominated by the Northern Aboriginal Land Council. I have endorsed the Interim Land Commissioner's recommendations, and to enable the appropriate lease to be granted, arrangements are being made to acquire those existing interests which lie within the area of the proposed lease. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question number 3110,  Hansard,  October, 1975 at page 1598. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. This morning I was in the House when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  contended that a Minister at present sitting in the House had given him a document. I say that if that remark can be construed as being directed at me I regard it as reprehensible and without any factual basis. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In the field of Aboriginal affairs, this is undoubtedly the most important legislation ever to be introduced into the Australian Parliament. While several States have moved towards the recognition of Aboriginal land rights, this legislation goes much further than has previously been contemplated in Australia. This Bill will give effect to the recommendations of the second report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission- the Woodward report- and grant land rights to Aboriginals in the Northern Territory. It will provide for freehold title over all reserves and certain other lands to be vested in Aboriginal ownership and give Aboriginals control over what happens on their land, including control over mining developments. 
This Bill will establish in our law those aspects of Aboriginal traditional law relating to land which  Mr Justice  Blackburn could not uphold in 1971 in the Gove land rights case: It creates for Aboriginals proprietary interests in, and communal title to, land, and makes that title inalienable. Although title to the land to be transferred to Aboriginal ownership will be vested in a number of Aboriginal land trusts, the land will be administered by land councils, which will be obliged to follow the wishes of the traditional Aboriginal land owners. The power to decide what happens to the land thus rests with the traditional owners whose representatives, the members of the land councils, will have available all necessary specialist advice and assistance. 
Honourable members may recall that in August 1968 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)then  Leader of the Opposition- described the 1967 referendum as 'the most massive expression of the general will ever known in this country'. It was, he went on, 'a virtual command by 5 700 000 Australians that the national Government should take a lead to promote (among other things) the land rights of Aboriginals'. Early in 1972 he pledged a Labor government to the establishment of community freehold ownership of land in the Northern Territory by identifiable Aboriginal communities or tribes. He further stated in his policy speech before the national election in December 1972 that a Labor government would legislate to give Aboriginals land rights, 'not just because their case is beyond argument, but because all of us as Australians are diminished while the Aboriginals are denied their rightful place in this nation'. 

 -Mr Speaker, the  Chairman  of the Eastern Island Group in the Torres Strait Islands, George Mye, and 17 other Island leaders representing the combined councils of the Eastern Islands issued a statement on 14 October. It is a long statement and generally it establishes that the Premier made unsubstantiated allegations about my Department, grossly exaggerated statements and statements which were alleged to be facts but which subsequent inquiries have found to be untrue. The Islanders have said that they, first of all, are appalled at the recent political confrontation and criticised the fact that it has taken place at all. Of course there are two to a confrontation and to some extent that criticism has to involve myself as well as the Premier. I certainly would not want to read all of the statement, but I shall read a couple of relevant parts. It says: 
Much of the information given out by the Queensland Premier is incorrect. He has gone into considerable detail, no doubt to impress upon the people his intimate knowledge of the area. This would have been very impressive except that most of the detail was wrong. 
In respect of tractors the statement said: 
The Stephen Island tractor is not at Murray Island but rather at Darnley Island. . . . This tractor was never 'sitting rusting on beaches' and has been in constant use in co-operative operations with a driver from Stephen Island. 
In regard to housing the statement says: 
The Premier's ignorance concerning co-operative houses is understandable when it is remembered that neither he nor any of his officers have been on to Darnley Island since the Co-operative began operations, in spite of invitations and opportunities. ... In point of fact 3 Co-operative houses are all but complete, two others well under way, an office building completed: all on Darnley Island while on Murray several houses and a workshop are almost complete. 
Referring to shipping- I think honourable members will remember the criticism about the vessel  Miss Doreen-  the statement says: 
Remarks concerning  'Miss Doreen'  made by the Premier were complete untruths. 
The statement goes into several pages and concludes: 
Many of the Premier's accusations involved the Eastern Islands which he has not visited for 9 years. There is no denying mistakes having been made, but priceless experience has been gained by the people working for themselves and handling their own affairs. The old Queensland attitude of doing what boss says and accepting what he chose to give is past. Charity is not wanted. 
In fairness I have to acknowledge that I have not read the entire statement. I think it is appropriate that honourable members should have the  benefit of the statement because the Islanders especially complained in their statement that nobody asked the people of the Torres Strait what is true and what is not true. They are the ones who know. In the interests of truth I seek leave to have the statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill when enacted will be the continuing legislative authority by which funds will be made available to the States for the purpose of implementing programs of assistance to Aboriginal people. On the basis of advice from the then AttorneyGeneral it has been the practice since 1968 to introduce each year during the Budget Session the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bills for this purpose. Such Bills have been presented in accordance with section 96 of the Constitution and have contained conditions under which the Minister may release funds to the States and recover moneys not expended for the purposes for which they were provided. 
Following upon comments made by the AuditorGeneral in his Special Report on the Administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the method of appropriation of funds for State programs was changed in the financial year 1974-75. Instead of the funds being provided from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, as in previous years, States grants were appropriated under division 806 in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1974-75. This Bill, if passed into law, will replace the practice by which a States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill has been introduced each year, and will provide for the payment to the States in any year of such amounts as are appropriated by Parliament for that purpose in that year. Such standing legislation will also overcome a deficiency in the present situation in that there is at present no specific legislative authority in terms of section 96 of the Constitution for payment to the States during the Supply period, as the annual States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) legislation has not been enacted in past years until after the introduction of the Budget. 
In previous years my predecessors used the opportunity of the introduction of the annual States grants Bills to give Parliament detailed information of Aboriginal affairs programs undertaken by direct funding as well as through State instrumentalities. In future years this information will be made available to the Parliament in other ways, particularly in the Department's annual report, but for this year I take this occasion to carry on the practice to date. I therefore seek the agreement of the House to the incorporation in  Hansard  of several tables setting out the broad purposes of the proposed payments to the States in 1975-76, as well as details of programs directly funded by the Department during 1974- 75. Table 1 shows the proposed payments to the States during 1975-76 as well as corresponding payments in 1974-75, broken down by State and by function. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  . A total of $355,056.36 has been paid from the vote 'Other Services-Support for Aboriginal Sporting Activities' during 1974-75 made up as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The financial assistance given to Aboriginal Arts and Crafts Pty Ltd over the last S years has been as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question number 3304  Hansard,  1 5 October, 1975, page 2 188. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The N.A.C.C. adopted the following resolution at its meeting in Townsville in March 1975: 'That the Minister for the Media be requested to have published the minutes of all meetings of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee from November 1973 and onward for distribution to Aboriginal communities. That copies be free to each Aboriginal community groups, towns, cities, reserves, settlements and missions. That these be on sale throughout Australia through the Offices of the Australian Government Publishing Service, which is administered by the media department to those interested in Aboriginal policy in the general Australia public. Also at the same time move that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have for distribution and reading copies of the Minutes of the Meetings of the N.A.C.C. That these be sent as soon as possible on a regular basis. That this be part of the N.A.C.C. 's public education program. Also so as to lessen the credibility gap that has developed between the N.A.C.C. and our regions due to inadequate communication '. 
I have taken the matter up with the Minister for the Media and the extent to which the Government can assist in publishing and distributing the minutes of the N.A.C.C. is being examined. 
I hope that it will be possible for the N.A.C.C. to be funded in the near future to establish a Secretariat of its own. 
If the N.A.C.C. wishes to use part of the funds made available to it to distribute its minutes I would have no objection. 
For the information of honourable members I present copies of tables relating to the second reading speech on the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1975 1 made in this House on 22 October 1 975. On that occasion leave was granted for these tables to be incorporated in  Hansard.  However it has subsequently been established that this has not been possible due to the volume of material. Due to the limited number available reference copies of these tables have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. In addition, a limited number can be obtained on request by honourable members from the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill and the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Muramulla Gurindji Cattle Company was formed in Victoria and shares are held in trust for the whole Community . . . The Mudbra people at Wattie Creek are an accepted part of the whole community. 
There are 30 Mudbra people living at Wattie Creek at the moment and their interest in Pastoral Lease No. 80S is proportionate to their interest in the Muramulla Gurindji Cattle Company. 
Mudbra traditional land lies to the east of Wattie Creek, roughly in the triangle from Newcastle Waters to Cattle Creek to Montejinnie 
The Mudbra people are presently split into groups inside and outside their traditional country. One group is seeking urban land in Elliott through their housing association and another has displayed some interest in a cattle property in their traditional country but have not made any firm approach as yet. 
I appreciate the point made by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  It is unquestionably the case, of course, that the Registrar is to be an extremely important person. As I see it the honourable gentleman's anticipation is a clear indication that he expects this legislation to be effective. When all is said and done the legislation is designed to incorporate councils and associations, and the extent to which this is done will reflect the spontaneity and the voluntary wish on the part of organisations to register under an Australian Government law. The situation in the 6 States at the present time is that there are laws that enable registration or incorporation to take place and those laws will continue to prevail. 
-I know that the honourable member is talking about Part III. It will be optional for any council or association to choose between the Australian Government law and the State law. The honourable gentleman talked about the importance of the Registrar. The Registrar will be important only if the legislation attracts that kind of response. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 

-Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch the honourable member for Wentworth had raised 2 matters concerning the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill 1975. One was about the power of the Registrar. I had been pointing out to the honourable gentleman that he had anticipated the success of the legislation because he regards the Registrar as having prospects of being a very busy man. I assure the honourable gentleman that the provisions are such that the Registrar is certainly very much under the influence and control of the provisions of this Bill- an Act, as it shall become- and the regulations to be made under it. I think the first thing the honourable gentleman should have regard for is that the Registrar shall be appointed by the Minister and shall have such duties, functions and powers as are provided by this Bill and by the regulations, and that is the limit of his power.  (Quorum formed).  The Registrar is very much, indeed almost exclusively under the influence of this Bill and the regulations made under it. The Minister determines regulations but of course the Parliament also acts in that respect. Sub-clause 4 (4) provides that both the Registrar and the  Deputy  Registrars shall be officers of the Australian Public Service. I think it is important for the honourable gentleman to note that sub-clause (5) says that the Registrar and the  Deputy  Registrars shall hold office as such during the pleasure of the Minister. So one can hardly expect irresponsibility in that respect. They are appointed by the Minister. They are capable of being dismissed by the Minister. 
-He is an important person. There is no question about it. He has very extensive prescribed functions to fulfil. I am not sure in what context the honourable gentleman is making this point so heavily. 
-If the honourable gentleman believes that the office is so important as to justify the appointment of a Second Division officer there is no quibbling about that and there is nothing in the Bill which would prevent that kind of recognition. 
The honourable gentleman raised next the question of Aboriginal councils. I think he was putting at one stage or another that it was undesirable to make it possible for these councils to operate outside the Northern Territory; that they would conflict with the local government concept that prevails in each of the 6 States. I think there is some misapprehension and some misunderstanding in this bit of objectivity. There are many reserves in Australia outside the Northern Territory where it is competent, possible and indeed likely for a council to be incorporated and to act. In New South Wales there could be- I am just pulling a figure from the top of my head- in excess of 60 Aboriginal reserves. It is quite possible that in a reserve area which is embraced by and included in a local government area an Aboriginal group would seek to incorporate under the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act, as it will become, to exercise and fulfil a function of the type that is outlined in sub-clause 11 (3) of the Bill. The role of an Aboriginal housing association under this legislation would in no way be in conflict with a local government obligation or activity in the Aboriginal council area. For example, if there is a reserve in the local government area of Moree, the Aboriginal group could constitute itself as a council and incorporate under this legislation to conduct a garbage service, a water supply and an electricity supply. That is one of the very significant purposes of facilitating such incorporation under this legislation. It is certainly not implied anywhere in the provisions of the Bill that such incorporations would take place recklessly or indiscreetly. There are many provisions, more in Part III of the Bill which we have not yet come to - 
-I am sorry. We are dealing with Part III so I can go on to discuss it at greater length than I had intended. The fact of the matter is that the Registrar receives an application under clause 1 1 and then he has a number of things to do. He seeks the views of the Aboriginal people who want to constitute a group and incorporate under the legislation. Then he is able to refer the application to the Minister for his direction. Clause 16 says that where the Registrar is satisfied with respect to an application under section 11, he shall do certain things, and those things are spelt out. Sub-clause 16 (3) says: 
Where, by reason of the circumstances of an application under section 1 1 , the Registrar is of the view that he should not constitute the area to which the application relates as an Aboriginal Council area under sub-section ( 1), he shall refer the application to the Minister for his discretion. 
The Minister in terms of clause 1 7 of the Bill may give very precise directions. Where an application is referred to the Minister under clause 16, the Minister may direct the Registrar to constitute that area or that part as an Aboriginal Council area and, if he does so, he shall specify the boundaries, the name and the functions of the area. I think it makes it perfectly clear that there is proper anticipation of the problems to which the honourable gentleman has referred. For example, the Minister can specify the precise functions. So there is no possibility at all of an Aboriginal Council in Moree or in any place covered by a local government area usurping a function which is already provided or which would be provided by the council unnecessarily. I think that that lays at rest the concern expressed by the honourable gentleman. 
I am a bit surprised that he has put these 2 issues into sharp relief. The first was his concern about the Registrar. It is apparent that we all regard the Registrar as a man of very great importance, and he is bound to be a competent officer and a member of the Public Service. I think that I have placated the honourable gentleman's anxieties in that respect. I will be surprised if I have not done likewise in respect of the second matter. Does the honourable gentleman still harbour any idea that it is a bad thing to be able to constitute a council outside the Northern Territory? That is the issue he raised. I cannot see any affirmative response from him. It is extremely clear to anyone in this Committee that there is a necessity to ensure that if an Aboriginal group of people is to conduct an activity of the kind that is spelt out in the provisions of subclause (3) of clause 1 1- including such things as community amenities, welfare, garbage collection, roads, relief work, education or training, communications, electricity supply, water supply, sewerage, health and housing- it is our responsibility, since the States are ceding it to us and since we have in any case acquired it as a result of a referendum, to provide legislation which will make certain that such an organisation operates as legal entity. That is the purpose of this legislation. 
It is the Government's  bona fide  intention that it shall operate outside the Northern Territory as well as in the Northern Territory. Of course, in the Northern Territory there are many autonomous communities which operate virtually as local government authorities, with a full range of authorities. The honourable gentleman is well aware of that. Many people in the community and indeed in the Parliament are not aware of the comprehensive range of services which is conducted by such councils in the Northern Territory. Yet there has never been an adequate arrangement to facilitate their incorporation, and that alone provides the justification and the urgent necessity for this legislation. But added to that is the obvious need to ensure that any similar activity conducted by Aboriginal groups should be legalised. Even if there are provisions operating under State laws now which enable a group in a State to incorporate itself, much of it is done under co-operative and company legislation which is not attuned to the Aboriginal processes, way of life and voting systems. This legislation is designed to accommodate not the peculiarities but the special considerations that are necessary in respect of this type of activity. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has expressed some concern generally, without bringing down to specifics the nature of his concern. He contended, in a very vague and general way and in a way that is clearly lacking in any confidence, that this Bill might be too sophisticated, I suppose, and might reflect too much of the non-Aboriginal standards that prevail into an Aboriginal scene. Of course all of us would be entitled to some misgiving along those lines because this whole question involves us in a scene to which we are not indigenous and in respect of which we lack understanding.  Mr Justice  Woodward used the term 'spiritual feeling', and I suppose all of us would be deficient in that kind of sensitivity. That being the case we have to acknowledge that we are doing the best we can in a difficult situation. I think the legislation provides for a considerable amount of versatility and flexibility. At least there has been a very clear intention on the part of the architects of the legislation, my several predecessors, the parliamentary draftsmen and their advisers from my Department, to facilitate flexibility so that Aboriginal people can take a choice. 
On the question of boundaries, which was raised in the first instance by the honourable gentleman, there is a clear intention in the Bill to enable boundaries to strike lines which have never been identified previously in any nonAboriginal objective. We are not emulating any local government boundaries or any existing organisations ' boundaries. We are simply talking about Aborigines living in a particular area. Surely that indicates the intent to accommodate Aboriginal people no matter where they live. Boundaries will be drawn in such a way that their needs of incorporation will be properly accommodated. I think the honourable gentleman is fishing around and that might not be the best method to select to make the point that he is seeking to make. How else can one express the intention but in terms of a boundary? The Registrar will have a considerable range of obligations to fulfil in looking at that application and he shall discuss the boundaries with the people who are the subject of the application and their original application can be withdrawn, modified or altered. He will hold the capacity at all times to reflect their views. 
Similarly, the honourable gentleman talked about elections, who should vote and matters of that kind when he raised the point about our seeking to impose our values. I think we can easily underrate the extent to which elections are understood by Aboriginal people in Australia and we ought not to be deterred from taking a course which will help to expose them to some experience in this respect. One obviously does not know much about anything unless one is involved and has a lash at it. We have often heard people being very careful about giving their kids any money because they do not know how to spend it. They will probably never know how to spend it until they get to handle it. I have noticed that Aboriginal people who are exposed to what we describe as our sophisticated democratic processes show a capacity to catch on very quickly indeed. 
Varying degrees of achievement are in evidence around Australia but we must bear in mind that we have 41 Aboriginal electorates covering the whole of Australia. There are 41 members of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee and there has been a very high incidence of voting in those elections. Their degree of sophistication exceeds that of nonAboriginal people in local government areas in New South Wales, for example. The incidence of Aboriginal voluntary voting is more than double that of non-Aboriginal voluntary voting. So it is very impressive to see how these people can and do respond. I acknowledge that there are people who are not practised in these matters to the utmost degree. The honourable gentleman talked about our seeking to require both men and women to vote and that that could be at variance with Aboriginal practices. I understand that it is in some parts of Australia at least, but he should note that there is no obligation for Aboriginal women to vote or for Aboriginal men to vote in this situation unless they choose to do so. The legislation makes specific mention of that. 
When we use the word 'electing' there are many ways of interpreting that word. In another place the honourable gentleman's colleagues are electing not to pass the Appropriation Bills. That does not mean that they are electing people. One can elect to have an orange or one can elect to have an apple, but it does not necessarily mean that we are going to be involved in our traditional form of electoral process. The measures involved in this cognate debate make it very clear that if Aboriginal people choose to select their people in a way that differs from our traditional way, they may do so. I am told that in some of the land council meetings in the Northern Territory without calling for nominations, seconding, voting or anything else, the acknowledged Aboriginal leader walks to the head of the table, to the chairman's position, to the place of authority, and takes the chair. It is competent that that can happen and under the legislation that we will be discussing subsequently and under this legislation as well. 
I am not sure that the honourable gentleman has read this legislation to the extent that he should have done, but if he has done so he will come to understand that there are many provisions which have the effect of indicating that the draftsmen and their advisers- their clients, shall we say- have bent over backwards to facilitate Aboriginal initiative and the Aboriginal style of conducting things. The Registrar will determine the manner in which the election is to be conducted and he will explain to the Aborigines the manner in which the election is to be conducted. That provision is contained in clause 21 of the Bill. Then clause 23 (3) states: 
The Rules of an Aboriginal Council with respect to any matter may be based on Aboriginal custom. 
If the honourable gentleman goes through the Bill and finds that kind of accommodating provision he will come to understand that the basic objective of the legislation is to have a legal entity and to have some kind of requirements which indicate a decent course of behaviour that should be followed in the course of electing people to places of authority in the councils and associations and that the councils and associations should conduct themselves in a decent manner, because we are dealing with an incorporation process it is designed to facilitate a legal entity. So it cannot be a complete shambles by any means. To the extent that it has been possible there has been a very accommodating attitude which will have regard for traditional Aboriginal customs. 
There is not a lot I want to say on this matter. The 3 clauses being dealt with do not represent any departure from the norm, the accepted practice and the tradition in respect of these matters. Of course the legal reason for the definition in the Bills is that it ensures that constitutionality of the Bills under section 51, placitum (xxvi) of the Constitution. I do not need to go into the matter any further than that. This question of definition has always been a difficult problem as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  would readily concede. I make the point that the present Government follows the same working definition of 'Aboriginal' as that propounded by the honourable member for Mackellar when he was the Minister in charge of Aboriginal affairs in a Liberal-Country Party Government back in, I think, 1968. At that stage there was a trinity of criteria relating to these matters and 3 checkpoints, if you like. They were to this effect: Firstly, an Aborigine was a person of Aboriginal descent. There is nothing confusing about that. There are mixed bloods and pure bloods, but if they are of Aboriginal descent they meet the first criterion. The second criterion is that the person seeks to identify as an Aboriginal person. The third criterion is that the person concerned is accepted as an Aborigine by the community with which he or she is associated. I do not know whether anyone can embellish that set of principles which have worked with reasonable effectiveness. 
I suppose we will always be able to point to somebody who benefits wrongfully under Aboriginal legislation. I am not sure that it is fair to do so. If there is present identifiable Aboriginal blood, it is remarkable how Aboriginal characteristics seem to predominate. The issues that often give more concern are where a nonAboriginal person is married to an Aboriginal person and is deriving benefit under Aboriginal laws as a result of that circumstance. It seems to me that the criteria that we have have stood the test of time. Nobody here this afternoon in the course of this debate has given any reason why there should be a refinement. I suppose that for 23 years the Liberal-Country Party governments searched around for a better definition. The States have done no better in defining an Aboriginal person. 
It is a workable arrangement. It is acceptable to the Aboriginal people. There are certainly no uprisings in evidence against the way this definition has been working. I have not been inundated by complaints. No representations have been made to me by any Aboriginal organisation or individual, to the best of my recollection. I think this is a storm in a teacup. I suggest that as the definition has stood the test for such a long time it will more than likely prove effective in this legislation. Doubtless there will be a review time. I have no doubt that experience will cause the Government to amend this legislation at a subsequent period. If anyone is capable of contriving a better approach to this matter, particularly as a result of experience, there is no reason why a new definition should not be adopted the next time the legislation is under review. 
I do not want to keep the Committee very long. I think it is important to mention in respect of the comment made by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  that the Commission is entitled in terms of the recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Woodward to support and to expertise. Provisions are made for such appointments. These provisions are covered under Part II. Clause 1 8, one of the clauses which deals with this, states: 
Any staff required to assist the Commissioner shall be persons appointed or employed under the Public Service Act . . . 
In fact temporary staff can be engaged, if necessary, under section 82 of the Public Service Act. Clause 19 is very relevant. The notation beside the clause reads: Consultants to Commissioner. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman regards this as adequate or inadequate. However, clause 19 states: 
1 ) The Commissioner, with the approval of the Public Service Board, may, on behalf of Australia, engage persons having suitable qualifications and experience as consultants to the Commissioner. 
The terms and conditions on which persons are engaged . . . shall be such terms and conditions as are determined by the Minister with the approval of the Public Service Board. 
The fact is that under clause 1 9 consultants to the Commissioner may be engaged on terms determined by the Minister with the approval of the Public Service Board. There does not seem to me to be anything of a restrictive nature in the legislation that would cause anyone to get the impression that there will be an inadequate range of expertise. 
I think mention has been made of the fact that one commissioner is recommended and there seems to me to be good reasons why these affairs should be in the hands of one person. In the first instance, after the initial volume of claims is dealt with, it is very likely that the work of the Lands Commissioner will level out and the work may be undertaken at a desirable pace that is compatible with the desires of the Aboriginal people to seek and obtain autonomy over their own land. Where the acquisition of land is involved claims can be regulated at a rate which has a relationship to the availability of finance for acquisition purposes. This process will not be endless in terms of intensive hearings. I should imagine that after several years have transpired and the initial large volume of claims has been dealt with it will be possible that occasional claims will be heard by the Commissioner. 
It is extremely important in my view that the Commissioner should be a person who is virtually saturated in knowledge of the Northern Territory and understanding of Aboriginal traditions and customs and land utilisation matters. Of course any knowledge in that respect on the part of such a person would become an expanding dimension of knowledge. He would be exposed to an extremely wide range of experiences. If the matter were in the hands of one person rather than several we would be able to see the elements of consistency and high principle emerging. Persons who would be appearing before him would understand the philosophy and the form of approach which is taken and in most respects it would seem to me that many benefits would be derived from one commissioner being responsible rather than there being more than one commissioner. 
The question of Aboriginal expertise being associated with the Commissioner of course is of dubious content or size. Nevertheless, there is nothing to exclude Aboriginal persons from being associated with the Commission in terms of clauses 18 and 19 as I have already enunciated. But, in addition to that, the land councils especially, and the land trusts, will be providing a wide range of experience for Aboriginal people. 
I think it is known by honourable gentlemen opposite that a number of Aboriginal people have already been associated with the Northern Land Council particularly and, to some extent, the Central Land Council, in verifying and checking out the bona fides of claims made by Aboriginal people. It is very wrong for anyone to get the impression that the large number of claims pending indicate the extent to which land will be made available. They have to be claims that are properly sustained and confirmed in terms of Aboriginal use and requirements, and Aboriginal people are the appropriate people to engage in activities of that kind. 
I do not question that even apart from the field operations which sometimes involve a personal contact with and the knowledge of Aboriginal communities and a knowledge of the sacred grounds and traditional land usage factors, there is a clerical component which I have no doubt will see a predominating involvement by Aboriginal people. So even if the Commissioner himself does not utilise such a large Aboriginal resource by virtue of the Public Service provisions and the availability of people employed under the terms of the Public Service Act, there are many other ways in which Aboriginal expertise will be utilised as a result of the introduction of this legislation. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is very good at advocating democratic processes but he is not such a good performer when he gets the opportunity to hold the reins of office, as has been the case in the past. 
The inability of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  to understand the legislation should in no way imply that it is simplistic in its concept. 
I regret that the honourable gentleman, like so many others, is falling out of touch and getting behind the times in regard to this matter. It is true that he has had an avid involvement and interest in Aboriginal affairs over the years, but his grasp is slipping. The fact of the matter is that there has been an intense involvement by my Department, by  Mr Justice  Woodward and by myself with Aboriginal people. Their views about these matters are well known. It is true that enlightenment is coming to bear more and more. All of us are being unburdened of our ignorance as we apply ourselves steadfastly to these matters. It has given to the Parliament this opportunity to look objectively at Aboriginal affairs because there is an accelerated process under way. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has raised a number of matters in a very vague way. He has made a wide sweeping condemnation of the legislation. It seems that on every clause we are going to get this contention that there should be further reference of the Bill, and that the Bill should be delayed. It is clear from what some honourable gentlemen opposite have said, that if the Bill is delayed for ever it will be a desirable thing from the standpoint of members of the Liberal and National Country Parties. They were in office a long time- 23 yearswithout doing anything effective on land rights. 
Here is a very worthwhile and realistic approach to this problem. That is not to say that it is without imperfections. No doubt there will be continuing review of this legislation. I have little doubt that there will be responses even within the next few days because there is an intensifying of the application to the matter. Hopefully, before the legislation is dealt with in another place there can be useful amendments that will reflect the attitude of the Aboriginal people. But I strongly doubt whether that will apply to the clause that is under consideration at the present time. Clause 24 provides that a Land Council shall compile and maintain a register. That register is to set out some facts that have never been gathered before. They will be gathered by people who have knowledge of Aboriginal customs and traditions, who have real associations with Aboriginal communities. Those people will be anthropological experts who are already working very closely with the northern and central Aboriginal Land Councils. They are obliged not only to compile the names of persons who, in the opinion of the Land Council, are the traditional Aboriginal owners of Aboriginal land in the area of the Land Council but also describe the boundaries over which that traditional ownership has been held. What greater objective could one have? The honourable gentleman will probably concede that it is a worthwhile objective. 
-The honourable gentleman might believe that there are difficulties in meeting that objective, but the objective is there. It is true that we are faced with a number of difficulties, but we are not running away from the job of trying to deal with the situation. The honourable gentleman talks about land rights. He says that there is nothing in the legislation effectively to bestow on people rights over their land. A number of matters have a bearing on this issue. I do not think he has lost sight of the fact, if he has been properly aware of it, that there are land trusts that are to hold land for people, as is indicated in a subsequent clause, clause 39, which is to the effect that the land trusts will hold title to the land in the Northern Territory for the benefit of Aboriginal communities or groups. I cannot expand upon clause 39 at this stage. 
It is very difficult to know what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is really advocating when one looks at this very simple clause of 4 lines. I do not think he is quibbling with the proposition that members of the land council should be Aborigines and that they should be chosen by Aborigines living in the area of the land council. I doubt whether he has made any complaint about that. The members are to be chosen in some form or other. I doubt whether he would want to contend that there should be a traditional nonAboriginal style of election prescribed in the legislation. What the remaining lines of the clause do are facilitate a choice of methods which would reflect the traditional custom of Aboriginal people. Someone has to make the decision or, if you like, give the imprimatur or the approval to that process. That is what the remaining lines of the clause enable to occur. They provide for 'such method, or methods, of choice as is, or are, approved by the Minister from time to time '. 
There are about 25 paragraphs covering many pages in the Woodward report which come under the heading of land councils. These paragraphs represent extremely sensitive considerations. So much of the propositions are concerned with Aboriginal traditions and the like. The legislation we are now considering is a most honest attempt to give effect to that. Here again I would be greatly advantaged if the honourable gentleman would make a constructive proposal. It is not beyond the wit of the Parliamentary 
Counsel to accommodate something that is sensible and positive rather than negative. There is a process in another place where constructive views can be accommodated by way of amendment. I have made it clear, and I assert the situation now, that there is likely to be some amending in another place proposed by the Government, apart from any other amendments that could be initiated privately. 
The general situation is that the selection and membership of land councils and the process associated with that are intended to ensure that the councils reflect rather than supplant existing traditional power structures. It is therefore not provided that members should be elected. It would be wrong to propose that they should be elected as a form of selection. The honourable member made the point about the size of land councils. He is aware that we have gone over this before. The councils we have now are of a considerable size. They are very indigenous. We do not have part-Aboriginals from the south on the councils at the present time. I have a list of 3 1 people before me at the moment who comprise the Northern Land Council. Many of them are known by their tribal names. I am personally acquainted with some of them. They are genuine representatives of Aboriginal people. But 31 members of a council make a very unwieldy council. Woodward has gone to some trouble to point out that we can put an Aboriginal person in a position of splendid isolation and extremely onerous responsibilities to stand on his own but he needs to be aided and abetted. For this period at least there seems to be merit in having a council that is well serviced with logistics and expertise. 
It is competent for councils to comprise a lesser number of people. It is competent for there to be many more than 2 councils. This legislation makes all that possible. For the time being, having regard to the initial role of these 2 councils, which is very much about seeking out the identity of the land and the owners- and a great deal of field work has been undertaken at considerable cost where the views of a wide range of people are extremely beneficial- there is a lot to be said for having Aborigines together in such numbers on but 2 councils. 
Mention has been made of the process of the election of members of a council. Honourable gentlemen opposite have referred to the Yirrkala people, and I think the Millingimbi people, who are indicating their preference to have a council of their own. I can see no reason why that should not occur in the future. But this clause is about the method of choosing these people. I would say that this was the brief given to the parliamentary draftsman: 'Can you, in drawing up clause 29, set out a form of words which will enable Aboriginal people to choose representatives to that council in the way that is most comparable to their customs and traditions and provide flexibility so that a Minister can identify the case they are putting and accommodate the objectives they have?' I think the draftsman has done a very good job. I hope that if the honourable gentleman has a more positive approach to the situation, even at some subsequent stage- and preferably at some subsequent stage- he might let me know. 
I do not pretend to make any profound observations about the matter to which the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has drawn attention in clause 31. I do not know the real reason for it. There are situations in the Aboriginal area where a tribal person or someone who is held in very great respect could be projected into a meeting situation as a  chairman  and could go on steadfastly to demonstrate incapacity for that role. Somebody who stands high in the traditional peer system is not necessarily in his own right capable of establishing superiority or leadership qualities in a formal meeting arrangement. Although I do not profess to know what has motivated the draftsman or even the people who have briefed him about the requirements of the legislation, it could well be that this point has been considered and the opportunity has been provided for a small number of members to indicate their dissatisfaction and to go to the person with whom they are dissatisfied. This will not necessarily ensure the results they are seeking. 
There is a second choice if members can go to the  Deputy Chairman  to convene a meeting. Presumably it will be a special meeting with a special purpose, although the Bill does not spell that out effectively. I should imagine that that is the objective. If that situation occurred, there could be some merit in having as  Chairman  somebody who would be more impartial to the point of conflict prevailing at the meeting, rather than the person who is the subject of the conflict being the  Chairman.  The whole arrangement could be an expression of dissatisfaction with the chairmanship. I do not really know; but, if honourable members have a more plausible explanation than mine, I would be glad to hear it. I think there would be some merit in facilitating the arrangement, for the purposes which I have outlined. I agree with the honourable gentleman's suggestion that I give further consideration to clause 35. 
I would not want the comment of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  to pass without giving my reaction. I am referring to his suggestion that we are riding over Aboriginal opinion, or something to that effect. He would know from the terms of reference of the Commission and the appointment of  Mr Justice  Woodward that a great deal of dependence was placed on the judge to find the answers to a wide range of problems. There have been 2 substantial and very impressive reports. It is not to say that they are immutable or that they cannot be challenged. The Government has accepted and embraced the principles of the recommendations in the Woodward report. The fact is that  His  Honour made extensive inquiries among Aboriginal communities. He has not ridden roughshod and he has a lot to say about the question of land trusts and the holders of title which is the heading for a substantial section of the report. I want to refer to several paragraphs in the report.  Mr Justice  Woodward said: 
This then brings me to the difficult question as to who should hold the legal title to Aboriginal lands. 
He acknowledges that that is a difficult problem. He continues: 
As I pointed out in my first report, there are three substantially different ways in which this could be done and a number of possible variations of these three themes. 
In the first report he exposed the options available, but I will not take the time of the Committee to deal with them now. He summarised them in this way: 
Broadly speaking the choice lies between a council or trust basis, a community basis and a clan basis. Towards the end of my first report (paras. 281-301) I suggested the adoption of the community basis. I did so because, in my visits to the various communities in the Territory, I believed that I had been able to detect a fairly clear consensus of Aboriginal opinion in that direction. 
In the face of that it would be very wrong for me to sit here and have my silence appear to represent acquiescence with the suggestion that we are riding roughshod over the Aboriginal people or not listening to their views.  Mr Justice  Woodward is making the point that he very much listened to and was greatly influenced by Aboriginal opinion. He said: 
I also felt the approach was a sensible one because the community is the basic political and social grouping for Aborigines in modern society. 
He gave the views of the Northern Land Council in these terms:  ... the Northern Land Council has pressed for a council or trust system. 
That is the Council to which I referred a moment ago. It is representative of a very large part of the Territory and has some 3 1 members at present.  Mr Justice  Woodward continued: 
I am satisfied that there are good reasons underlying the Northern Land Council's submission . . . 
They appreciated that it was not practicable to vest small areas of land in the individual clans and so they devised a scheme which would achieve substantially the same results through a trust system. 
I now accept that this is the system which is likely to work best, because it is in harmony with traditional Aboriginal social organisation. 
I do not presume to have the knowledge or capacity to embellish what His Honour has put. I think everyone would accept that those words I have read from the report indicate that he has made an honest endeavour to come to grips with this problem, has canvassed the options and has firmly nominated and unequivocally said that the trust system is the one that suits the situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Properties purchased for Aborigines with public funds by both the previous and the present Governments were established pastoral properties. Besides satisfying land rights for the Aboriginal groups involved, it was also intended that the properties would provide the communities with an economic base. The properties have been operated at a level commensurate with the aspirations of the Aboriginal owners. 
(a) The general recession in the beef cattle industry has in most cases prevented economic objectives being achieved. 
Loans made in relation to these properties were on the basis that the terms of repayment would be determined after an evaluation of the economic performance of each group. Due to the difficult situation in the beef industry this has not yet been possible and there are consequently no defaults in repayments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)51,754,500. 

a ) Pastoral Lease 805 Dagaguru situated in the Western portion of Wave Hill, Northern Territory $605,500. 
b ) Pastoral Lease 706 Amanbidjo on Kildurk Station in Northern Territory $829,000. 
Pastoral Lease 594 Willowra situated west of Ti Tree in Central Australia $320,000. 
If the question relates to ( I ) above, the answer is no. However, residential blocks and business premises in the Northern Territory have been purchased on behalf of Aborigines from funds made available by this Department. 
Negotiations for the properties comprising 9291 square kilometres are continuing. Until these are finalised I am not at liberty to disclose which properties are involved. 
The following properties have been purchased in the States: 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice of my intention to present on General Business Thursday No. 7 a Bill for an Act relating to the provision of land in the Northern Territory for Aborigines. 
-I give notice of my intention to present on General Business Thursday No. 14 a Bill for an Act to provide for the constitution of Aboriginal councils and the incorporation of associations of Aboriginals and for matters connected therewith. 
If  Mr Speaker  had been here I would have said to him that both he and I have been through triumphs and disasters since we were first elected to this Parliament on 10 December 1955. That being the case, it gives me much pleasure to congratulate him on his election to the Speakership. Likewise, congratulations are due to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
The honourable member who preceded me in this debate, the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  was good enough to pay a tribute to Len Reynolds who was the member for Barton for many years and who was regarded as being one of the most dedicated, sincere, accomplished and achieving members of Parliament that the Parliament has ever seen. I thank the present honourable member for Barton for the tribute that he paid to Len Reynolds who voluntarily retired at the last election. The election of 13 December- preceded as it was by connivance, conspiracy and obstruction against the elected government- has thrown up the remarkable results which can now be seen in this chamber. I refer to the assemblage of members in terms of political parties. It is a disturbing spectacle for any democrat to observe that the Liberal Party with 3 248 000 votes or 42 per cent of the total votes can gain 68 seats in this House while the Australian Labor Party with 64 868 more votes than the Liberal Party, with a total of 3 313 000 votes or 42.8 per cent of the total, can gain only 36 seats in this House. Let me put the essence of that again: With 42 per cent of the votes the Liberal Party gained 68 seats; with 42.8 per cent of the votes the Labor Party gained only 36 seats. 
Even more privileged than the Liberal Party is the National Country Party. That Party succeeded in attracting only 853 000 votes which is 1 1 per cent of the total. Yet, with 1 1 per cent of the total votes it gained 23 seats in this House. These dramatic accounts of electoral inequalities reflect the urgent need for Australian electoral reform. The effect of the present system is that for every seat won the Labor Party had to gain 92 000 votes; the Liberal Party had to gain 47 000 votes; and the National Country Party had to gain 37 000 votes. 
Many honourable members opposite are here by virtue of a gerrymander which has been made possible by the continuous obstruction by the Liberal Party and National Country Party of efforts made by the previous Labor Government to bring electoral reform to this country, to get rid of the 20 per cent differential above and below the quota which has thrown up this remarkable situation. To show the absurdity of the present situation, if one takes the total votes of the Labor Party and divides them by the votes per seat gained by the National Country Party, the Labor Party would have gained 89 seats. If the same method applied to the Liberal Party figures, the Labor Party would have gained 68 seats. So there we have the situation. All the talk in the world about democracy will not make the Parliament or the country democratic. Only the government of the day can do it in an electoral sense. The process is through a fair and equitable electoral distribution system. 
To make things worse, those who sit opposite now acknowledge the lack of principle by which the Senate is for the first time conceded the right to determine monetary affairs, including Supply Bills, so a government can be thrown out by the vote of a senator. I ask honourable gentlemen to reflect on the great disparity in the electoral value of any senator. A senator from New South Wales must gain a quota of 232 588 votes to be elected. A senator from Tasmania needs to gain only 20 2 1 1 votes to be elected- one tenth. A senator from the Northern Territory needs only 9476 votes to be declared elected. So we have this inequality. Remember that there are 10 senators from each State. That is the process of diluting the vote. Now the very fundamental and cardinal principle of one man one vote and equal vote equal value has been watered down because senators have been given the right to determine whether a government can stay in office. 
Many matters concerning the undemocratic assault on the elected Labor Government shocked millions of Australians and shook the faith of the world in the Australian parliamentary process. The Prime Minister has acquiesced in that assault. The Governor-General has been deeply involved. All of us regret the circumstances which have damaged the prestige of his office. There is nationwide unrest and disquiet about his involvement and that of the Chief Justice in the affairs of 1 1 November. These events cannot escape significance and cannot be denied attention. The sacking of the Whitlam Labor Government was the first occasion that a Prime Minister was sacked by the Crown in 200 years. I am not talking just about Australia but also all those countries which previously had been called the Commonwealth countries. This is the first time in 200 years, since King George III sacked Lord North. So it is no good trying to gag parliamentary and public debate on these dubious if not reprehensible events. 
If confidence is to be restored in the institution of Parliament and the traditional democratic processes, all the facts should be revealed. We should make it possible for people who know the facts to come clean. I am not talking just about the side issues, about the present Prime Minister, the then Leader of the Opposition, skulking in the adjoining room when the Prime Minister was being sacked. I am not talking about the car of the Leader of the Opposition being surreptiously spirited away behind the tea-tree so that the Prime Minister, who was arriving at Government House, could not know the Leader of the Opposition was there, because if the Prime Minister had known the Governor-General might have been sacked. I am talking about serious matters. 
Many matters, in my view, are of such importance that they concern the privileges and traditions of the Parliament, so they should be referred to the Privileges Committee. On 4 January 1642 Charles I raided the Parliament of the people, the House of Commons, to render Pym and Hampden and three of their colleagues into custody. Now we have a Black Rod to remind us of that event- this figure which insulates the Parliament from the Crown. On 1 1 November an entire government that was given a mandate twice in 2 years was sacked without reference to the Queen of Australia. The  Speaker,  entrusted as he is with the responsibility of safeguarding the rights and traditions of the House, in my view could do well to consider instituting a process involving the Privileges Committee and of putting all these matters under examination. I would like some matters examined. For example, I would like to know how the leading attorney for the United States 
Westinghouse Corporation, William Jentes of Kirkland and Ellis, Chicago, was able to predict and publish in  Nucleonics Week  of 6 November 1975 that there would be an election in Australia on 13 December- right to the day. Of course that was in connection with the incessant competition for energy resources in the United States and he was able to indicate that uranium would be available at bargain basement prices after the election which he predicted 5 weeks prior to it occurring. 
Has there been an international conspiracy designed to determine major political issues in this country? We have been disturbed to hear from the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  this afternoon a contention that the Central Intelligence Agency might have been involved in a conspiracy surrounding the events of 1 1 November. The Privileges Committee, in my view, should be asked to establish whether the Governor-General fulfilled the constitutional requirement of section 62 of the Constitution which says that there shall be a Federal Executive Council to advise the Governor-General in the Government of the Commonwealth. As a member of the Executive Council I know that I was not consulted except that a short time before the event occurred, in company with  Senator Cavanagh,  who with me and the GovernorGeneral at that time comprised the Executive Council, there was speculation by the GovernorGeneral as to what might occur. The general tenor of his attitude at that time was that it was fair to put all those senators under pressure. He even nominated some of those who might have crumbled if that pressure had been allowed to continue, and he thought it reasonable that it should continue. 
I think the Privileges Committee could do many things. Did the Governor-General defy or fail to seek or take the advice of the then Prime Minister, the then Attorney-General or the Crown Solicitor as it was his duty to do in terms of the Constitution and in terms of all the traditions? Or did he substitute this obligation improperly with the advice of the then Leader of the Opposition, the then shadow AttorneyGeneral and the Chief Justice? It was the Chief Justice alone, not the Chief Justice with his colleagues who comprise the High Court; and the Chief Justice is a former Liberal Minister who is related to a present Minister. I believe the Privileges Committee should probe the claims that the present Prime Minister and others conspired to timetable the passing of Supply to coincide with the sacking of the Labor Government. 
There is another very important matter which the Privileges Committee should probe. I believe it should seek to dignify the parliamentary institution by demanding to know why its corporate voice was not heard because of the disinclination of the Governor-General to receive the  Speaker  of this House on 1 1 November with the message that he was charged by a majority of ten in this House to convey to the Governor-General. After all, the  Speaker  had an important message to the effect that the House had noted that the Supply crisis was over, that the House had no confidence in the caretaker Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, and that the House in fact reaffirmed its confidence in  Mr Whitlam  as Prime Minister. 
Another question for the Privileges Committee to probe is why the Governor-General refused to receive the  Speaker.  Would he have been responsive to the views of the House if he had received the  Speaker  or would his refusal to meet the  Speaker  in itself be an indication of his indifference to the views of the elected members of this Parliament? I put these matters not in a way which is designed to disparage the Governor-General because I have participated loyally in these processes since 1955 following my first election. But I believe all of us have an obligation to make certain that the actions of the Governor-General are established, to the extent that it is possible, as being beyond reproach. The responsibility with which the  Speaker  has been entrusted to safeguard and uphold the rights, dignity and traditions of this Parliament can be adequately fulfilled only if the  Speaker,  in my view, takes the course available to him and has these matters incorporated into comprehensive terms of reference for the attention of the Privileges Committee which would comprise members from both sides of the Parliament. After all, to impugn this high office brings concern to all Australians and all members. 
I believe with a sense of duty that there would be many who would join with me in calling on the  Speaker  to take the course that I have advocated in order that the Governor-General can be exonerated from the very serious charges that are being levelled from one end of the country to another and across the international scene as well. I ask those who sit opposite whether on the one hand they believe that this position is important enough to take the course of action that I have advocated or whether, one the other hand, they believe there is something to hide which could justify their own negative attitude about these matters. 
What were the election issues? The election certainly was not just about the question of dole bludgers although many Australians could reasonably be expected to believe that was the case as a result of the indoctrinating processes that took place through the media in this country. It was certainly not fought on the size of the deficit which is likely to remain about the same under this Government which has set about trimming about $360m out of a Budget of some $2 1 billion. 
-I think the honourable member for Chifley would be pretty close to the mark if he is referring to the deficit. The election was certainly not fought on the alleged improprieties concerned with the loans affair because Khemlani has been discredited with all his insinuation and innuendo. The examination and the sleuthing by the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have failed to establish any wrong-doing on the part of those who were involved in this matter as members of the previous administration. Yet I believe in effect the election was about the loans affair; it was about Labor's bid to gain public equity of a substantial degree in Australia's resources; it was about the world's biggest supply of natural gas worth thousands of millions of dollars lying off the North- West Shelf of Australia of which people were demanding delivery. It was about the untold millions of dollars worth of uranium- probably the world's largest deposit- which was being demanded at bargain basement prices by the United States of America. 
When it is all said and done we have seen coups in other countries. Chile is mere fish and chips compared with the great resources of Australia. So the poor old Australian was mesmerised into thinking that the election was about dole bludgers. He was mesmerised into thinking that it was about Budget deficits which are now being diverted not to welfare but to pad the pockets of wealthy graziers and mining corporations. Disillusioned as the people of Australia must be now, the facts are that all the time this election was about the intention of a Labor Government to gain control over the equity in Australia's natural resources. 
So I believe it was ordered that Labor had to go, and gone it has. Now we see the harvest being reaped. We see millions of dollars being headed off in the wrong direction. We see an assault on the pensioners and an assault on health which has received a cut of $7m this year. In addition, drugs are to be removed from the free list. Subsidised health benefits which are provided at half-price are to be taken away from recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits. A total of 250 Commonwealth projects which were being dealt with by the Department of Housing and Construction, as it was known at the time, are to be grounded. The Australian Housing Corporation has been abolished, involving the abdication by the Commonwealth of its responsibility for housing. So we see the election issues have been distorted in the way they have been conveyed to the Australian people. I believe that the facts should be brought to light by way of instituting a thorough investigation through the process of the House of Representatives Standing Committee of Privileges. Only in this way can we cause the Governor-General again to be regarded as being of good repute in Australia. 
-My question is directed to the the Prime Minister. Does he recall saying in an interview published on 12 February that 'we do not want building societies to be in a position where as a result of our actions there should be an increase in interest rates'? In view of the building society interest rate increase announced by the New South Wales Minister for Housing, will the Prime Minister say whether the new Australian savings bonds have backfired or whether increased housing interest rates were in fact one of the main objectives of the bond? 
-I join with those who have preceded me in claiming to have been misrepresented. I was in attendance in the House during the course of the evening. 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question. Are the terms of the Queensland Government's Aurukun Associates Agreement Act such that Aboriginal people are cheated of royalties and deprived of ownership and customary use of their land? Has the Queensland Government infringed United Nations and International Labour Organisation conventions regarding the rights of indigenous people in respect of their traditional lands, particularly the right to be consulted? In what way is it intended to redress this situation? 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Has the Chief Commonwealth Electoral Officer received from yet another independent candidate for the last Federal elections an allegation - 
-Has the Minister for Health reduced from 6 years to 18 months the age of eligibility for milk substitutes as a pharmaceutical benefit? Does this reduction affect thousands of children suffering from asthmatic and other respiratory complaints? Since the cost of milk substitutes is in the vicinity of $10 to $20 a week for each affected child, will the Minister acknowledge that hardship is often caused? If he does, will he agree to review this decision? 
-The Opposition supports the motion that the Standing Committee on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island People be appointed for the purpose of specialising in matters relating to the lives of the Aboriginal people and the people of the Torres Strait Islands. I think it would be understood the Opposition would support this measure because on coming into office after 1972 the Labor Party provided for such a committee which has since gone on to operate in a very effective and productive way. It is a highly specialised area of endeavour and I believe I should pay some tribute to those honourable members who worked in such a dedicated way and who have left the Committee by virtue of electoral fortunes or misfortunes. 
I do not suppose there is any area where one could single out people for such an unrewarding area of devotion as Aboriginal affairs. You can work your guts out, but the Australian society being as racist as it is, there is not always a bonus for the people who so engage themselves. Gareth Clayton, the former honourable member for Isaacs, Fred Collard, Kalgoorlie, and John Dawkins, Tangey, are no longer members in this place nor is Manfred Cross who probably should have been mentioned first of all because he was the  Chairman  of the former Committee and had given many many years of devoted service to it and the affairs of the Aboriginal people generally. Ray Thorburn, the former honourable member for Cook, had also been deeply involved. The Parliament may not even know at this point the extent to which the Parliament and the people are in debt to these devoted people because Aboriginal affairs are of such a nature that whereas we live with them lightly and easily, the eyes of the world descend on us very heavily and it is an area about which we still have extreme vulnerability. The more important issue, of course, is that there are still great areas of deprivation that need a great deal more attention than we have ever afforded to them up to this point of time. I concur with most, if not all, of what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr 
Viner) said when he proposed the establishment of this standing committee to specialise in the affairs of Aboriginal people and the Tones Strait islanders. I hope it will be a bipartisan committee, as he said. The 1967 referendum certainly gave, on behalf of the Australian people, an imprimatur to any Australian government to grasp the nettle. It took a long time- from 1967 to 1972- before things started to move but after the 1972 election the Labor Government accepted in terms of that referendum decision that it had in fact paramount responsibility, and for the first time in the history of this nation a Department of Aboriginal Affairs was established. 
The committee which preceded the one which is now proposed did some good work. As Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for some 6 months I was in a position to see this good work and I especially recognise the intense application that the Committee gave to the problems of the Yirrkala people in their great struggle to orient to the coming of the 20th century to their region, and to the discovery of bauxite. Many enormous sociological problems relate to that matter and the report about the Yirrkala people of the Northern Territory is of extreme significance. Another report concerned the health of a number of Aboriginal communities in Western Australia in far distant, isolated and remote places. I read that report with great interest. Indeed, on several occasions I found myself extremely fortified by the reaction of the members of that committee who applied themselves assiduously to the problems they were able to identify there. 
Sometimes, when one has responsibility for remote communities like those in Western Australia, one has concern about decisions made. I can think of many occasions when I have dropped down in an Air Force plane at such locations and have left behind some largesse or benefit, and I have flown off wondering whether I had done the right thing or whether I had really undermined the ordinary evolvement of those people. I remember the people at the Giles weather station. We landed there and talked to them, through an interpreter of course, out in the desert. These people had just struck camp instead of pursuing their nomadic trends, and in a mood of benevolence, not even generosity, we decided to leave 30 tents there. When we finally got in the aeroplane, having decided to leave 30 tents, to sink a bore and to put a few buildings there, we wondered whether we had ruined the lives of these people or emancipated them by having taken away their nomadic traits. It is an enormous responsibility for anyone who dares to descend into the lives of these people who came here 30 000 years ago. That report from the previous committee about the isolated Western Australian communities was highly regarded by me as it would be by any Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and certainly by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Then there was the special works projects report. It is not generally known that the Regional Employment Development scheme was preceded by an initiative on the part of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which provided special works programs for Aboriginal people. Expenditure on these programs reached $ 14.6m in the last year and the evaluation of them done by the committee was of great value. The committee was speculating whether these special projects were for blacks or for whites, whether they were to embellish the country communities in which so many of the activities took place, or whether they were in fact designed to leave an enduring benefit for Aboriginal people in terms of acquired skills. I remember going to open Australia's biggest stockyard, which was built by the Aboriginal people, and being accused by the Aboriginal people that the whites had manipulated this for the simple purpose of deriving great benefit in Walgett, and that all they really got from it was a few people who had learned a bit about welding but who were not qualified welders and as a result probably could not get a job. 
The committee will report on the present circumstances of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people, the effect of policies and programs on them and such other matters as are referred to it. Eight honourable members will take on this eccentricity with the prospects of electoral disaster as a result of their dedication to this great social obligation in Australia. I would cheerfully volunteer for such a role as I have a great deal of respect for Aboriginal people. I am concerned about paragraph (2) of this motion. It reads: 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
I am mindful of the fact that at a meeting in April 1973- this may have been when my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  was Minister- Australian Government and State government Ministers responsible for Aboriginal affairs, constituted as the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council, the then Prime Minister announced that the Australian Government intended to assume full responsibility for policy in Aboriginal affairs and to take the necessary legislative action. The Council discussed the stance of each of the States. I summarise the situation. South Australia was the first State to respond to the overtures of the Commonwealth and to hand over policy formulation and major responsibility to the Australian Government. Western Australia followed, Victoria came after that and then New South Wales. But the State that never acquiesced of course was the State of Queensland. It stands out on its own in such a way as to severely prejudice the well being of the Aboriginal people of that State. I wonder why paragraph (2)- that the Commonwealth should recognise the responsibility of the States- is emphasised to the extent that it is in the proposal before the House at present. It seems to me that there is a tendency on behalf of the present Government to get out from under to far too great an extent. We should go on grasping the nettle as we have done in the past. 
I give elementary evidence of that in terms of money. Although money alone does not solve the Aboriginal problem it is evidence of good faith in this matter as it is in so many others. Our predecessors expended something like $30m on Aboriginal affairs. In the 1975-76 Budget of the Labor Government, thrown out of office as a result of the  coup d'etat  on 1 1 November 1975, not $30m but $192m was allocated. We ought not to be slipping out from under. I think that this paragraph should be carefully examined and I should like to spend more time on it. The committee has a great deal to do in relating to the many instrumentalities which are concerned with specialised problems about aboriginal affairsthe Aboriginal Lands Commission, the Aboriginal Loans Commission, Aboriginal hostels, and the Aboriginal housing panel, applied ecology, the Aboriginal Arts Board and many others. In recent days I have read about the dilemma that the new Minister has with the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. It is important to mention this because the Committee which is to be appointed will obviously have to refer to the NACC, which Aboriginal people regard as the body through which the Aboriginal voice is heard. Before I left that ministry I told members of the National Aboriginal Consultative Council that I was not satisfied with what they were doing; I understood their growing pains; I was prepared to facilitate their continuation; I was prepared to establish a secretariat; I was prepared to fund them; I was prepared to assist and support them. The present Minister has gone very close to jettisoning them. He has referred the matter to a very vague committee of inquiry which will work out their future. The extent to which the Aboriginal people will have a say is a very dubious measure. It is important for the incoming Committee to have a very close look at the question whether there should be a National Aboriginal Consultative Council. 
I am concerned about the appointment of the David Hay Committee, which the Minister announced a short time ago. Instead of putting very great dependence on and deference to the work of the incoming Committee he has appointed a man called Hay. Whence he has come is unknown to me, anyway, and maybe to other members. He will inquire into an enormous variety of matters concerning Aboriginal people and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It almost makes the proposed Committee subjective, servile and extremely secondary. So I do not agree with that proposition either. 
I wonder why South Sea Islanders are not being considered in the purview of this Committee's work. There are some 30 000 South Sea Islanders who have great affinities with the indigenes of this country. The Islanders have similar problems with which they have to live. An enormous range of issues leaves answers to be found in respect of the indigenous people of this country to whom all Australians have an obligation. I hope that the Committee will serve and advance their needs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The matter I want to raise concerns the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and an announcement he made about amendments to the pharmaceutical benefits list in Press release No. 16 of 1976. It concerns particularly children who have a protein need for a dairy milk substitute by virtue of their asthmatic and respiratory problems. The Minister said in his Press statement that the Government aimed to cut the cost of pharmaceutical benefits by $7m this financial year and by $34m in a full year. He indicated that the bulk of that would be taken up by the increase in the prescription charge from $1.50 to $2. In addition, a considerable range of benefits was to be removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list. He indicated that they included preparations used for the relief of common stomach ailments and antihistamines used for the treatment of allergies. I think those 2 categories comprise some 40 products. He referred also to the removal of other preparations used for the treatment of angina attacks. Then he mentioned laxatives which are to be available only for paraplegics and quadriplegics. 
Finally he came to this point: 
Reduction is to be made in the age limit from 6 years to 1 8 months for patients who are eligible to receive cows milk substitutes (goats milk, soya formula and Nutramigen as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
This announcement has caused widespread consternation to a large number of people in my electorate. My interests were sparked by a doctor whom I met socially. He told me that he had 20 families affected by this decision. He told me of many other doctors who were vitally concerned. He asked me to take an interest in the matter and I have applied myself to it. As a result, a number of doctors and pharmacists have prepared a petition which was lodged in the Parliament this week. Similar petitions are now in circulation in a number of electorates. The petition states, in summary form: 
That reduction of the age limit from 6 years to 18 months for patients eligible to receive cows milk substitutes as a pharmaceutical benefit under the schedules of the National Health Act will cause serious financial hardship to many families; 
That children allergic to cows milk and other dairy products who often include asthmatics and sufferers of respiratory complaints depend on Soya Bean milk such as Isomil or Prosobee as a main source of protein; 
That the Government's action is responsible for a 100 per cent increase in the cost of milk substitutes frequently involving parents in expenditure of $10 per week to sustain desirable protein intake for an affected child. 
My inquiries have revealed the extent to which people are affected by this benefit. I have talked privately to the Minister for Health and I am glad to acknowledge the genuine interest that he has displayed in this matter. I have told my constituents that I believe he is capable of redressing this great injustice which has been done to many families. I know he has received advice from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. It is his obligation to receive that advice. It is not necessarily his obligation to act on that advice. A certain course of action is open to him now that he has received the advice and acted upon it. I believe he should apply himself to this matter assiduously because the health of a large number of extremely unfortunate children is at stake. The Minister is in a position to do something about this problem. Up to December 1975 some 32 290 prescriptions were issued for children in New South Wales affected by this matter. In Australia up to December 1 975 some 53 845 prescriptions were issued. The amount involved in the issuing of these prescriptions was $250,772. So one can see it is not an isolated matter to which I am referring; it is a hard core of cases comprising a considerable number of children who have these asthmatic and respiratory problems. I have a letter from a lady who sums up the situation very well. She wants to draw the Minister's attention to these facts: 
Children who are allergic to cows milk, in a great number of cases are also allergic to butter, cheese, eggs, beef processed meats, etc., and as a result- except for lamb and fish- their main source of protein is Soya Bean milk such as Isomil or Prosobee. 
These children, if they do eat any of the allergic foods, are faced with dermatitis, bronchitis, asthma or chronic infection. 
Therefore by disallowing the subsidy to these children parents will be forced to: 
face a great deal of hardship in that the cost of a can of this milk under the benefits scheme is 40c but without this aid the cost will be 80c. My young son drinks a can a day and the cost to us per year at present is $146. This will increase to $292, representing a 100 per cent rise in our current cost. 
If parents cannot afford to pay the additional amount and have to stop giving their children the Soya Bean milk the children 's main source of protein is removed, with the resultant damage to the child 's health. 
If the child is given the foods to which it is allergic so that it gets protein in its diet it is faced with suffering from dermatitis, bronchitis, asthma or infection. 
She said some rude things about the Government, which I will not repeat at present. Another lady, who has asked to be mentioned, is  Mrs Rattenbury  She has been referred to the media about this matter. She is the recipient of a deserted wife's pension. She has 2 children.  Her  income is $49 a week. The milk substitute now costs $10 for a weekly supply of 8 tins which, with an additional cost of $20 for special food plus special soap and essential cotton clothing for this child, represents, as anybody would acknowledge, an impossible financial burden. I now have a large number of cases concerned with this matter and I am prepared to give the 
Minister the details of them. I have already given him the details of some. One is a lady who has 3 children. In this case her 3 children, all take Isomil, the Soya Bean milk substitute, instead of cows milk to which they are highly allergic. Their ages are 5 years and twins of 18 months. The Minister's action has reduced the eligible age from 6 years to 18 months, so this lady's 3 children are affected. Between them they take up to 3 cans of Isomil a day, which will involve an increase in price of $8 a week from 1 April. All of the children suffer from bronchitis and are markedly better when taking Isomil rather than cows milk. 
I am not just talking about emotional mothers. I am talking about dedicated doctors; I am talking about conservative doctors; I am talking about radical doctors; I am talking about doctors in my electorate with whom I have a personal relationship. To a man so far they have expressed their grave concern about the Government's action in relation to this matter, as have done people who are associated with the Asthmatic Association and as have done lots of pharmacists. A large number of people throughout Sydney have responded to an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in respect of my interests in this matter. I believe it is extremely important. If the Government wants to pare down its expenditure, the last thing to do is to make a victim of unfortunate kids who are going to have a tough job of making it anyway, whether or not they have a milk substitute. I would not dare to express the views that some of my constituents have expressed, namely that there is a National Country Party interest in this. The cows milk factor is so infinitesimal from the standpoint of income for the dairy farmers that I believe it is a matter of an academic factor gone mad in the Advisory Committee. I ask the Minister to apply himself to this matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has issued to the Government a very serious warning which I hope will be heeded. I agree with his contention that dark clouds are gathering over the Australian housing scene, and gathering with such intensity as to threaten the wellbeing not only of the home seeking community but also of a large number of people who are involved in the housing industry and its associated activities. This industry is one of the biggest, if not the biggest, industries in this country. It is regrettable that in these difficult times responsibility once again has fallen into the hands of a government which, in its previous history, has shown no interest in planning the affairs of this country. It has been a  laissez-faire  political combination over the years that housing has been under consideration. Now we have reached the stage at which the new Government has declared its intention to strike a death blow at housing. It is about to abolish the Australian Housing Corporation. I think it has already achieved that. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo may not be aware of the great enthusiasm with which the various sections of the building industry greeted the announcement of the establishment of the Housing Corporation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, do you want me to shout him down? I am prepared to do so, but it could get a little ungainly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Bonnett)Order! I remind the honourable member for Bendigo that interjections are completely out of order. 
-The Australian Housing Corporation was supported enthusiastically by many groups in this country as one would expect it to be, because it simply represented in Australia the same kind of initiative as has been taken in comparable countries such as the United States of America, Canada and New Zealand. It is apparent that there are more people in communities today who, because of the rising costs of land, money, labour and materials, will never be able to get either their own home or a rented house unless they receive assistance from an instrumentality like the Australian Housing Corporation. 
The fact of the matter is that the vast predominance of people in the United States and Canada who obtain nouses now receive such assistance. The pressures are such that the number of people who have in the last 2 years taken single dwellings has halved while on the other hand the number of people who have been forced into condominiums, town houses, units and the like - the medium density-type housing has doubled. That is a reflection of the difficulties that people encounter. On a large scale in those countries assistance is being given for the purchase and rental of homes. Not only have the Department of Housing and the Housing Corporation received this death blow but also the whole building and construction industry has been assailed. The honourable member for Bendigo is laughing at the fact that 250 construction programs have been cancelled, postponed or abandoned. He will soon see the chickens come home to roost when the effects of the curtailment or elimination of those programs become apparent. 
Now we know that there will be further attacks. I am reliably advised and I confidently predict that very heavy inroads will be made into the tax deductibility scheme on mortgage interest that is in operation at present. The Government is going to cut expenditure in that area. In addition I can see that a home savings grant scheme will be introduced which will be a debauchery in terms of equity. It will be a scheme based on a very dubious premise. Government funds will be made available to people who in many instances will not need them. Already a great deal of concern has been expressed about that proposal. I understand that Cabinet has decided against the proposal put by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  to speed up the reintroduction of the home savings grant scheme. In a way this is good because the scheme as we had it indicated to us at election time lacked a great deal of principle. 
There is the sorry situation. Not only are we to see a tax of the type I have mentioned but also in every conceivable form a lack of enthusiasm is being displayed by this Government in housing matters. Never a day goes by without somebody expressing concern that the Woolloomooloo housing scheme is under threat, the Glebe housing scheme is under threat, or that the growth centres will not receive the same kind of enthusiastic backing from this Government as they received from the previous Government. We have come through a difficult time in housing while the Labor Party was in government. It is a fact that we were able to come out of a trough much more quickly than we have come out of troughs on previous occasions. We will always have troughs, and I do not know whether the honourable member for Lilley who is interjecting wants to attribute to the Labor Government some blame for the situation that prevails at present. However, the fact is that the Labor Government did at least initiate some new machinery and set about planning the housing industry with a view to avoiding the periodic debacle that takes place. 
Let me give briefly an account of the situation which the Labor Government inherited. The increase in the money supply which till 197 1 was normally about 6 per cent to 8 per cent a year was suddenly allowed to jump to some 26 per cent. Of course the housing industry then found itself flooded with excess demand. The value of housing loans by banks, building societies and life offices almost trebled in a 2-year period from $l,250m in 1970-71 to $2,988m in 1972-73. In every way the Liberal-Country Party coalition in the period preceding the election of a Labor Government inflated the building industry and put it in very dire straits. The number of loans made available between 1971 and 1973 for housing purposes rose from 135 000 to 245 000. A lot of people would say that that was a very good achievement and in many respects it is, but a lot of money was made available and the Government did nothing about providing a comparable increase in the supply of materials and manpower. As a result we found the house construction period increasing and, of course, the cost of houses rising. There was a shortage of all kinds of materials. There certainly was a shortage of essential manpower and it was this Government which set about the task of restoring equilibrium. By the time it went out of office it had achieved a great deal of success. 
-The Government of which I was a member. It went out of office on 1 1 November last as a result of the coup d'etat. There is a lot of evidence to substantiate what I have been saying. I will not be able to deal with it all now but I have with me a notice headed 'Review 1 975 ' issued by the Permanent Building Societies Association and published in the newspapers on 1 December 1975. In other words, it is a review of building society activity in the last year of the Labor Government. Are the building societies squealing with agony? They said in this review: 
The Permanent Building Societies in New South Wales . . . over $1,600 million strong! 
As the year draws to a close it is estimated that investment and savings with the 26 member societies in the Permanent Building Societies Association increased in 197S by about $400 million to a new peak of $ 1 ,670 million. 
It goes on at some length but also states: 
More than 2000 new loans a month are currently being made to home seekers. There are over 90 000 families already buying their own homes with loans from these societies. 
The general effect of that substantial announcement which was published in every daily newspaper in New South Wales was that the permanent building society movement was elated with the year of administration by the Labor Government. Now things have changed. We find that action has been taken by this Government already which has had the effect of forcing up interest rates for a number of people obtaining finance from these same building societies in New South Wales. The special savings bonds introduced by the Treasury which attracted subscriptions to 10 February of $565.2m have caused a very great crisis because of the very high rate of interest which they carry. Concurrent with that development was a call by the Treasury on statutory reserves of 1 per cent which again was dealing with a liquidity situation by taking money out of circulation. So we have had 2 things, a reduction in the money supply and a competitive interest rate which certainly had the effect of forcing up interest rates for a number of building society members. The net effect of what has happened to societies affected in New South Wales is that repayments on a building society loan of $20,000 will rise by $200 a year. Many young families will be slugged for another $4 or $5 a week. Worse than that, many people will now be deprived of a loan because of the increased income needed to satisfy the eligibility test. To qualify for an average $20,000 loan a family will need an income of at least $9,600 per annum- and many of them do not have it. This is one of the early effects of this Government's action. 
In the short time that I have I will talk specifically about the State Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill. This Bill authorises the Treasury to advance to the States for the current financial year $364.6m for welfare housing. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said, the advances are to be made under the 1973-1974 Housing Agreement which I, as a former Minister for Housing and Construction, successfully negotiated with the States. In fact, that Agreement represented one of the earliest major achievements of the Labor Government following its success in the 1972 election. It demonstrated the willingness and the capacity of a Labor government to work co-operatively with the States to mutual advantage and for the benefit of the people. It was hailed by State Housing Ministers as a major rescue operation for State housing programs, without which they would have been doomed to degeneration. Without the Agreement expenditure under State housing programs would have remained at a pathetically low level. Interest rates would have risen to astronomical heights and put rents and home purchase instalments beyond the level of the low income earners whom the State housing authorities are intended to serve. This Government sits very uncomfortably with the 1973-1974 5-year Housing Agreement. It does not like it at all. Very pertinent remarks in the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  indicated that. Where does the Government stand on the fundamental, philosophical objectives which the Agreement incorporates? The State housing programs have never been a priority with Liberal-Country Party governments. Even the level of funding in the past reflects that fact. 
The 1972-73 Budget provided $ 163.2m for State housing. One of my earliest measures after taking office in 1973 was to introduce a Bill which increased this allocation by $6.6m to take up the slack in the building industry through an intensified public housing program. This brought the 1972-73 expenditure to $ 169.8m. Then the new Agreement became operative. In 1973-74 the allocation went up from $ 163 m in the previous year to $2 1 8.7m, an increase of 26 per cent. In 1974-75 the allocation was first set at $235m and then increased by another $ 150m to $385m, an increase of about 60 per cent. This was designed to maximise the capacity of the public sector to take up the slack which was occurring at that time. There was a downturn of available funds which was necessary because the Government realised that it could never build any more houses than available manpower and material dictated. All the money in the world does not increase a government's capacity to build houses unless it does something about those matching resources- manpower and material. 
Last financial year $385m was made available for public housing programs. Now of course, under this Bill, the amount is to be reduced to $364.6m. The minister said: 
Some States are currently experiencing difficulties in maintaining their welfare housing programs- difficulties I might add, that are a direct legacy of the previous Government. 
I have no idea what he was trying to say. Perhaps he will be able to explain it. Does he resent the fact that the former Labor Government responded to the States' call for additional funds as the last year went by? Does he know that every State, whether led by Liberal, National Country Party or Labor governments, asked for money and that the Australian Labor Government responded to their call? I take it from the comment made by the Minister in his second reading speech that he was opposed to the high level of funds made available by the Labor Government. 
Houses commenced in 1974-75 by State housing authorities reached a record level of 1 1 463. 1 do not suppose anybody can quibble about that as a net effect of Labor policy. The Minister was able proudly to predict that 13 800 houses are likely to be completed in the public sector during 1975-76, which again would be a record achievement. In other words, this Government now has the good fortune to be able to complete a record number of houses this year- the houses which the Labor administration commenced last year. In totality, Labor did a great deal to restore the equilibrium and it chalked up a very proud achievement in strongly supporting the public sector to assist the deprived people whose incomes did not normally reach 85 per cent of average incomes. They are the ones who go into housing commission homes. We also sought to build up a stock of rental homes. We also made homes available to people whose incomes did not exceed 95 per cent of average weekly earnings and made loans available to them at 5% per cent- an enviable record in every sense. The Housing Agreement was a great milestone in the history of welfare housing in this country and I hope to see a lot more Government enthusiasm about its future than we have seen today. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. Are many New South Wales local government bodies anxiously awaiting decisions on project applications submitted some months ago under the urban local roads program? Was approval given to the Victorian program on 26 February? Why has approval to New South Wales taken so long and when will it be given, or is this project the subject of review under the Government's priority review program? Is it likely that the program will be curtailed or even eliminated? 
-There is no new thrust in the proposals before the House. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  who preceded me in this debate, is a new member of this House. How the House must miss the former honourable member for Perth,  Mr Joe  Berinson, who was steeped in a genuine understanding of social welfare and social security matters and who worked assiduously to formulate Labor's policy in these areas which the honourable member for Perth had the temerity to disparage. The greatest range of achievements that has ever been seen in the history of this and probably any other nation has just been roundly criticised by the honourable member who obviously has no understanding of the events that preceded the Labor Government's administration of this area. This legislation is in slavish pursuit of a pattern of updating social service benefits which was set by the Labor Government. All this legislation does is to increase pensions by $2.50 a week for single people and $4 a week for a married couple, and that general theme runs through to the other range of beneficiaries. This pattern was set by the Labor Government. 
The idea of updating pensions twice a year in terms of average weekly earnings for the purpose of achieving Labor's target of equating pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings was never heard of before Labor came to office. Prior to that time there had been 23 years of neglect and indifference. I will tell the House a little about it in just a moment. Those who have been members of this place for a few years will remember the syndrome that operated during those 23 years. There was a pension increase every 3 years, but never in a non-election year. There was an increase only in the third year. Then there was this half-dollar or five bob mentality, as it used to be called. 
-In terms of the percentage of average weekly earnings it did not mean very much because Liberal-Country Party accomplishments in respect of pensions were such that pensions ranged from about 1 8 per cent to 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
-I am going to cite figures which will inform the honourable member in such a way that he might be a little more respectful. 
The bottle-o from Petrie. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What level of lending has the Aboriginal Loans Commission incurred for each month since 1 July 1975. 
What amount is available for lending from the present date to 30 June 1976. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Does  the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-I do claim to have been misrepresented, greviously. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has done me a very grave disservice which could be extremely damaging to me in the Party of which I am a member and in the electorate which I represent. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I suggest that the honourable member explain where he has been personally misrepresented. 
-If you will allow me and if I have no interruptions 1 will do it as expeditiously as is possible.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  the honourable gentleman called me a royalist and to me that, in the present situation, is extremely offensive. 
-He called me a royalist and if that was known in my electorate and in the Party that I represent I would be regarded as very much out of character with the spirit of the Labor movement and the spirit of my electorate. I have indeed over the years had a lot of respect for royalty as have many other people. But in view of the political intervention which took place in this country in recent times, I now have very strong tendencies towards republicanism and strongly advocate it. Indeed, I could not be correctly described as a royalist and I ask the honourable gentleman to withdraw the allegation that he has made because I regard it as offensive. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no such issue before the Chair. I call the honourable member for Wills. 

 -Mr Speaker, several constituents have asked me to raise a matter which concerns a wonder drug diet- a weight reducing method- which has involved them in what in common parlance would be called a rip-off. Whilst they are not complaining much about that they are concerned that the costs associated with this treatment are a charge on Medibank. There is a very strong feeling that the Government is not being viligant enough in ensuring that only bona fide charges are made against Medibank and insufficiently vigilant about bringing to heel people of the type I am going to mention. 
The company concerned is the Obesity and Gerontology Research Clinic at 175 Pitt St., Sydney. That is the head office of this company. It also has 5 clinics in the suburbs of Sydney and, I think, 2 clinics in Melbourne. It now is moving to Adelaide as well. In the first year of its operations this company is said to have had from 3000 to 3500 clients. I think honourable members will acknowledge, after I have finished speaking, that they can be described as victims. I am very concerned that the Government may be harbouring people of this type- people who are battening on the great humane concept of Medibank. 
This clinic had been advertised extensively on television by the well-known woman's cookery writer, Margret Fulton. It is run by a  Dr Thomas  Beck and he has convinced thousands of women to take this $ 1 1 8 diet course- the wonder drug diet course. The matter to which I am referring was the subject of a very excellent exposure by the Sydney  Daily Mirror  on the 16 February. People who are interested could gain a lot more detail by reading that newspaper. The doctor's credentials are not recognised in Australia. There are registered doctors co-operating with him in this rip-off despite the possible deregistration that they face. I understand they have been warned to that effect. 
This wonder diet involves an injection of hormones taken from pregnant women and it is regarded as useless by the experts. The drug is called HCG, or human chorionic gonadotropin.  Dr Beck  regards this as having such great potential that he has actually sought to extract the hormone from the bodies of starving women in Bangladesh. It is such a lucrative business that it does not matter where you get it from. It is used with a daily injection and patients are placed on a 500 calories a day diet. 
The latter part of the treatment might have merit in itself but the former part seems to be extremely questionable. Leading nutritionists in the Federal Department of Health have criticised the program and called it a gimmick. One expert, Professor W. Jones, a former lecturer in obstetrics and gynaecology at the University of Sydney, said it was unscrupulous. Professor J. Turtle, a professor of medicine at the University of Sydney, said that there have been no studies to establish that the treatment has any benefit whatsoever. Professor Drenick, professor of medicine at the University of California, said that the treatment 'could induce hair loss, dry scaly skin and lowered blood pressure'. He said that the United States Food and Drug Administration had actually required the labelling of HCG to indicate that there is no evidence that it induces weight loss. 
As I said earner, this matter involves some thousands of people, 3000-odd in the first year, at an average cost of $118. 1 have several letters from constituents but I will refer only to one. It says that it appears that the clinic takes all the patients it can get. There is supposed to be a psychological test to determine whether people are capable of responding but the clinic takes people whether or not they undergo that test. In fact it usually signs them up and commences the course. People almost complete the course before they get the results of the entry test. I will read this paragraph from the letter. It says: 
It also appears that they take all the patients they can get, give them the treatment, if it works they are suitable for it, if not send them back to their doctor. 
You only have to go to the Medibank office in Miranda - 
That is a part of my electorate-  to see how many people go straight from the clinic to collect their medical refunds, to realise how many people have responded to the advertising, and this is only one of the clinics in Sydney. 
This constituent began his letter by saying: 
I am very disturbed about the methods some doctors are using, which may bring Medibank into disrepute, and I would hate this to happen after all the Labor Party has done to bring it into being. It may require adjustments and modifications, but it seems to me that Fraser would just as soon scrap it as modify it. 
I have talked to several of these people and they realise that they were taken for a ride. One lady told me that after the first injection she was subjected to vomiting, nausea, intestinal pains, tingling of the fingers, deafness and blurred vision. She knows, as I say, that she has been taken for a ride. But what she and a number of other people are now anxious to ensure is that this is not underwritten by the Australian taxpayer, by making it a charge on Medibank. I have already taken up the matter, by way of correspondence, with the Minister. I have listed it as a question on the parliamentary notice paper. I believe that it is important to get the issue recorded in  Hansard  so that other people can be informed about the hazards represented by it. 

 Mr Speaker, in the several minutes that remain, and without labouring the point, I would just like to refer to the closure of a post office. Now that sounds mundane and very ordinary, because many post offices have been closed in Australia in recent years. But this one has a feature about it which I believe needs mentioning. The Menai post office serves a little community 20 miles from Sydney. It is a place where there will be maybe 70 000 people in the near future. It will be a sort of a satellite city. In fact the first town houses are already starting to be erected. There has been a post office there for donkeys years, and now the postmistress has resigned. Why has she resigned? It is simply because the agreement with the non-official Postmasters Association and the Government is to the effect that this postal officer, be it a postmaster or a postmistress, is paid $42 for a 5-day week and $2.50 for  2Vi  hours work on Saturday. In other words, the Australian Postal Commission is seeking to run this service on the cheap. I do not doubt that this is but only one case where we are just trying to get too much out of these people. I think it is fair to describe the policy as blatantly exploitive and reminiscent of sweated labour in the dark ages. Of course, the regrettable thing is that the members of the public are the unfortunate victims of the endeavour by the Postal Commission to get this service on the cheap. I actually went round this town asking people whether they would like to become the postmaster or the postmistress. They just said to me: 'You must be joking. It is such an absurd proposition'. 
This is what happens in this instance: The postmistress receives an annual allowance of $2,180 which, as I say, is the equivalent of $42 a week. Then there is accommodation. The allowance for the rent of a very nice office that she provides is $936. There is an allowance of $26 for a supplementary thing- I am not sure what that is. Then there is an allowance of $52 for heating, $39 for cleaning the public telephone cabinets, and $133.70 for Saturday penalty rates. There it is. A very assiduous service is required by the community and a competent sort of a person is required to run the service. That lousy wage is a reflection on this Government. If anybody else tried to engage a person of that sort of calibre for that wage the Government would probably prosecute him. I believe that this matter ought to be looked at, because the case I raise is undoubtedly typical of similar situations in many other parts of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The construction industry has lost the support and the consideration of this Government and is faced with a massive slow-down and underutilisation. There are many who say that it is on the brink of collapse. The Government has almost perfected its blueprint of destruction for this industry from which, I warn seriously, there may be no recovery for many years to come. I want to outline the Government's recipe for disaster. Government contracts are being cancelled on an unprecedented scale throughout Australia. Some 250 projects have been abandoned or deferred already at a cost of $ 130m, and notice has been given that more will follow. 
The Department of Housing and Construction has been dismembered and the surviving unit, the. Department of Construction, has been relegated to Cabinet oblivion. The Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has suffered a budget cut of $31m. The Australian Housing Corporation has been abolished to achieve a saving of $29m. The Darwin reconstruction program has been retarded. Development of Albury-Wodonga and other growth centres is running dead through declining Government support. The Government has slashed the budgets for the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission by $24m and has made further cuts in the programs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, the Film and Television School and many other instrumentalities, all of which will have to cut their building programs. There is a curtailment of funds for public housing. Building societies have suffered a liquidity crisis through declining investment confidence. Let me refer to today's news item, which reads: 
Funds in New South Wales building societies dropped by $62.6m in February- the first full month of the Federal Government's new Australian Savings Bond. 
Net withdrawals for all Australian building societies total $64m . . . 
The Australian savings bonds Series 1, offered at a phenomenal 10.5 per cent, set a competitive hike to a new interest plateau and drained funds away from housing and construction investment to the extent of its yield of $757.3m from more than 121000 subscribers. Further work on a planned construction industry census has been deferred until at least 1977-78. The Government has cut the housing component out of the 1976 census of population and housing and reduced the budget for the census from $14m to $7m. It has abandoned the third housing expenditure survey for 1976-77. In other words, the Government has set out to keep the industry and the country at large in a state of perpetual ignorance. It is not even going to reveal the facts in relation to the deterioration in the industry. Without those facts, planning from here on is going to be an impossibility. 
To heap final indignity on the besieged housing and construction industry, the total money supply was allowed to crash into a savage nose dive of almost unprecedented proportions during February last. That is the state of the industry under the glaring lights of Fraserism. The Government has turned on the lights, but people do not like what they are starting to see. The fact is that the industry is being sacrificed by this Government through its obsession against deficit finance, its addiction to Budget cuts, its pursuit of fanatical frugality in public sector spending, and its hang-up with handouts for the giant cartels and corporations. At the very moment when this great but ailing industry calls for an infusion of Government support, the Government ruthlessly clamps its foot on the oxygen lifeline. The Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  sought to put his position beyond doubt. So as to clear up any misconceptions, he issued a Press statement on 24 March. The industry has been in a state of shuddering shock ever since that time. This is what he said: 
The position is that the total value of capital works for Australian departments deferred is $ 1 37m. 
With exceptional frankness, he went on to admit that deferrals in the Northern Territory, with the exception of Darwin, amounted to only $52m. Then, in the Darwin context, he said: 
It was quite untrue to claim that $60m for 1 500 living units had been axed from the Darwin reconstruction program, but what has happened is that commencement of building these units has been deferred until the next financial year. 
Later he added, as he said today: 
It is acknowledged that the building industry is going through a difficult period, but so are many other industries. 
Finally he quoted these words: 
The Government is determined to press on with its strategy of reducing waste in government and unnecessary expenditure and at the same time not increase taxes. 
As I see it, that is poor consolation for an industry concerned with massive underutilisation of resources and unemployment affecting tradesmen, engineers, surveyors, architects and draughtsmen reaching unprecedented levels. The Master Builders Association of New South Wales is among the bodies that are seriously concerned about the current crisis. In the February edition of the publication  Builder  it had this to say: 
Since the end of October the number of registered unemployed in the building industry in NSW increased by 62 per cent to a total of 11 034 at the end of January 1976. This represents an increase from 6705 to 10 423 for on-site workers and from 385 to 61 1 for the professional consultative sector. In the month of December alone there was a massive increase of 1 18 per cent ( 1 574) in the number of apprentices registered as unemployed, which at the end of January 1976 totalled 2953. 
Earlier this month, the Master Builders Association, through its Acting Executive Director,  Mr John  Elder, predicted that 60 per cent of the building industry would be unemployed by May this year. The Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia, at its national executive meeting this month, claimed in its state of the industry resolution that vital sections of the building and construction industry were heading towards a collapse of unprecedented dimensions. The union's National Secretary,  Mr Clancy,  claimed that from the end of last November to the end of this year another 50 000 workers in the industry will lose their jobs unless action is taken very soon. The Institute of Quantity Surveyors claims that its personnel are facing major unemployment. Of a total of 900 quantity surveyors in Australia close on half, some 400, are expected to be out of work by June 1 976. They of course are professionally involved with the early pipeline activity and their inactivity spells crisis for many other professional and trade groups. The Royal Institute of Architects is similarly concerned. At December 1 975 the employment level for architectural staff in New South Wales approximated 900 personnel. The estimated level for June 1 976 is 670. So the crisis goes on. 
The Executive Director of the Royal Institute of Architects,  Mr Donald  Bailey, claims that there has been a decline in architectural employment in excess of 25 per cent in the year ended March 1976. He said that indications are for a further 17 per cent decline by the end of September. The industry urgently needs a $500m Government commitment over 3 years, a Commonwealth office program to cater for the 35 000 relocatable public servants identified by the Public. Service Board, and a comprehensive program for hospitals, schools and other public works. The industry needs an indicative planning process designed to ascertain a desirable construction level and to maximise the utilisation of manpower resources. It needs forward planning to achieve 5 -year rolling programs incorporating both public and private sector initiatives. It needs an urgent 'save the industry' conference and an acceptance of responsibility on the part of this Government in respect of the ailing housing industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What level of expenditure has been incurred by the Government light passenger transport service in each month since 1 July 1975. 
What level of expenditure has been incurred by the Government in respect of private contract light public transport in each of the same months. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the details of cuts to be made in the International Aid Program in 1975-76. 
-Last week the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  acting on behalf of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  announced the intention of the Government to amend the home savings grant scheme. This followed, of course, a great deal of rancour and turmoil in the Cabinet. I am not sure who won but I understand there were very strong opponents to the proposal to expand the home savings grant scheme because it was not considered an equitable arrangement and for other reasons. Anyway, we now have this commitment and the Government has virtually announced its intention to use a blank cheque. It has no idea of the cost involved. We are going to have a widened scheme. What the electorate is going to learn very soon is that all that glitters is not gold. There are a lot of hidden traps in respect of this proposal because the funds involved, which my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  estimates will be of $90m a year, will be made available for this purpose at the expense of other priority housing purposes. There is no doubt in the world about that. Honourable members opposite cannot have it both ways. It will be at the expense of public housing. Unquestionably that will be the case. It will be at the expense of the terminating building societies or the Home Builders Account as we call it in terms of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. That is the process by which people whose income does not exceed 95 per cent of average weekly earnings are given the opportunity of obtaining a housing loan at 5VS per cent. It will certainly be at the expense of tax deductibility allowances on housing mortgage interest rates for many thousands of Australians. 
On 4 June last the Homes Savings Grant Act was amended. The purpose of the amendment was to give effect to the then Government's decision to terminate the home savings grant scheme consequent upon the introduction of tax deductibility for mortgage interest rates on housing loans. I pointed out at that time when introducing the legislation that something like 40 000 people on average had been benefiting over the years from the home savings grant scheme. Actually, for the year 1974-75 the number of beneficiaries was in the vicinity of 20 000 and the amount involved in grants was $13m. We decided to substitute the home savings grant scheme for tax deductibility allowances which involved an expenditure of $ 130m and was likely to assist about 1  Vi  million families. Right from its very inception, that is from 1964, the Labor Party opposed the home savings grant scheme. We regarded it as being inequitable in many, many ways. It was so complicated that many people, hundreds if not thousands, were robbed on the grounds of technicalities. To operate under the scheme one needed a Queen's Counsel. In fact, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  commented on one occasion that it had more strings than a parachute. All of us can probably identify hundreds of constituents who could not get into the action. The 3-year residential requirement excluded the most needy people and migrants. The age barrier also excluded many people. There were those like policemen, clergymen and people who were in the Services who by reason of their occupation could not settle down in any one place. They were excluded on the ground of an age barrier. Widows and single people were also excluded. Then there were valuation limits. It is impossible, of course, to get a sensible valuation limit around Australia because the value of land differs from one State to another, and that requirement was one of the major grounds of exclusions. Then there was this requirement to save for 3 years. There were very complicated technicalities about approved forms of savings. There was a premium, of course, on affluence and benefits were given mainly to those with a saving capacity. People who lacked affluence or a saving capacity did not get much advantage at all out of the scheme. 
We now have a new scheme. It is designed to give $2,000 to people who can save $40 a week. Honourable gentlemen opposite are very enthusiastic about this proposition even though those people who are capable of saving $40 a week probably do not need any assistance to get a home. They have to save $6,000 in 3 years to get a grant of $2,000. It is amazing that the Government takes this view. The Government seems to believe that there is a need to provide an incentive to save. This seems to be quite contradictory to the Government's monetary policy because I have heard from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and other honourable gentlemen that there is need these days to ensure that people spend. A massive indiscriminate handout is being given to people who do not need it. Often, of course, these people will get this benefit and will use it for purposes other than houses. There is nothing at all to stop people obtaining this $2,000 grant and going off to spend it on an expensive motor car, a caravan, a swimming pool, a speedboat, a fur coat or a diamond ring. If anybody can point out to me any provision in the proposed legislation which can prevent that from happening I will be very happy to be corrected. But the fact is that people will be able to get this grant whether they need it or not for housing purposes. 
-Old Ocker. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the Australian Government's commitment to the electrification of the Sutherland-Waterfall Railway system. 
When will this project; (a) commence and (b) conclude. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is a review at present in progress over the level of rental for servicemen 's houses throughout Australia. 
Is it intended to increase substantially the rents; if so, for what reasons, and to what levels. 
What formula is used to compute the rental for servicemen's housing. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. During the last election campaign did the Prime Minister make an unqualified commitment to maintain the tax deductibility scheme on home mortgage interest rates as introduced by the Labor Government? Does he consider that the new proposals, which exclude all taxpayers other than first home owners in the first 5 years of their home purchase, is a repudiation of that commitment? 
-The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  should be congratulated on bringing to the attention of this House as a matter of urgency the deteriorating state of the construction industry and in particular the very unfortunate situation that prevails in the State of New South Wales. There is very little doubt about the fact that the election date in New South Wales was set in consideration of several matters. One was that the election had to take place before the next federal Budget was brought down and another was that it had to take place before the secret report on the construction industry became public. The fact is- and I have this on the best of authoritythat the Government holds a confidential report about the state of the industry. The report, comprising 150 pages was prepared by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and is extremely comprehensive in its analysis. It says in effect that unemployment will prevail in this country at a level of about 300 000 until the month of June 1 976 after which it will steadfastly increase. 
So we have confronting us in Australia today a very, very serious situation and it is at a time when the Cabinet has rejected a recommendation by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  that a rescue operation should be invoked to do something not just about the construction industry and the housing industry but about all the other industries that rely upon those primary industries. So I believe it is extremely significant that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  have so far refused to comment on this secret report. There is no question that if that report were released before next Saturday's election in New South Wales it would have a very significant effect upon the result of the election. The fact of the matter is that we have listened to the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  who heard from the honourable member for Robertson a detailed account of the deteriorating employment position especially in New South Wales and throughout Australia as a whole.  His  simple answer to this is that there is trouble in every industry. All industries are in trouble, he says, but unfortunately the industry for which he is responsible is getting the same indifferent treatment as all the others are receiving. 
What has happened in this country and what is happening now is to a very large degree the result of this Government's  laissez-faire  approach, its uncaring attitude because it has this obsession with reducing deficits. It is concerned with the curtailment of public spending. It is diverting funds away from the construction industry to Commonwealth loans by raising interest rates to 10Vi per cent thus attracting something like $757m which would otherwise be available to the public sector of the economy which in turn would stimulate the industry. It is this Government which has reduced the money supply from 20 per cent to 12 per cent. It is this Government and, indeed, the Minister for Construction who are responsible for the deferment of 250 government contracts valued at about $137m. It is this Government which has curtailed the allocation of funds for public housing through the State housing authorities. Whereas the funds made available in 1974-75 for housing commission activity were $385m, the allocation has been reduced to $364m in the current year. The honourable gentleman might say that that is a product of the former Government's budgeting arrangments, but he omitted to say that that Government also held in hand an additional $100m to stimulate public housing if it became necessary. 
It is this Government which has destroyed confidence by attacking the 6.4 per cent national wage increase. It is this Government which has undermined the concept of indexation. It is this Government which has mutilated the concept of tax deductibility of mortgage interest rates. Does anyone believe that builders will be encouraged to build houses for people when the Government has already announced its intention to take away from hundreds of thousands of home owners the benefit of tax deductibility of mortgage interest rates? The Australian people do not know yet that many of them are going to lose $6 to $8 a week because of the Government's decision to restrict this scheme to people who are buying their first house, and then for only the first 5 years of purchase. So the predominance of people- people rearing young families and incurring family costs- are going to lose the benefit. Is that an additive, a stimulus to the housing program? One has good reason to doubt it. 
It is this Government which has put the kibosh on the Regional Employment and Development program which under the Labor Government was running at the rate of $135m. That labour intensive scheme took up the slack in unemployment and caused unemployment figures to be lower than they otherwise would have been. It is this Government which has shown a declining interest in the development of growth centres. It is this Government which has cut the Australian Government's $150m per annum program for sewerage in Australia, a program which certainly has a great deal to do with the buoyancy of the construction industry. It is this Government which has abolished the Australian Housing 
Corporation, which received a budget of $29m and which was to be a catalyst for stimulating the industry wherever it appeared that that stimulation was required. As the Minister for Construction, who is sitting at the table, must readily acknowledge, this Government has no office building program, despite the fact that something like $16m a year is being expended on the leasing of offices for Public Service purposes. 
There are many other matters for which the present Government has to bear responsibility. The building society liquidity crisis has a great deal to do with the Government's monetary policy and the drawing off of available investment into the Commonwealth loans area. This Government has to take responsibility for retarding the Darwin reconstruction program by some $52m. It is this Government which has to bear responsibility for the cut of $31m in the budget of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. Where is the area improvement program, which in terms of the last Budget amounted to some $17m? It has been another casualty under the Fraser Government. Where is the enthusiasm and the continued support for the program to assist local government, which in Labor's last year in office ran to an amount of $79m? No matter in what direction we look we find that the Government has failed to take any positive action, and in fact has initiated actions which are extremely damaging, extremely discouraging, to the Australian investor, be he an investor in the heavy construction area or in the housing area. 
The Minister for Construction, who proceded me in this debate, obviously does not know much about employment figures. He could find only the February figures, but let me tell him that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has made available figures as late as 9 April, and those figures are readily available in the Parliamentary Library. The effect of them is that there are 278 010 registered unemployed in Australia, or 4:6 per cent of the estimated labour force. In seasonally adjusted terms, unemployment increased over the month by 20 947. Unfilled vacancies fell by 8036, and more than half the decline in actual terms occurred in the State of New South Wales. All the available figures show that New South Wales is leading this trend to disaster, and there does not appear to be one solitary redeeming feature in the policy of the present New South Wales Government, led by  Sir Eric  Willis. That Government has not shown one skerrick of concern, one bit of indication that one solitary initiative is to be taken to cope with the present crisis. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the number of bankruptcies in (a) total and (b) for each major occupational category in each of the last 25 years. 
asked the Minister for Abor iginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the matters currently engaging the attention of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
What Government office construction programs have been approved since 1 1 November 1975. 
What Government office construction programs approved before 1 1 November 1975, or at a program stage at that date, have been deferred or abandoned. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What Post Offices have ceased to operate since 11 November 1975? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What is the estimated average cost of installing (a) private and (b) public telephones. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did Wollongong University College make a submission to the Australian Universities Commission's Medical Education Committee involving a proposal to establish a Graduate Medical School at the College in September 1 972. 
If so, was this proposal evaluated by a working party established by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission; if so, with what result. 
Does the Hospitals and Health Services Commission support the proposal to establish a Graduate Medical School at the now autonomous Wollongong University; if so, will the matter be considered in the context of the next Federal Budget. 
-Will the Minister for National Resources inform the House whether he has had any official involvement with the Japanese proposal to set up a nuclear recycling plant in Australia? Does he, like the Premier of Western Australia, favour this proposal, or will he prevent the country from becoming a dump for nuclear waste until it is clear that there will be no threat to the environment or the health and safety of the Australian people? 
-The House is debating the Aged Persons Hostels Amendment Bill. It is not the  most exotic piece of  legislation by any means, but it is certainly legislation which means a great deal to a considerable number of people. The Bill involves, as the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  have implied, very significant philosophical considerations. Indeed, the more we talk about this sort of matter the more we are inclined to deter families from accepting the obligation that they otherwise might have accepted, particularly when we claim in the conversations and debates that we have that we are our brother's keeper in respect of the care of the aged. 
Of course, if one does take such a view, if one is involved in such an advocacy, it is very difficult for one to reconcile that with the contention that one should be curtailing expenditure in the public sector of the economy. When one talks about the general theme of the community accepting greater responsibility in the future than it has in the past, one automatically is giving credence to the idea that one should not engage in a cutting of the expenditure in the public sector of the economy. It is very fashionable to tantalize people with the prospect of a cut in taxation while one concurrently or simultaneously is dangling in front of them the great benefits that can be obtained from an expansion of public sector expenditure. 
The purpose of this legislation, of course, is to give effect to the Labor Government's decision to defer but subsequently to approve 300 applications under the Aged Persons Hostels Act which would involve a total construction expenditure of $ 1 34m. It is now proposed to amend the Act to extend the commencement time for the projects from 27 September 1976 to a period of 12 months for each project from the date a grant is actually approved. The original Bill- the Aged Persons Hostels Bill- that was introduced by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  on 14 September 1972 in itself was commendable, and nobody is seeking to detract from it in any way. It provided an incentive for the building of hostel-type accommodation for the frail aged, as was intended, to lessen the pressure on admissions to nursing homes of people who in many cases did not need such a service. The honourable member for Murray sought to disparage the Labor Government's endeavours in respect of nursing homes. I think that I need only to say that if he studies the figures he will establish the point that there has been an enormous underwriting of the cost of this private sector activity to a degree which is becoming extremely worrying to a very large number of people. 
We have a multi-tiered system of looking after the aged. We have the aged persons homes concept itself, where self-sufficient people are able to care for themselves, to cook for themselves, to wash their own clothes, to clean their own units and so on. Then we go on to think in terms of hostel accommodation, which is often an ancillary part of the same establishment, where people are losing the capacity to cook their meals. Then we go on to the nursing home situation, which attracts support from the Australian Government. After that, of course, there is the hospital system itself. So we really have an extremely complex system in operation at the present time. 
The honourable gentleman's identification of the merit of the Aged Persons Hostels Act was perfectly correct. He spoke about the credit side. But there are several offsetting factors which, in my view, have retarded the effectiveness of the hostel scheme. The first involves the category of benevolent organisations that are eligible for benefits. To be eligible, an organisation needs to have an existing home which was subsidised on a $1 for $1 basis prior to 1957. 1 remember being at the opening of an aged persons home with the honourable member for Mackellar back in those years when I was contending that a $1 for $1 subsidy was insufficient. Of course, I was reprimanded by him and a number of his political confreres who were there at that time, but since then things have changed greatly and the $1 for $1 subsidy that prevailed in 1957 subsequently has gone on to be a subsidy at a far more benevolent level than the subsidy at that time. So my prediction turned out to be spot on. 
Those organisations are, as I understand it, assisted with the full capital cost of the provision of hostel-type accommodation. The incidence of unit capitalisation varies. If the home is an unsubsidised home, assistance is given on the basis of 2 hostel places for every person accommodated. If it is subsidised already on a dollar for dollar basis, assistance given is for one hostel place for every two accommodated. But why restrict the capital assistance, that is, the full cost of hostel accommodation, to those organisations operating and subsidised prior to 1957? Of course, other organisations have been subsidised dollar for dollar for some time. Then they were subsidised on a $2 to $ 1 basis and then, under the Labor Government, from December 1974 on a basis of $4 to $1. That subsidy has been provided for aged persons homes and for hostel accommodation as well in some cases. Of course, the subsidy of $4 for $1 is a lesser amount than that paid under the Aged Persons Hostels Act which, in fact, is the full capital cost. So only a very limited category of establishments is attracting the full subsidy and others are more or less relegated to the $4 for $ 1 subsidy element for the provision of hostel assistance. 
As I see it, there is a need for flexibility. I believe that the capacity to catalyse or to start hostel development for the frail aged should be vested with the organisations, always subject of course to the approval of the Department or the Commonwealth Government, but also there should be a capacity for the Government itself to catalyse such development. It seems to me to be a peculiar situation that our response to the needs of the aged in terms of aged persons accommodation and the frail aged in terms of hostel accommodation, is met only to the extent that bodies rise up with spontaneity and seek to raise funds through the churches and various organisations with benevolent intent. In other words, without that sort of catalysing component which we vest very heavily in the churches, the service clubs and the benevolent institutions, it is possible to see a situation where entire communities could be deprived of the benefit of Australian Government assistance both for aged persons homes and for hostels. Therefore I believe that this prerogative to catalyse should follow in the wake of a careful government analysis of the community needs that prevail throughout Australia. We cannot depend on the spontaneity of a church organisation although it is welcome where it exists. But, in some situations it should readily be conceded that it is just not there or, to the extent that it is there, it may not represent the extent of activity that will result in a solution of the problem that prevails. 
I say this in a broad sense but I also say that the Australian Government in this matter should take unto itself the prerogative of utilising the provisions of this Act in respect of the established organisations, whether they have received assistance under the 1957 provisions or whether they are receiving assistance under the 1976 provisions which provide a $4 for $1 subsidy. As I have said, this Bill provides very worthwhile benefits. I believe that it represents an isolated element of benevolence on the part of the Government in the area of social welfare- a government which in other respects is mounting an assault on social welfare. Tomorrow, as we all know, thousands of people will come to Canberra concerned with social service matters, as the teachers came here last Thursday concerned with education matters. I believe an assault is being contemplated as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has already mentioned. He has called on the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to give an assurance that this particular scheme will not be jettisoned or adversely affected by the Budget cuts that are being contemplated. We have all read in the Press, even of today's date, considerable mention of this kind of conjecture. There has already been opposition to the 93 per cent pension increases. There has already been a delay in paying pension increases which has cost the pensioner community some $29m. There has been an attempted assault on funeral benefits. Fortunately that has been thwarted but it has given cause for widespread concern. There has been a complete denial of the need to upgrade pensioners' children's allowances, and of course there is now strong doubt on whether the program for the elimination of the means test is to be proceeded with. 
We read today that there is a secret report from the Income Security Review Commission and it is contended that this legislation is under threat through the recommendations of that Commission. It is contended that this subsidy will be cut from $4 to $1 to $2 to $1. We know that there is also conjecture that child endowment is to be curtailed and, of course, maternity allowances are the subject of similar conjecture. I believe in this particular matter we have this isolated element of benevolence, but there is good reason why the Government should take this attitude and why it should encourage activity under the Aged Persons Hostels Amendment Bill. The reason has been spelled out clearly by the Minister. The more we engage in activity under the provisions of this Bill the less we are likely to incur expense in terms of subsidies for the home nursing program which in terms of unit care costs is of a far greater order. 
To recapitulate, the purpose of the Aged Persons Hostel Amendment Bill is simply to give effect to the Labor Government's commitment to approve all outstanding proposals under section 5 of the Act on or before 27 September 1975 but to defer in a number of cases the making of a grant because of the then unavailability of funds. This Bill simply extends the date to enable those deferrals to be accommodated. It follows that the Opposition supports the legislation. The Labor Government gave practical expression to its concern for the aged in many ways. During its term of office the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act was amended, increasing financial aid for organisations. In 1974-75 grants were increased from $21m to $43m. Subsidies were increased from $2 for $1 to $4 for $1. The maximum subsidy for building rose from $7,800 to $9,360 for single accommodation and from $9,100 to $10,920 for double accommodation. Then, of course, there were subsidies for land. These were increased. First of all they were initiated by a Labor government but subsequently that same government increased the land element from $1,600 to.$l,920 for every unit built. 
We moved in the personal care subsidy area to help organisations which conducted hostels so they could provide personal care and the personal care subsidy was increased from $ 12 to $ 1 5 a week. This subsidy was extended by the Labor Government to some 1 1 156 people in 456 hostels at a cost of $7.6m per annum. In 1975 the aged persons homes provisions were also greatly supported in that Labor gave approval to 228 grants to help build homes for old people at a cost of $37.2m. In addition hostels incurred an expenditure of $38. 8m. So I think it is fair to say that the previous Government had a very good record in this regard. In 1971-72 total expenditure on pensions and benefits under the Social Services Act was equivalent to 3.3 per cent of gross domestic product. In 1974-75 it rose to 4.8 per cent. The total paid in pensions and benefits in 1971-72 was $l,200m, and this rose to $ 1,560m in 1972-73, $ 1,944m in 1973-74 and $2,8 12m in 1974-75. 
On 15 April 1976 the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  issued a Press release under the heading 'Domiciliary Nursing Benefit Care Extended'. He said: 
A review of the scheme had pointed up an anomalous situation in regard to people living in aged persons complexes which had no hostel or nursing home attached to them, or which contained a hostel but employed no nursing staff. 
He went on to announce that as a result the domiciliary nursing care benefit would be extended to people living in these aged persons homes. I commend him for that activity, and I believe that that kind of concept could be expanded to very great benefit. There is no reason at all why we cannot provide a greater range of domiciliary nursing services to people who live in aged persons homes so that these homes will take on a hostel-type characteristic. Of course we can provide not just nursing home support but also an extension of the meals on wheels services and whatever else is needed to transform an ordinary aged persons home situation into a hostel-type situation. Overall the Opposition is pleased that the Government has given effect to the commitment made in respect of sustaining this very important program which benefits such a large number of people in Australia who have the need for hostel care. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
Is it the Government's intention to reduce its budget by $130m by deferring or abandoning 250 Government construction projects; if so, what are the projects affected and the estimated capital cost in each case. 
asked the Minister for Busi ness and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the nature of records kept in respect of persons suspected, apprehended, searched and convicted under the Customs Act. 
What statistics are available to indicate the incidence of people stripped of their clothing and searched by Customs officials. 
Are film records ever kept of incidents involving searches when the removal of clothing is required. 
What  prima facie  evidence is needed about a possible offence before an action involving a search by the removal of clothing is undertaken. 
What rights are available to persons required to remove clothing for the purpose of a search by Customs officials, and how are such rights notified to the suspect. 
What are the qualifications of persons authorised to instruct travellers to remove clothes and to conduct searches for Customs purposes. 
Are existing provisions under the Customs Act sufficient to safeguard human rights and dignity. 
Is an apology invariably extended to persons unjustifiably subjected to searches. 
-I appreciate the courtesy extended by my colleague. I am gratified to hear the comments that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  made in tabling this report in respect of the royal commission conducted into the Laverton affair, well known as the Skull Creek affair. I believe that the report fully justifies the stand taken by the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  who, against great odds and despite the reluctance of the Western Australian Premier, despite the reluctance of the Minister for Community Welfare in the Western Australian Government and despite the opposition of the Police Commissioner and the  Deputy  Police Commissioner, persisted with the idea of probing this unfortunate incident. 
It is 16 months today since the Skull Creek incident occurred on 5 January 1975. As the Minister has pointed out, some 74 men, women and children were on their way in a large-scale mobile party moving from Warburton to Wiluna for the purpose of a rain making and man making ceremony. As a result of the lack of understanding on the part of the police, that force which was substantially oriented towards a religious observance was unjustifiably set upon. The sequel, of course, was that there was very grave mishandling of the Aboriginal people involved. Some 22 police were involved in the raid and some 22 Aboriginal people were apprehended and found guilty of offences which had never been committed. They were locked in cells. What has been revealed and acknowledged by the Minister in his summary of the report is that there has been a conspiracy. This adds up to a sorry blot on the reputation of the Western Australian police force. To some degree it must be regarded as reflecting the prejudice which prevails to too large a degree around Australia towards the Aboriginal community. 
There were 3 inquiries before the royal commission was conducted. It says something of whitewashing processes that those inquiries could have taken place without the evidence which was subsequently revealed. The first inquiry was the official police investigation. It in every way exonerated the police. It lent no credence at all to the contention of a police conspiracy, to the contention of provocation, to the contention of misunderstanding on the part of the police, to the contention that there was a complete lack of knowledge of Aboriginal behaviour in situations of this kind, to the contention of mishandling by the police, to the contention of heavy handedness by the police or to the contention of police brutality. The Aboriginal people were left looking culpable; they were left looking like a drunken rabble whereas, in fact, that has been established as contrary to the facts of the situation. 
The second inquiry was conducted by a magistrateMagistrate Sydall- who was said to be sympathetic to Aboriginal people, having worked and lived in their communities and also having been a member of the police force. The position in regard to this inquiry, which was initiated by the Western Australian Government was that the magistrate, regardless of any good intentions he may have had, was left inadequately clothed with powers so that there was no privilege and no evidence taken under oath. Finally at the end of this secret inquiry, there was a secret report which I do not think has effectively seen the light of day. So in every respect that inquiry can be regarded as very limited in its findings. 
The third report was prepared by the Laverton Joint Study Group. This report was made public. The attention of  Senator Cavanagh  was drawn to the seriousness of this position. What the Minister has said today can be summarised in these terms: The Minister said that the report represents disturbing reading. The police have arrested and imprisoned innocent people on a considerable scale. The police have fabricated charges. The police proposed to fabricate evidence through other police who were not witnesses. The police prepared bogus charge sheets, that is, they destroyed the initial sheets and produced other sheets. The police conspired to say that on arrival at Skull Creek, the Aboriginal people were fighting whereas in fact it has been established through the royal commission that that was not the case. Senior Inspector Hilton has been named by the royal commission as having knowledge that the police had prepared false charges and that he acquiesced in that process. The police altered the charges. The initial charges and the subsequent charges have been established as being untrue. The Minister said that this was a most deliberate attempt to pervert the administration of justice. He has also made the point that contrary to the claims that were widely made by Western Australian authorities, alcohol was not the cause of this incident at all. He made the point that it had been established that the officer in charge was lacking in knowledge in regard to the customs and traditions of the Aboriginal people. In every way the Aboriginal people have been vindicated and my ministerial predecessor,  Senator Cavanagh,  has been vindicated as well. I believe congratulations are due to him from the Australian Parliament, the Aboriginal people and indeed the people of this country as a whole since it has now been established that it can happen that Aboriginal people can be unfairly and vindictively dealt with on a large scale. 
There are many other matters which justify such a comprehensive inquiry. Honourable gentlemen are aware of various disturbances that have taken place in the Northern Territory. One I recall took place at Fink where 3 Aboriginal people were ordered away from the water tank by railway workers. As a result a disturbance occurred and the Aboriginal people were very badly treated. There was another incident at Fink when an out of town policeman came into town shooting his revolver indiscriminately. There have been a number of incidents which, in the course of my ministerial period of office caused me to commit myself on behalf of the then Government to a comprehensive inquiry into Aboriginal-police relations in the Northern Territory. 
I know that  Senator Cavanagh  has talked about the case of Paula Sweet in Alice Springs. She was the Aboriginal girl who was murdered. It was a murder in respect of which 2 Aboriginal people were charged with murder, assault and attempted rape and four were charged with assault and attempt to rape. All were subsequently released but only after it had been established that the police had conspired to fabricate evidence and to cause those unsuspecting victims to utter words which had not originated from them and which did not in fact represent the true situation. All this is now widely known but there has not been a comprehensive inquiry into the affairs of Paula Sweet. 
Towards the end of the Labor Government's period of office, on behalf of the Government, I had made the commitment for a royal commission into Aboriginal-police relations in the Northern Territory in regard to a series of incidents and the general position. This was not just for the purpose of vindictively searching out people who had offended in the past and bringing them to the bar of justice, but for the purpose of preventing a recurrence of the kind of situation which has characterised Aboriginal-police relations for far too long. The terms of reference had been drawn up. Indeed, since there has been large scale evidence of bad treatment of Aboriginal people by the courts, the police, institutional people and many others associated with justice, I sought at the request of the Aboriginal Legal Service and a large number of other legal people and persons involved with social welfare organisations to extend the terms of that inquiry past the Northern Territory on to a Australia wide basis. As  Senator Cavanagh  mentioned in another place only yesterday, there is some doubt as to the constitutionality of such an inquiry being held throughout Australia having regard to the Australian Government's prerogative. It was for that reason that I had proposed that the inquiry to be conducted in the Northern Territory should be extended into the States of Australia to the extent that those States were prepared to welcome it. To his credit, the Premier of South Australia, on behalf of the South Australian Government, immediately responded without any delay to my request and said that such an inquiry would be welcomed in South Australia. 
I believe that the matter which the Minister has raised today, the manner in which he has raised it and the comments he has made give credence to the idea that the Laverton report should not be an end unto itself. I believe that a  prima facie  case has been made out and should cause governments, preferably in a co-operative way, to hold an inquiry, preferably in my view by a royal commission process, to probe thoroughly all aspects of Aboriginal-police relations. One thing has been well established not only at Laverton but in many other places. Far too many policemen who have a real prerogative in such situations know little or nothing about Aboriginal culture. There are too many instances where the police involved with indigenous people who do not speak the English language have no knowledge of the tribal language and no one in the force can effectively communicate with the Aboriginal people. One only has to look at the statistics to see the great incidence of injustice which is done to Aboriginal people. 
I would like to see the inquiry extended to examine the role of the Aboriginal Legal Service which has done very worthwhile work on behalf of Aboriginal people since its incorporation in July 1973. Since that time the organisation has given representation in some 48 000 legal matters. Without a special assault of a positive nature with an inclination, a sympathy and an orientation about Aboriginal interests, the injustice which has characterised Aboriginal-police relations in the past will continue. 
I have not had the opportunity of reading the report although I have read some Press accounts of it in the Western Australian Press. I believe that the Minister has established that he is not biased and that he has a reasonable attitude about these matters. But I say to the Minister who has summarised the Laverton report in a fair and reasonable way that Laverton simply shows that there is need to lift the curtain on a much larger scale. I suggest to him that the comprehensive nation-wide royal commission which the Labor Government had in mind and which was coming near to finality on 1 1 November last should be given effect to by this Government and that all governments in Australia should be asked to co-operate in the probe which all of us would hope will bring a fair go and justice to Aboriginal people who have been subjected to indignity for far too long in respect of these matters. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What qualifications, expertise and experience with Aboriginal affairs equip  Mr David  Hay for his appointment to conduct an inquiry into matters relating to the administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Where will  Mr Hay  be headquartered. 
What staff will he have. 
What remuneration and allowances will be available to him. 
5 ) Over what period will the inquiry extend. 
What is the estimated cost of the inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What pharmaceutical benefits have been removed from the schedules to the National Health Act since 1 1 November 1975. 
In respect of each benefit removed, what  is  (a) the reason for removal, (b) the recommended substitute and (c) the estimated cost saving. 
-The matter that I wish to raise briefly concerns the administration of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  It is a matter that is having a very serious effect on the delivery of news presentation in Australia. Journalists and cine cameramen employed by the Aus.tralian Broadcasting Commission are refusing to go on any unscheduled flights- that is, charter flights. Royal Australian Air Force flights or Service flights- because of the pitifully inadequate reimbursement that their families would receive in the event of death or injury. I am told that the Government has forbidden the ABC to provide life assurance for employees engaged in unscheduled or hazardous flying. It apparently has told the ABC that its employees must fall in line with the compensation offered the families of other public servants under the Air Accidents (Australian Government Liability) Act 1963-1973. This Act provides a sum of $30,000 to an employee's family if he is killed in an unscheduled flight. 
Until recently, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has provided life assurance of $18,000 and has arranged with the assurance company providing the cover to extend an extra $20,000 at nominal rates to be taken up privately by the employee. This total of $38,000 has become obviously inadequate, particularly when compared to the still inadequate $75,000 provided to newspaper journalists and cameramen under similar circumstances in the Metropolitan Dailies Award. However, even this $38,000 coverage has been discontinued on instructions from the Federal Government. The ABC has stopped also a special coverage of $50,000 for overseas correspondents on hazardous assignments in such places as Belfast and the Middle East, including Lebanon. 
The Air Accidents (Australian Government Liability) Act is so constructed as to absorb any additional assurance carried by the employee. Thus, if the employee carried personal assurance of, say, $20,000, that sum would be deducted from the $30,000 available to the employee's family in the event of death, and the Government would provide $10,000 only. Thus, even if an employee wished to take out his own personal assurance to provide, say, $20,000 more than the Act would give, he would have to insure for $50,000, carrying $30,000 worth of useless premiums. The situation is complicated also by the fact that most personal life assurance policies have an 'out' clause exempting the insurance company from liability in the event of death on an unscheduled flight. 
More often than not, Australian Broadcasting Commission journalists and cameramen called on to undertake unscheduled flying assignments are flying in conditions that are hazardous in themselves. For instance, they are using helicopter or service flights to cover natural disasters such as floods or bushfires and charter flights to flood-bound airstrips or remote locations not serviced by regular airlines. ABC cameramen at meetings in Sydney and in other States have decided not to fly unless they are provided with life assurance of at least $125,000 on unscheduled nights. Following meetings of journalists in Sydney and other State capitals the Australian Journalists Association has instructed its members employed by the ABC not to undertake any unscheduled flying until an adequate cover is provided. The Sydney meeting advised the AJA that it felt that such a cover would be based on a sum calculated at 10 years salary at B grade journalists' rates. It was felt that a sum based on salary rates rather than a flat amount would guard against erosion of the value of the insurance through inflation. 
The journalists also asked the AJA to seek provisions similar to those in the Metropolitan Dailies Award by which the employer must indemnify the employee against invalidation of his own personal life assurance policies through unscheduled flying. The ABC, with its journalists and cameramen grounded for all but scheduled flights, has been negotiating with the Public Service Board for the right to provide its own life assurance again, but so far these negotiations have been unsuccessful. The AJA is also asking the ABC to provide adequate life assurance for journalists on other hazardous assignments both in Australia and overseas. I sincerely hope that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications might have an early look at this matter to see that justice is done and so that the Australian public will not unfairly be deprived of an effective news presentation which is at present occurring as a result of this dispute. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of research reports on poverty which remain unpublished and for which no budgetary provision for publishing has been made. 
Is it intended to facilitate distribution of these reports; if so, what will be the extent of their availability. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have the wonder diet weight reducing methods of the Obesity and Genontology Research Clinic, 175 Pitt Street, Sydney, been subjected to any study to determine if they, in fact, produce worthwhile benefits to clients; if so, what are the details of the studies and the results obtained. 
Can he say whether the proprietor of this Clinic has any qualifications recognised by any Australian Medical Registration Board. 
Can he also say whether the Clinic extensively uses the drug HCG, Human Chorionic Gonadotropin, a hormone taken from pregnant women which specialists in obstetrics and gynaecology describe as useless. 
Can he also say what charges are made by the Clinic, and what benefits are available to its patients under Medibank. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What progress is being made towards resolving the serious accommodation problem currently experienced by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What apprenticeship intake occurred in respect of each Department during each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What curtailment has occurred in respect of his predecessor's intentions to establish new Legal Aid Offices during 1975-76. 
What criteria changes have occurred in respect of client eligibility and case categories for Australian Legal Aid Office assistance during his period of office. 
-Will the Prime Minister confirm or deny reports that the Government is seeking to transfer to the States responsibility for defence service homes, home savings grants and other housing activities? Does he- share my view that such a move would have disastrous consequences for home seekers and would also pauperise the States? 
-The Opposition is quite unequivocal, quite unambiguous in its attitude on this matter. It intends to oppose this clause because it represents a very retrograde step that will affect the well-being of a very large number of people. I suppose that we can play around before we get to that stage and give some consideration to the fairly innocuous amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  It will not affect very many people. It is a little bit of dusting after the place has been completely devastated. But if it gives him any satisfaction we will be supporting him. I believe that it should give him, as one who knows a bit about housing, some satisfaction to know that the Opposition will not have a bar of the Government's declared intention to bite so heavily into the tax deductibility of the mortgage interest scheme. This scheme was introduced to provide benefit for the home seeking Australian community. More than one million families are at present benefiting as a result of this provision which I understand is incurring or involving expenditure in excess of $120m a year 
The honourable gentleman has already mentioned what this Government is doing. The people do not yet know what is intended because they were lulled into a state of false security at election time and on many other occasions. The present Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  who was the shadow Minister at the time I was the Minister for Housing and Construction, assured the House time and time again that if there was a change of government there would be no jettisoning of the deductability of mortgage interest rates for tax purposes. Unqualified assurances were given to that effect. If I had the time I could refer the Committee to those promises and undertakings chapter and verse. The same undertakings were made during the election campaign. 
As I have said, one million families have been benefiting to a very considerable extent. How many will now be deprived of the benefit which from now on will be confined to people who are paying off their first home and will be limited to the first 5 years? I did a rough check- it is impossible to check with any accuracy-of people who are receiving the benefit in my electorate which is, if you like, a post-war electorate, an electorate where most of the development took place in the 1 950s and 1 960s. I venture to say that in my electorate 10 000 people currently receiving a substantial kind of benefit will be deprived of that benefit. 
Why was the benefit introduced by the Labor Government? I think everyone knows that in the face of inflation interest rates rose and the building societies were extremely concerned that people did not have the capacity to qualify for a loan. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is completely off the beam in respect of this matter when he says that the scheme is insufficient and wasteful and not getting to the core of the problem, which is the deposit gap. Let me assure him that the problem involves a lot more than the consideration of deposit gaps. 
As the Minister for Housing and Construction at that time, I had it put to me in an official way by the permanent building societies and the terminating building societies that they were unable to expand their funds because of the incapacity of people to meet the repayments. Many loans have been negotiated on the basis of the benefits flowing from the tax deductibility of mortgage interest. That is to say, without tax deductibility of mortgage interest the people concerned would not have been able to meet the weekly repayments on their mortgages. If honourable gentlemen opposite do not know about that, they do not know anything at all about housing. They will find out why already petitions on this matter have come spontaneously from people all over Australia who are starting to learn that this Government is taking from them something which is of great importance. 
Let me just mention the amounts of money that the Government is taking away. I have 2 tables which the Minister assisting the Treasurer has been good enough to indicate he will allow me to have incorporated in  Hansard.  The first table sets out the effect of mortgage interest deductibility. It shows the tax saving of a taxpayer with a dependent wife and 2 dependent non-student children at various levels of income using the 1975-76 tax rates. It is assumed in the table that the $540 rebate was claimed at all income levels. It is also assumed in the table that taxpayers at various levels of income make identical interest payments of $1,440 a year- that is, 12 per cent interest on an outstanding debt of $12,000. The second table shows the tax savings on mortgage interest deduction at a rate of interest of 10 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate the 2 tables in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many Members of the House of Representatives have presented petitions calling for the restoration of milk substitutes for children suffering from milk allergy, asthma and other respiratory complaints. 
When will the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee meet to consider restoring this benefit. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many applications for permission to enter Australia for permanent residence have been- 
approved, and 
b) rejected since he became a Minister. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What was the number of (a) registered unemployed and (b) recipients of unemployment benefit in the categories of (i) adult males, (ii) adult females, (iii) junior males and (iv) junior females for each New South Wales regional employment office in each quarter of 1 975 and in 1 976 to date. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
-The fallacy of expounding the advantages for patients in being able to choose their own doctor has by now, I feel sure, been very well established to the satisfaction of most people in Australia. An opinion poll was taken within the Parliamentary Labor Party as to who was the best doctor. A number of names were thrown in. I can recall that they included  Dr Cass, Dr Klugman  and  Dr Everingham.  When the result came out the winner was  Dr Cairns,  who is a doctor of philosophy, and  Dr Patterson,  who I think had a degree in Agricultural Economics, was the next most favoured choice of the Opposition. Their bedside manner is admirable. I think that typifies the situation around Australia. The fact of the matter is that patients have no capacity in the area of determining a doctor's skill. Bedside manner may be an enticement in improving a candidate's rating, but it is no factor at all in a critical diagnostic situation. It is certainly no factor when one is on an operating table. 
The implicit faith that some people have in one doctor for all purposes, whether it be an obstetric condition, a renal condition or a cerebral condition is quite sad to behold these days, because there is no doctor who is the man for all cases, the be-all and the end-all of the entire medical spectrum. In my view, too many doctors seek to exceed their capacity, often with highly deleterious consequences to the patient and the public at large. Yet the Government trades on this fallacy. It perpetuates this myth that it is an important consideration that people should be free to choose their own doctor. As the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has pointed out today, and as he pointed out yesterday with the support of statistical evidence from overseas, the more this is done the more the patient suffers. There is a very great differential in a situation where on the one hand people put their lives in the hands of an incompetent doctorthat is probably in a private hospital situationor on the other hand they put their prospects and their destiny into the hands of a total medical complex of expertise. Such situations are occurring around Australia. If people insist on the right to choose a doctor, if they insist on the right to private accommodation they could just as easily in any case be financed through Medibank. The point that I really stood up to make is that there is no case for resurrecting this albatross, this monstrosity, this private health insurance fund system which, was discredited a long time ago. 
The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman),  who was sitting at the table, is obviously more skilled with howitzers than he is in the consideration of health policy. He seems to be just appalled by the fact that the estimate of expenditure on health this year is in the vicinity of $ 1,400m. If it had been $800m he might have been just as scared. It is a lot of money. But the honourable member for Maribyrnong has pointed out that all these things are paid for anyway by the community. For some reason or other the Minister and the Government have this obsession that it is a totally bad thing for too much of this inevitable burden to come through the public sector. We are talking about 6.4 per cent of the total Budget outlay in this particular situation. That is a lot of money, but we will not reduce it by the process that the Government has enunciated. The likelihood is that the situation will be seriously aggravated. As the Minister said earlier during the second reading speech back in 1973, the entire ramification of voluntary health insurance contributed only 14 per cent to health costs. Then in 1976, the current financial year, 8 per cent of total costs will be contributed from that source. This system has been exposed previously. I took a part in exposing it a decade or so ago. There was public revulsion when all the facts were made known, when it was realised that such a large number of funds were in existence. I can remember at one stage there were 1 88 hospital and medical benefit funds all competing. They had duplicated resources, great skyscraper buildings, duplicated computers, duplicated managers and all the staff competing with one another. Masses of money were expended in respect of public relations. Honourable members will remember the scandal at the time that some of the funds were acquiring aeroplanes. As I say, the public became very concerned about this massive and unnecessary rip-off. As a result, the decision was taken to minimise the involvement of health funds. 
The fact of the matter is that this entire concept, this great, cumbersome concept of voluntary health insurance is unnecessary. It can be likened to a steamroller assailing an elephant. It does a lot of huffing and puffing, it costs a lot to run, it deflates everything it touches and it never hits the main trunk route anyway. It simply represents an obsession on the part of this Government. No wonder there are confusion and disenchantment. People are now going to be driven off into this area of voluntary health insurance which will sap the viability and the vitality of the funds that are available for health purposes in Australia. The Minister said that he wanted to emphasise that the only difference between coverage by Medibank and coverage under the standard private health insurance tables would be that Medibank will provide cover for treatment in public hospitals rendered by doctors engaged by the hospital, whereas the standard private insurance tables will relate to shared accommodation in public or private hospitals with treatment by doctors engaged by the patient. Apart from that, he said, there would be no difference in entitlements, for example the medical benefits for treatment by a private practitioner outside a hospital would be the same. So that is where the difference lies- in respect of the choice of a doctor and a person's right to go into a private hospital. 
There is no doubt that a patient is disadvantaged if he chooses his own doctor without knowing the doctor's relevant merit in the specialised field that concerns his particular ailment. A patient is certainly disadvantaged if he goes into an all-purpose hospital that lacks equipmentand this is often the case with private hospitals. Where are the renal facilities, where are the x-ray facilities, where are the facilities that one would see in a normal intensive care ward in a decent regional public hospital? We are not talking in terms of bricks and mortar, we are talking about the capacity of a hospital to save people's lives. I think it is to the eternal disgrace of this country that the Government is seeking to mesmerise the Australian community with the fallacious idea that there are advantages in going into such a gloppy situation. There are proper obligations on the part of a government and they are, to make certain that in every regional hospital there are salaried and sessional fee doctors, that there are adequate elements of equipment. But instead of that situation we find that it is off to the local quack who, the Government wants people to believe, is capable of performing every service. It is off to the local privately run hospital which in terms of medical audits has shown its capacity to keep people in hospital longer and to end their lives earlier. If we look at the Royal Newcastle Hospital which was run for many years under the administration of  Dr Chris  McCaffrey, we find the high principles which have motivated the objectives which the Labor Party pursues on health. It is a shame that honourable members opposite, particularly the Minister, did not take the opportunity to see the alternative. Medibank is capable of accommodating all the handling of financial considerations. We do not need to turn the people over to this great conglomeration of health funds, which will cause confusion. It will wreak havoc in the hospital and health delivery system of Australia. 
-The House is discussing the Government's economic policy. On 20 May the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  enunciated that policy. The Government has hoisted its own flag by now as a government. Up to this point the Government has lived under the Labor Budget, but now it stands alone. As its flag goes up we can already see that it is tattered and mottled. Indeed, the Government is unprincipled. We have heard statements preceding that made on 20 May by the Treasurer. We have had several- maybe three- in the last 2 months. People are talking about the Treasurer's statements now as Lynch 's economic roulette; you never know where the dice is going to land. We have this stab in the dark at the present time. 
The Treasurer said that he was concerned about reining in growth in the public sector. It is always the public sector. The magic formula is that you can spend what you like and make a quid out of it as long as you are not spending in the public sector. That is regarded as a crime. The Treasurer talks about lightening the load on the Budget by moderating Medibank to the tune of some $800m and cutting many other services -'cutting' is hardly the word to use; 'slashing' would be more appropriate. Some $2,600m has been hived off the forward estimates but of course they are selective services which have been cut. I have no doubt that the Prime Minister, with all his discernment for high principles, will shortly announce that he too will be participating in the sacrifices that have to be made- he will not take the $5,000 handout in the form of a superphosphate bounty. 
-No, of course he will not! An amount of $ 100m has been allocated in the form of this sort of handout. I have no doubt, even if the honourable member for Riverina does not appreciate it, that the Prime Minister will be making a sacrifice as well in the future. 1 have confidence to that effect. There is to be a smaller deficit. This is an achievement that the Government sees as virtuous. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I think the honourable member for Riverina is carrying on a little bit. I think that we should tone things down a little bit. 
-Of course, this deficit is to be achieved by distorted priorities. Even the harbouring of the idea of a deficit is said to be good for the economy. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
There are sufficient signs now for believing that economicrecovery is under way . . . The real threat to a sustainable, long term recovery is . . . inflation. If inflation continues unchecked, ... at its present crippling rate, businessmen will continue to place first emphasis upon survival and the avoidance of any risk. They will postpone investment and pare inventories and employment to the bone. Consumers will save rather than spend. 
To my mind this is as intimidatory as it is possible to be. He went on to advise and advocate wage restraint. It seems as though this Government has two punching bags- the workers' wages and Medibank. 
For a long while now the principles of wage indexation have been advocated. They were advocated by the former Labor Government; indeed they were initiated by the Labor Government. But now, of course, this principle is embraced by the present Government, but its attitude, unfortunately, has lacked consistency. The Government has lacked consistency in the national wage case through its intervention, and its advocacy of a bastardised wage indexation concept. The Government has destroyed the hope of winning worker confidence. What does the Government in fact stand for in respect of wage indexation? Does it stand for total indexation regardless of salary level? Does it stand for a plateau on wage indexation? Does it stand for some sort of anaemic indexation which is going to set aside the movement in government charges watered down to exclude the Medibank levy? The Prime Minister, I believe, has to face the fact that the ordinary people do not trust him in respect of this matter. The worker is to become a punching bag in the Prime Minister's pursuit for solvency and for the assault on inflation. 
The unions have become tolerant and cooperative. But the Government has to level with them somwhere along the line. The wages of workers over the medium and long term are entitled to increase as they did under Labor. There are many anomalous wage situations in many industries which ought to be redressed. But there is no sign that the Government is going to face up to these matters. But these matters cannot be swept under the carpet if the Government is to have the co-operation of unionists throughout Australia. Of course people are concerned about the assault on their employment and the threat to their livelihood. They are starting to get the sneaking feeling that the Liberal emphasis, which has prevailed over the years and which is along the lines of workers being lined up outside the gate, is the basic philosophy of this Government. 
Let us look at what has occurred in respect of economic curtailment. This afternoon, of course, we talked about Medibank and the very drastic mutilation that has occurred in respect of that program. The fact of the matter is that the Prime Minister gave an unequivocal promise to maintain Medibank and to ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. But it is declining. So far as Medibank is concerned there is uncertainty on the part of the health funds as to their capacity to participate. There is heavy handedness with the States which have not been consulted and may not yet co-operate. There is a bewildered medical profession. There is a proliferation of anomalies and injustices which will take years to remedy. 
Then, of course, there is an assault on the general health area. However, before I deal with the area of health may I say that the Government's policy on Medibank is the greatest political somersault of all time. The Liberal and Country Party controlled Senate in the lifetime of the Labor Government rejected and tossed over the proposed Labor Government levy of 1.35 per cent. After that we see the innovation of a  2lA  per cent levy. The entire area of public health has become the victim of this Government's misguided economic policies. The so-called fiscal policy decisions in respect of the health budget, excluding Medibank, contained in the Treasurer's package deal has been slashed by $100m. The hospital development program has been reduced to $107m- a chop of $43m. This will have highly deleterious consequences to the people in many regions. Not only are existing buildings inadequate but also more are needed. Old ones need replacement. Hospitals are desperately deficient in modern equipment, in x-ray, pathology, and heart equipment and other facilities. Few hospitals have sufficient salaried and sessional fee medicos and most lack the constant availability of the medical expertise that is needed. 
Out-patient services are running down and are virtually non-existent except for the most serious emergency cases. Why, in New South Wales the Willis Liberal Government all but abandoned the out-patient hospital system. Domiciliary services are the subject of almost total indifference and mainly notable for their non-existence. The community health services and facilities program, barely lifted off the ground, has now been slashed by $2 4m. Curtailments will bite into the family planning activities, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories expansion program, the fight against tuberculosis which has been waged since 1948 and which has now been slashed by $9m, the school dental scheme and many others. There has been a massive cutting of pharmaceutical benefits. Some 150 items to the tune of $9m have been cut in recent months. Any honourable member here who makes himself available to his electorate would have been confronted by a constituent who has been told by a doctor that it is essential to take a drug or medicine which is now off the list. As I have said, 150 such items have been removed from the list in the last few months. 
The Government's measures have affected even the pharmacists themselves. I will not dwell on this matter, because it is  sub judice.  But a High Court action is concerned with the fact that pharmacists believe that they have been taken for a ride, that the Government has been trying to get them on the cheap and is robbing them of millions of dollars. So it goes on. The Government bemoans a modest increase which health expenditure is incurring as a percentage of gross national product. Why, 25 years ago health services represented 5.2 per cent of gross domestic product, which is the term now used. Today health services represent 6.5 per cent. This, of course, is the subject of all this resentment. 
I have made some reference to health and I will turn now to some other areas. In the housing area the mortgage interest tax deduction scheme is going to be abandoned. Something like half a million families are going to be deprived of tax deductibility on their mortgage interest rates. The housing commission area, which deals with housing for the low income people, is now under review. It is obvious that there is going to be a curtailment of something like $100m in expenditure for the State housing programs. As a result rents will soar to astronomical levels. As well there will be a reduction in the number of houses being built. 
In the urban affairs area the estimates of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development have been reduced by $400m. What about the land commission which were the hope of the land hungry people? The only prospect of getting land prices down is now on the skids. The sewerage program has been slashed from $145m to $50m. There are many other exotic ideas affected. For example the Glebe project has had its budget reduced from $5m to Sl.lm. The allocation for the National Parks and Wildlife Service has been reduced. Then there are the cuts in the allocation to the growth centres. Heavens knows where people are going to live in the future. 
We have seen the slashing of $45m from the growth centre program. The Albury-Wodonga growth centre looks like becoming a decadent, dead sort of a place- a future that was never fulfilled. Then there are the cuts in the budgets for Bathurst-Orange, Campbelltown, Holsworthy, Monarto. And so it goes on. In the transport area, following the 1 5 per cent increase in air navigation charges, air fares will rise. Road programs have been cut from $453m to $220m. In the Territories there is an appalling story to be told. There will be massive increases in all sorts of licence charges, car registrations, fares, water services, power costs and stamp duties. Look at the social welfare area. For the first time in Australia's history unemployment, sickness and supporting mothers' benefits and pensions will be subject to taxation. This will also involve widows' pensions and service pensions. 
This Government has no principles at all. It has abandoned the Federal grants for the senior citizens program. It has cut into the aged persons programs. The Australian Assistance Plan has been abandoned. The Federal Government is going to leave it to the States. The students who are stacked up for their second or subsequent degree will now have to pay fees. Of course fees were abolished for all students under a Labor Government. There are massive cuts to the education program. The Government construction program has been cut by $60m. The Budget allocation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been cut by $ 10m, and the allocation to the Department of Post and Telecommunications has been cut by $250m. There have been cuts in the allocation for Aboriginal Affairs. How could this Government dare to think of slashing into the allocation for Aboriginal Affairs? Prior to the Labor Party coming to office, the previous 
Government was spending $30m on Aboriginal Affairs. We raised that figure to $190m. But now the innocent, the weak, the most harmless people, the most needy people will be the victims of this program which tonight the Prime Minister was so intent on eulogising. One could go on. All we can say is that the people of this country can now see the chickens coming home to roost. It is an appalling program and one of which all honourable members opposite should be ashamed. 
-This Bill, the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill, is a hardy perennial. It is certainly not without significance as it involves the expenditure of $40,790,000. It authorises the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to make that amount of money available to the States for a range of very important services affecting the Aboriginal people. The money is allocated to the States for purposes of housing, health, education, employment, welfare, enterprises, management, public utilities and recreation. When these measures are before the House it is usual to cover a wide range of issues affecting Aboriginal people generally. It is appropriate now to talk about Aboriginal affairs because no other issue in Australia appears to be the subject of such violent assault, in terms of allocation of funds, by this Government. The Aboriginal people are extremely concerned about the slowing down and even the abandonment of many initiatives taken by the Labor Government. Within 6 months of taking office this Government has welshed on the firm and unequivocal commitments it made to the Aboriginal people and to the Australian people generally about Aboriginal affairs. 
Let me say at the outset that this Bill is not opposed by the Opposition which, while in government, strongly supported Aboriginal assistance programs administered by the States and grasped the nettle, as it were, to initiate many far reaching proposals on its own account. Evidence of the support of the Labor Government is contained in the tables incorporated in  Hansard  in the second reading speech on the Bill by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on 1 9 May last, and in far more comprehensive tables which presented to the House on 4 November last year when introducing a similar Bill. Those tables show the substantial increase in allocations made to the States while Labor was in office. I think that the figures tell the story. From an allocation level of $5.4m in 1969-70 we went to $7m in 1970-71 and to $9.2m in 1971-72. That was the stage when the Liberals left office. That figure was progressively increased when Labor came to office until in 1974-75 it reached a peak of $40.79m. which was the amount proposed for 1975-76. Of course I am talking only about appropriations to the States and not the total amount of money made available for Aboriginal purposes. 
In this matter the Government has accepted the judgment of the former Government and of myself as the former Minister as the allocation to be made to the States this year is identical to that which I proposed in the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1975 which was presented to the House on 22 October 1975. That Bill was one of the casualties of the  coup de grace.  It was not passed by either House when the Governor-General dissolved the Parliament on 1 1 November. In passing, let me mention that that matter in itself demonstrated the very great indifference which the Liberal and National Country Parties displayed at that time to the Australian people generally and to needy people in particular, since the failure to grant Supply caused disruption to many Aboriginal programs. There is a great deal of documentation to prove that. Obviously the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was not in a position to go on spending money as it would do in a normal situation. The situation was not normal and there was no certainty that there would be a flow of money. I see the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  sitting at the table. He would know about the need for forward planning in getting supplies and materials to the Northern Territory, getting them onto barges in order to travel long distances and avoiding the wet season. 
The Bill was delayed and there was disruption. Now, 7 months afterwards, an almost identical Bill is before the House again. There are some fundamental differences between this Bill and the one which I introduced last year. The 1975 Bill was to represent a continuing legislative authority by which funds were to be made available to the States for the purpose of implementing programs of assistance to Aboriginal people. In other words, if the 1975 Bill had been passed into law it would have replaced the practice by which a States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill had to be introduced and passed by the Parliament each year. There would have been continuing legislative authority for payment to the States in any year of such amounts as were appropriated by Parliament for that purpose in that year. The present Minister was not then deeply involved with Aboriginal affairs and this matter could well have escaped him. Let me remind him of the comments I made when introducing the 1975 Bill following consultation with senior officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I said on that occasion: 
On the basis of advice from the then Attorney-General it has been the practice since 1968 to introduce each year during the Budget session the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bills for this purpose. Such Bills have been presented in accordance with section 96 of the Constitution and have contained conditions under which the Minister may release funds to the States and recover moneys not expended for the purpose for which they were provided. 
Following upon comments made by the Auditor-General in his Special Report on the Administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the method of appropriation of funds for State programs was changed in the financial year 1974-75; instead of the funds being provided from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, as in previous years, States grants were appropriated under division 806 in Appropriation Act ( No. 2 ) of 1 974-75. 
I also explained that the standing legislation which I was proposing would overcome a deficiency in the existing situation as there is at present no specific legislative authority in terms of section 96 of the Constitution for payment to the States during the Supply period, as the annual States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) legislation had not been enacted in past years until after the introduction of the Budget. 
I know that there is at least one redeeming feature of this legislation which has regard to the matter I have mentioned. I know also that this Bill authorises payment of $20,395,000-that is half the total year's sum- for the 6 months commencing 1 July 1976. But I am not convinced that that covers the points of consternation which caused me, on the advice of my Department, to introduce that continuing authorising legislation. Perhaps the Minister will give the House the courtesy of a reply to these matters. Perhaps he will explain why this advice from the Department is not now to be acted upon and whether in these times when the discerning eye of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is so sharply focussed on financial agreements with the States, as we have seen in respect of health matters, the Commonwealth stands vulnerable in any way so far as States grants for Aboriginal purposes are concerned. 
There is considerable concern in the Australian community today about the Government's entire approach to Aboriginal affairs, and about the sense of priorities involved in the allocation of funds for those purposes. In many ways the momentum achieved during the 3 years of Labor administration has waned. The LiberalCountry Party Administration that preceded the election of a Labor Government in 1972 had failed to grasp the opportunity and encouragement given it by the people in the 1967 referendum when, with an overwhelming voice, the people gave an  imprimatur  to the Australian Government to get on with the job of overcoming years and years of neglect and indifference. 
From an expenditure level of only $30.9m for Aboriginal affairs as provided in the LiberalCountry Party Government Budget of 1971-72, Labor raised direct expenditure to $193m. Let me put the situation again: The allocation was raised from $30.9m under Liberal-Country Party Administration to $193m under the Labor Administration in the 1975-76 Budget. Nobody can cavil at the contention that Labor meant business about Aboriginal affairs. Expenditure had grown from $6 1.1 7m in 1972-73, to $1 17.4m in 1973-74, to $ 163.6m in 1974-75 then up to that record level of $193m. By now of course the present Government has cut the current financial year's allocation of $193m by $7.3m. 
To this time none of us know precisely what is involved in those cuts. Just before I came into the House I had the answer to a question I had placed on notice delivered to my office. I asked: 
What are the details of Budget expenditure curtailments made through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since 1 1 November 1975. 
The cuts that are identified to date amount to $4.072m. Those cuts apply to a number of matters. I mention a few of the significant areas in terms of money and, indeed, importance. The allocation to the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission has been cut by $lm. I know that the waiting list for applications is enormous. The Commission would dearly like to have an increase rather than a substantial decrease in its allocations. Payments to the States with regard to Aboriginal affairs have been cut by $ 1.704m. The Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, which is for miscellaneous purposes, has been cut by $978,000. Other areas affected are advertising, conferences, meetings, consultations, consultancies and support for ecological projects which involve employment opportunities for Aboriginal people in the far north and isolated regions of Australia and in the Torres Strait as well. Similarly the allocation for Aboriginal hostels has been cut even though there are great waiting lists of people seeking accommodation. The Architects Housing Panel allocation has also been cut as has the allocation for the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. So we can see that over $4m of the $7.3m cut in this financial year is accounted for in some degree. 
The Government has also announced its intention to slow down the program heavily through the next Federal Budget. Nobody knows the extent of the proposed program curtailment so every Aboriginal initiative, enterprise and government activity around Australia is in a state of suspense and anxiety. No forward planning is going on, whether it is in respect to the Aboriginal Legal Service or Aboriginal Medical Service or any one of the dozens if not hundreds of organisations that are valiantly trying to overcome the problems encountered by Aboriginal people. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has made it very clear in his speech on the economy on 20 May last that there are going to be hard times ahead for Aboriginal communities and organisations around Australia. He had several goes at this matter and devoted numerous paragraphs to it in his speech. He said that the aggregate amount to be provided for Aboriginal programs in 1976-77 will be significantly less than estimated expenditure in 1975-76 and substantially less than the forward estimates. 
Such an attitude can only involve a blatant breach of faith in that the Liberal-National Country Party spokesman for Aboriginal Affairs during the last election, the present AttorneyGeneral telegraphed all Aboriginal communities with the unequivocal assurance that there would be no cuts in the Aboriginal affairs budget or in the Aboriginal affairs program if a LiberalNational Country Party government was elected to office. In that telegram, the Attorney-General, a man who ought to be pretty careful about saying what he means, told Aboriginal people to vote Liberal-National Country Party on 13 December. He claimed that Aborigines would be better off and not worse off. How can that be reconciled with the Treasurer's statement and a subsequent Press release by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in respect of the appointment of the Hay committee. It is obviously just a committee that is going to set the stage even further for even greater cuts. 
It is true that at least in a number of instances other departments have had their expenditure allocations reduced. But the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is the most indifferently treated of all, in that expenditure reductions remain open-ended. We understand from the gossip that takes place around this place and from the leaks that occur that a further cut in the forthcoming Budget could amount to at least 15 per cent and probably 25 per cent. When we start to think of that in terms of actual cuts on the one hand and cuts in terms of inflation on the other we can see many Aboriginal programs being halved in their intensity, in their importance and in the work that goes on in respect of them. We are told that there are going to be savage cuts in the allocation for Aboriginal hostels and for many Aboriginal enterprises around Australia. The Aboriginal housing program is certain to top the casualty list. The allocation this year is to be cut from the high level of $35m earmarked in Labor's last Budget and will be cut drastically again next August. Apparently expenditure of $ 14m will be maintained for the States' Aboriginal housing program. The main onslaught will be directed against the Aboriginal housing associations for which some $2 1.8m has been earmarked in Labor's Budget. 
The present backlog of Aboriginal housing is, according to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, in the vicinity of 8000 homes. I would not be surprised if the figure were close to double that. But if we average each house at $25,000, which would be an extremely conservative estimate having regard to the high costs prevailing in remote regions, the sum of $200m at existing cost levels would be needed to overcome this backlog in addition to meeting current and recurrent demand. Over 150 housing associations had been established throughout the period of Labor's Administration. Many employed field officers, clerical staff, tradesmen and management personnel. Any wholesale disruption of this program which is based on the edifying principles of self-help and self-determination will cause widespread unemployment, disillusionment and resentment throughout Australia and especially throughout the Aboriginal communities. 
You can dispense with the housing associations and derive some short term benefits by building houses in other ways. After all, prefabricated and module housing systems are readily available and some are already being used to good advantage. But it is important to provide Aboriginal people with the opportunity to take their own decisions as to the type of housing they want. The learning of construction and other skills is another important part of the housing associations' programs. I readily acknowledge that there is a need for better guidelines to prevent the abuse and rip-offs which have occurred with some consulting arrangements. I can see that the Department is not adequately equipped to deal with the problem of running the housing associations. Other departments with expertise in housing and construction should be used to set the criteria for architectural and consultancy commissions. In many instances those departments could, to advantage, replace the consultancies altogether. 
While Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and as a former Minister for Housing and Construction I was gravely concerned about the occasional instances of gross inefficiency, extravagance and inappropriate design and construction of some Aboriginal housing projects. Mistakes are still being made. There are some houses that have cost over $50,000, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would know. There are some houses in isolated regions where the architect has gone mad with expensive free-standing roofs made with massive overscaled steel trusses and also other instances where there has been excessive use of plate glass picture windows which are often the first casualty in an Aboriginal community where broken glass can be seen all over the place. I have seen top quality bricks carted long distances to a housing project where the community has had every capacity to learn the skill of cement brick making. 
There is considerable scope for improvement in the management of the Aboriginal housing program. Greater attention should be given to cost limits. Use of a range of proven house designs would reduce architectural costs and would establish limits in construction time, construction standards and unit expense. Aboriginal housing certainly has its problems, but it is also a story of great achievement. Many housing associations in cities, provincial towns and remote areas are highly competent and have successfully met the needs of their communities. The Apatulo Housing Industry, working out of Finke in the Northern Territory, is a fine example of Aboriginal enterprise. Many public servants, consultants, architects, tradesmen, missionaries and Aboriginal workers are making worthwhile contributions to the solution of Aboriginal housing problems. The Government's task is to get value for money, but it can in no way justify this threatened curtailment of expenditure or the slowing down of the Aboriginal housing program. It is time the Minister cleared up the doubts and anxieties on the level of spending for Aboriginal housing. The Hay Committee will not find the solution to the problems that exist and it should not be used as an alibi for Budget pruning. It is also time for the Minister to come clean with the Parliament and tell us if there is to be any action to relieve the critical level of unemployment among Aboriginal people. 
The Australian Council of Social Services, which represents 2000 voluntary organisations, says that Aboriginal unemployment has increased by 50 per cent since July last year. It says that it is difficult to know the real level because the activities of the Aboriginal employment section of the Commonwealth Employment Service continues to be curtailed. The Council says: 'We may never know the real extent of Aboriginal employment'. While the general level of unemployment in Australia is around 4.4 per cent the Council says that there are now about 10 000 Aboriginal people out of work and indeed some of the officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs say that more than 50 per cent of the Aboriginal work forcemay be some 20 000 people- is unemployed and the position is getting worse each day. The only hope for these people under this Government is to be stigmatised as dole bludgers, that is, if they can survive the tortuous process of filling in the forms which in many instances they probably do not understand and complying with the new stringent eligibility tests. This is a human disaster. It can also be regarded as as type of genocide in that the Government is depriving half the Aboriginal people in this country of the opportunity to take a job. Abandonment of the Regional Employment Development program has set the seal of doom on many Aboriginal employment opportunities. 
When does the Minister propose to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs concerning Aboriginal special works projects? That Committee called on the Government to make available the necessary funds to enable the scheme to be greatly expanded. Instead, it is being wound down. The Committee also recommended that the Department of Labor and Immigration, as it then was, should take over the scheme, that an Aboriginal employment section should be established in that Department, that the Public Service Board, Government departments and instrumentalities should actively recruit Aboriginals for employment and training and create as necessary special training positions. There are many Aboriginal people waiting for the employment opportunities which would follow implementation of that report which was made unanimously by the Standing Committee representing both sides of the political spectrum in this Parliament. 
Savage spending cuts in the Northern Territory, as the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  who is at the table, would know, can only aggravate the position for the Aboriginal people. The deferment or cancellation of Government construction contracts, rail and road projects- the sorts of projects that Aboriginal people would work on- and many other Government commitments can only produce wholesale destitution for Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people and wholesale resentment unless the Government acts and acts quickly. The situation is so serious with half the Aboriginal people out of work that I believe it calls for a ministerial statement even before the rising of the Parliament. The Minister should give urgent consideration to the possibility of allocating substantial funds for labour intensive programs to be administered by local government authorities. 
While dealing with the work of the parliamentary Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, let me also ask the Minister whether he intends to give effect to that Committee 's recommendations on the conditions of the Yirrkala people. Similarly, is any attention being given to the Committee's report and recommendations concerning Aboriginal health in Western Australia? Now that the Standing Committee is to study alcohol problems and the laws pertaining to alcohol, perhaps we can have some advice as to whether there is to be any implementation of the report of the inter-departmental committee on Aboriginal alcoholism. 
Another matter giving concern is the Government's vacillation about the role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee which was established by the Labor Administration and which comprises 41 elected representatives of Aboriginal electorates throughout Australia. The Minister would know that after direct negotiations with that Committee I had recommended approval of the NACC constitution and had undertaken to facilitate its effective role through the establishment of a secretariat, the institution of regional conferences and expansion of responsibility and decision making. All this is now in a state of suspense while the Hay Committee with its staff of six conducts its 4 months inquiry at an estimated cost of $53,000. Aboriginal people who have shown support for the role of the NACC by the high incidence of voluntary voting in the election of its members will relish its dismemberment or relegation no more than the Opposition does. 
When will the Minister take positive action about discriminatory State policies and legislation? I know there has been co-operation from most States but in Queensland the situation is appalling. The Queensland Aurukun Associates Agreement Act, the Aborigines Act and the Torres Strait Islanders Act reek of paternalism and discrimination and stand in breach of United Nations and International Labour Organisation conventions. They are also in breach of the Australian Government's Racial Discrimination Act and the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islands Discriminatory Laws Act of 1975. Those Acts vest in the Queensland Director of Aboriginal and Island Affairs the powers of a dictator. He has the power to enter private homes. He can completely order and regulate the lives of the people by determining who may enter or leave a reserve. The permits are subject to summary revocation. 
There are many things which need to be done. I remind the Minister of his obligation to institute far-reaching inquiries in respect of Aboriginal and police relations. The time for innocuous Press releases has ended. The Opposition will not stand idly by while the Aboriginal budget is slashed as it appears to be the intention of this Government so to do. We will represent the Aboriginal people in the hope that this Government will give the same kind of priority as was characterised by the administration of Aboriginal affairs during the period the Labor Government was in office. 
I am surprised that the honourable gentleman who preceded me, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  covered such a wide range when some of his colleagues were objecting to the very intelligent contribution made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  It is obvious that we cannot separate home savings grant issues from the wide range of issues which affect the capacity of people to acquire a home. The honourable gentleman who preceded me has demonstrated that and has shown his colleagues that they were wrong in taking points of order. I am glad that the Chair has sensibly upheld the views that have been put. We have a thimble and pea form of legislation before the House at present. In fact, anything to do with the 1964 home savings grant concept can be regarded as a thimble and pea bit of legislation. It was an election gimmick designed to trap a small number of people into voting for the Liberal Party. I think it came in concurrently with the science block legislation for secondary schools. 
This Government has always worked on percentages, and it cast a net to pick up one per cent or 2 per cent of young home owners and one per cent or 2 per cent of people who were interested in the tertiary and secondary education areas getting home science blocks. But the whole thrust of requirements in regard to housing and education were disregarded at that time for gimmicks. The same kind of philosphy is still being perpetuated. I frankly confess that the Opposition has never liked the home savings grant concept, for many reasons. Foremost among them is that it disregards priorities. This particular legislation is designed mainly as an election sop. It is especially designed to subsidise people who have saving capacity. Those subsidies are going to be given at the expense of people who have limited saving capacity or no saving capacity at all. 
I do not intend to talk for a long time unless I am provoked. I told the Government Whip that I do not make deals. He wants some other Liberal members to be given the opportunity to speak. 1 am prepared to be co-operative but I shall not be provoked about this matter. In my view there are a few points that are worth making. One is that this legislation has the capacity to deal a very destructive blow at the home building industry. Built into this legislation is a content which will cause many people to defer entering into a contract to build or buy a home until 1 January 1977. If you were to meet the Master Builders Association, or the Housing Industry Association or the building unions, all of which groups I see from time to time and asked them: 'What is the worst thing you can do for the housing industry? ' they would say: 'Offer people an incentive to build a house, but instead of making it retrospective or current, put off the time at which they can qualify'. At this time there are many people who are tempted to enter into a contract to buy or build a house, but they know they would be disadvantaged if they did so. So the Government is doing a great harm to the building industry. I can understand that, because the Government does not understand the industry. 
Let me just make another point. First of all, we have this brochure that has been produced and, I believe, has been introduced prematurely, since it applies to a scheme which has been foreshadowed and which is not the subject of any governmental legislation at this time. The requirements and the provisions are spelt out in this new brochure called  The New Home Savings Grant Scheme: How you can qualify,  dated April 1976. It has no legislative authority. It anticipates the approval of this Parliament, and in that sense it holds the Parliament in contempt. I wonder what the cost of the brochure is. I wonder how many thousands have been printed for distribution around the electorate. I wonder what the Auditor-General will say about this particular matter. 
The Bill before us is extremely elementary; it does not do very much at all. This Bill is not about the new provisions which have been foreshadowed and which will become the subject of home savings grant legislation. Heaven knows why the Government brought this in at this time. It simply provides that some rural people who have been unable to subdivide large properties will now be able to enter into contracts to build or buy a home and so qualify for a home savings grant, even if they are not holding a title to the land. For what it is worth that is a commendable thing. I suppose it is of infinitesimal consequence. My recollection is that when I was Minister for Housing and Construction I might have had about 3 letters on that matter. But if that is the Govenent's priority, all well and good. We do not quibble. It is probably a good thing to do but it is certainly not a priority thing to do. 
The other thing is to extend the provisions of the home savings grant scheme to people who are buying a housing commission home. 
-The honourable member for Mitchell says 'What is wrong with it?' Because the honourable member holds the seat of Mitchell in such a precarious way he likes to be a friend to all men and he wants to bestow these goodies on everybody. What is wrong with it? Nobody is saying anything is wrong with it but what we do say is that the people who are now going to benefit by this provision are already benefiting in many other ways and they are benefiting a way in which other people do not have the opportunity to benefit. For example, as a result of legislation which I introduced involving the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement these people are able to obtain homes with 4 per cent money. If I had not entered into that Agreement when I was the Minister, even in the face of opposition from the Liberal-Country Party Opposition and its contemporaries around the States, these people would not be able to get 4 per cent money. The money would be made available to the States at 1 per cent less than the bond rate. I am not sure of the level of the bond rate at the present time. It is probably in the vincinity of 9.6 per cent. So instead of paying 4 per cent interest in respect of Housing Commission loans the States would be paying 8.6 per cent. The rents people would be paying in respect of Housing Commission homes would be astronomical and of course the purchasing price of those homes would be well beyond the capacity of those people who are not allowed to earn more than 85 per cent of average weekly earnings in order to qualify for a grant. 
I simply say to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who has probably never heard of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement that this is a benefit which is being given to people who already have a great benefit. These people are getting money at 4 per cent. They are getting the benefit of land acquired at low prices years before the house is built. So they are extremely advantaged people. There is nothing wrong with this. Iff fact, it is virtuous to give to those people that kind of benefit, but in giving this benefit it is being given at the expense of a lot of other people who are also in need of assistancethe kind of assistance which the Labor Government proposed should be facilitated by the Australian housing corporation which has been thrown out, abandoned and destroyed by this Government. That was the machinery and the process by which we were going to exercise flexibility and assist people to overcome the deposit gap, subsidise interest rates and matters of that kind. We are not opposed to the idea that the Government should extend the benefits of the homes savings grant scheme to include those people who are buying Housing Commission homes. We are not opposed to this as long as the Government understands that it will not be able to spread the wealth of money to many other needy people in the community. 
Then there is a bit of pendanticism about credit union savings. People who save in this way will be eligible to attract the grant. Most of this form of saving is already allowed anyway. There is a little improvement in this area and we are not at variance with the Government on this. I think the final embellishment is that people can apply for the grant at any time rather than within the 12-month limit. So much for all that. It is not worth getting one's blood pressure up about that. 
There are just a couple of other points. One could make many points but I just want to say this. Despite what is said, this grant can be made available to people to finance a holiday home. In his second reading speech the Minister said that this could not happen, but if a person attracts a grant on the basis of savings under the Homes Savings Grant Act and it is the person's first home, he can say that he intends to live in it. If he decides not to live in it and he wants it to be a holiday home, that is in fact what it can be. No one is going to take a grant back from a person. So long as the taxpayers know that this legislation makes it possible to get a very substantial grant of $2,000, that is all right. That is what this whole Bill is about. If a person can save $40 a week he can get this Government grant of $2,000 after 3 years. If a person cannot save $40 a week he does not get the grant. The amount of the grant depends on how much a person can save. 
This legislation is going to help the rich. It is certainly money that is going to be taken away from the poor. All of us know- and the honourable members opposite will acknowledge thisthat when the August Budget is brought down the funds available for Housing Commissions are going to be slashed. Of course the Aboriginal housing funds which we talked about today are already being slashed. Funds for aged persons' housing are being slashed. The appropriation for the defence homes saving scheme is being slashed. This is being done because the Government wants to give money to people who have the capacity to save $40 a week. Well, we cannot get too excited about all that. Despite what the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr MacKellar)  said in the second reading speech, if a person attracts a grant for a home under the homes savings grant scheme and the home is for the purposes of rental or sale, provided the person has never had a home before he can go on to rent it or to sell it. Moreover, there is nothing at all to prevent a grant being made to young people or old people who have never saved anything in their lives. If a person wants to endow some of his children with some money and they put it in the bank they will be the lucky ones who will get $2,000- not the people who do not have rich parents or have non-affiuent parents such as I. If I wanted to squeeze my resources I could put in $6,000 in periodical contributions and then my kids could attract this grant. 
It is a very unusual scheme that exists at the present time. There is to be no limit on the value of the home. A person may be so wealthy that he can go on to build a castle if he likes. He can pick the most expensive home in Rose Bay and he will attract the grant. 
-I do not think I have said one thing that is not factual. A person may have the capacity to pay for a home. He might not be in need of any subsidy at all. A person may have the purchase price of a home, but if he can show he has saved that amount in the correct 6-monthly apportionments he is going to get $2,000 paid to him by this Government and he can do what he likes with that $2,000. He can buy bis wife a fur coat or a diamond ring, or he can send her off to the Riviera. That happens to be the situation. It is the situation. Nobody need laugh about this. They are the facts of life. That might be all right in a lovely affluent country but gentlemen- and we only have gentlemen in this place at the moment- let me tell you that your sense of priorities is distorted and warped. You have little regard for the needy people in this community- the homeless people. The housing budget is being slashed. People who receive no more than 85 per cent of average weekly earnings, people who are completely dependent on the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement and on the Housing Commissions, or those who are getting no more than 95 per cent of average earnings, have to go along to the terminating building societies to get a loan at 5% per cent. The Government is now going to make heavy inroads into all that. 
The Government is going to make this scheme possible- not the scheme before us but the one which is the subject of this illegal brochure, this Liberal propaganda which has been produced without legislative authorisation- by cutting into the mortgage interest tax deductibility scheme. The Government knows what we tried to do when we were in office. We said that there were 40 000 people benefiting under the homes savings grant scheme. Inflation came along. Honourable members opposite might say that the Labor Government caused it. It just happened. It happened all around the world. But the Labor Government which held office until 11 November last year said that in the face of inflation it was going to help people pay off their home loans and make it possible for them to get home loans by contributing to their repayment capacity by introducing a tax deductibility scheme on mortgage interest repayments. That was not going to involve just 40 000 people; it was going to involve over one million families in this country. 
Now the Government has decided that it will cut into that scheme which gives people benefits up to $10 a week, that it will take it away from those people who are not paying for their first homes within the first 5 years of their loans. Honourable members opposite have to live with that and they have to live with their own consciences. They have what I would call a bastardised scheme in terms of priorities. I think they are intent on helping the rich and the privileged and the affluent and I think they are completely unmerciful from the standpoint of the needy people who would have benefited from the Housing Corporation and the Labor Government's declared intention to help people to overcome the deposit gap and to help them with their repayments, to structure a tiered interest rate system in Australia. What they are virtually doing is abdicating from the field of housing and just helping the people who have not the capacity to help themselves. They are doing that at the expense of Joe Blow the boilermaker and the fitter and the nurse and the typist. They are helping their own and doing a great deal of damage to a lot of decent, ordinary taxpayers around Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it intended that the principles of tax indexation and the criteria applying to it in the area of Commonwealth jurisdiction will have the same application when taxation is imposed by States. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the details of Budget expenditure curtailments made through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since 1 1 November 1975. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Were all Aboriginal communities telegrammed by the present Attorney-General during the last election campaign with an unqualified assurance that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would not cut expenditure on Aboriginal affairs? Has this promise been broken by the reduction in Aboriginal expenditure of some $7m and are further cuts contemplated, possibly as high as 25 per cent? Will this aggravate the very serious unemployment position among Aboriginal people, which is running at 50 per cent, and otherwise set the clock back on Aboriginal advancement? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that HMAS  Kimbla  lost all long distance communications at sea on route to New Zealand on 17 March 1976. 
Was it necessary to send aircraft to locate and escort the ship back to Jervis Bay and then to cannibalise parts from other ships to get her back to sea after some days' delay. 
Will he give an assurance that adequate maintenance to naval vessels will not be sacrificed on the grounds of economy and that the lives of personnel and the safety and efficiency of the fleet will not be impaired. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What ate the factors responsible for delaying the concluding of a reciprocal agreement on social security with West Germany. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Which members of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee are without (a) an electorate office and ( b ) a secretary. 
Does the Committee have any secretariat; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has any financial assistance been offered by the Government towards the cost of maintenance, administration or purchase of the Aboriginal Embassy; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many marriage celebrants have been appointed in each State and Territory. 
How many marriages have been performed by each celebrant since appointment. 
What is the criteria used to determine suitability of appointees. 
What information is available regarding the level of fees charged by celebrants. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
I ) Docs the Government's $225m, 3-year program to subsidise aged persons accommodation represent a growth or decline in real terms over similar expenditure in the 1975-7(1 Budget. 
2 ) What i.s the amount of the growth or decline. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that subsidies for the building of aged persons' accommodation will be cut from $70m in the year 1975-76 to $45m in 1976-77. 
If so, how does the Government intend to eliminate the current backlog of applications from organisations seeking subsidies as announced by the Treasurer in his recent statement to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will legislation be introduced to amend the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act to reduce grants from a $4 for $ I basis to a $2 for $ I basis. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Why has no announcement been made by the Government of its intention to reduce grants under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act from a $4 for $1 basis to a $2 for $1 basis. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the Government-announced program to eliminate the current backlog of applications from organisations seeking subsidies for the building of aged persons' accommodation to be achieved by discouraging applications by reducing grants from a $4 for $ I basis to a $2 for $ I basis. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has he made any progress towards the appointment of a Royal Commission into Aboriginal/Police relations in the Northern Territory, plans for which his predecessor had brought to an advanced stage prior to the dismissal of the Whitlam Government. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
If it is the intention of the proposed Homes Savings Grunt Scheme to (a) encourage young couples to save lor a home and (b) provide a stimulus for the home-building industry, would these objectives to better served by utilising available funds for the purpose of providing young couples with interest free loans designed to bridge the deposit gap. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission been prevented from providing life assurance for journalists, cine cameramen and other employees engaged in unscheduled or hazardous flying on the grounds that provisions of the Air Accidents (Australian Government Liability) Act 1963-1973 are regarded as adequate. 
Did the Commission previously provide life assurance cover of $18,000 for employees who under an arrangement could take an additional cover of $20.000 at nominal rates: if so, what saving will result from terminating the Commission's cover. 
) Are ABC journalists and cameramen now declining to use all but scheduled flights on the ground that they arc at a disadvantage with employees covered by the Metropolitan Dailies Award which provides for an assurance cover of $75,000. 
Has the ABC news presentation service been adversely affected by this dispute and what processes arc to be invoked to resolve it. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Which of the recommendations contained in the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on  Aboriginal Unemployment Special Work Projects  have been implemented. 
In respect of the recommendations not implemented which (a) have been firmly rejected and (b) are under active consideration. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Which of the recommendations contained in the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on  Present Conditions of Yirrkala People  have been implemented. 
In respect of the recommendations not implemented which (a) have been firmly rejected and (b) are under active consideration. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has  Mr D.  W. McLeod proposed on behalf of the Aboriginal people in Western Australia that the Australian Government should purchase a 50 per cent equity in Mt Goldsworthy for the benefit of the Aboriginal people and that the purchase price be amortised over several years from profits. 
If this proposal has received consideration can he (a) give details of the possible purchase price and feasibility of the amortisation proposal, (b) indicate whether the proposed level of equity is in fact available for purchase and, if so, on what terms, (c) advise if any inquiries or negotiations have been instituted and the progress made, (d) say if the proposal is constitutional and (e) predict the benefits which could accrue to the Aboriginal people. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
In respect of each Commonwealth hostel closed since 1 1 November 1973, what (a) was the reason for closure, (b) is the capital value, (c) is the maximum number of people who could be accommodated and (d) is the current and intended function. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the (a) name, (b) location, (c) description and (d) value of projects approved under the RED Scheme. 
What is the total (a) number and (b) value of projects approved under the scheme. 
How many people were directly employed under the scheme. 
In respect of each uncompleted RED Scheme project what expenditure (a) has been incurred and (b) is required to facilitate completion. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the area and value of land at Yarralin on Victoria River Downs claimed by the Ngaringman People. 
What progress has been made towards meeting the claim and when can finality in the form of a lease be expected. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the number and percentage of employable Aboriginal people who are unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Which of the recommendations contained in the Report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on  Aboriginal Health in the South West of Western Australia  have been implemented. 
In respect of the recommendations not implemented which (a) have been firmly rejected and (b) are under active consideration. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth/State expenditure has been incurred or committed to preserve or rehabilitate the environment of (a) Botany Bay, (b) Sydney Harbour, (c) Parramatta, (d) Port Hacking, and (e) Georges River. 
-On 14 May 1975 the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  introduced the Australian Heritage Commission Bill which was designed to give legislative substance to the concept of the 
National Estate. Prior to this initiative historical buildings, sites and relics as well as parks, waterways, rain forests and areas of scientific interest were at great risk. In fact, much of our heritage has already been plundered by developers, by mining companies and by governments and the destructive effects of expanding tourism. Authorities and organisations concerned with preservation have lacked the financial resources, staff and general logistics effectively to fulfil thenobjectives. Without redressing these serious deficiencies Australians would continue to be deprived of the benefit of their sparse but important history and generations to come would be even more disadvantaged. 
Under that 1975 legislation the Commission was to be the effective vehicle to enhance and preserve the National Estate. It was to establish and maintain a register of the components of the Estate and broadly was to give effect to the recommendations of the committee of inquiry established under  Mr Justice  Hope in April 1973. That Committee, with its 8 members, set out to prepare an inventory of the National Estate. Each of these inventory items was to be evaluated in terms of its condition and the steps which would need to be taken to ensure its protection and enhancement. As a mark of its good faith and the seriousness of its resolution the Government, even before the Hope Committee had completed its work, approved grants of more than $2m to organisations and State and local governments. The main theme of the Hope Committee report which was presented in April 1974 can probably be conveyed in a brief extract from the report. 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. 
All previous priorities accepted at various levels of government and authority have been directed by a concept that uncontrolled development, economic growth and progress and the encouragement of private as against public interest in land use, use of waters, and indeed in every part of the National Estate, was paramount. 
An interim committee was appointed in September 1974 and that interim committee had a very large membership- some 17 members. They were representative of the areas of expertise involved with the consideration of the National Estate and its preservation. They included environmentalists and anthropologists. I think there were 7 Commonwealth departmental heads. There were scientists and architects and very distinguished public servants representative of all the States in Australia. 
I have heard talk tonight about federalism. This was a genuine effort in support of the concept of federalism because all the States were involved and these people worked to give effect to that far-reaching set of recommendations contained in the Hope report. The broad nature of the Committee structure was a tremendously significant factor. I cannot over-emphasise that tonight. In June 197S the Australian Heritage Commission Bill was presented to Parliament. The concept of appointing a permanent commission was approved by way of legislation in this Parliament. The  Chairman  was appointed and the other members- some 18- were to be appointed subsequently. These appointments had not been made when the coup occurred on 11 November last. Honourable members can gain the understanding that the Whitlam Government- the Labor Government- was well and truly on the way to giving effect to the Hope Committee recommendations. The Interim Committee certainly has done a very great job. I should like to mention its terms of reference. It was to advise the Ministers- that was the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Environment- on legislation to create an Australian heritage commission, on grants from the 1974 National Estate financial assistance programs and on any other matters related to National Estate issues. 
The objectives of that Interim Committee were along these lines: The identification and classification of sites; the legal protection of designated sites; the physical protection, including maintenance, restoration, management and preservation of sites; professional and technical training; community education and information; and support for community groups concerned with protection of the National Estate. The first 3 objectives which I have mentioned were given the highest priority by the Interim Committee. It is interesting to note that the Committee was active in advising on the distribution of grants under 3 major programs within the Government's National Estate allocations. The program of the Department of Urban and Regional Development in 1974-75 received $8m as a result of those recommmendations for historic buildings and sites, urban and open space and for National Trusts. The Department of the Environment's program on grants to conservation bodies, amounting to $448,000 was a recommendation of the Interim Committee as was the program of the Department of the Environment for acquisition of land for nature conservation. This involved expenditure of $9m. 
On 4 June 1976 the Australian Heritage Commission Amendment Bill 1976 was introduced. The main issue in this Bill involves a reduction in the size of the Commission. The Commission will be reduced to 6 members- a reduction of some 12 members. Of course, this will have the effect of excluding from the smaller body the States, certainly local governments and many other interest groups including environmentalists and people concerned about Aboriginal affairs, possibly the National Trust bodies and lots of other representatives who hitherto would have been on that bigger body. The Government's talk about federalism just does not carry any weight in this situation. The number of Permanent Heads of departments on the Commission are to be reduced in numbers as well. The sequel will be a lack of co-ordination between the Federal departments that have some kind of involvement in matters relating to the National Estate and the whole of the Heritage Commission's work will be affected. The Commission will be disadvantaged and so will the Parliament and the people. 
The Commission also is to lose the responsibility of advising on grants and financial assistance. It seems to me that the Government does not want anybody- no matter how representativeexposing the potential of work that should be done by the Heritage Commission. The Government just does not want to receive any recommendations because undoubtedly it will not be prepared to fund the recommendations of the Commission. The Government will find all this very embarrassing. So, we find that the new Commission is virtually limited to setting up a register of components of the National Estate. It is certainly an innocuous and relatively ineffective body compared with the body which was sponsored by my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  when he was Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
In respect of the current situation I should like to mention the funds which have been allocated. In 1975-76 the National Trusts were funded effectively so that in each State grants were made of $30,000. In addition, $125,000 was appropriated for the Territories under the National Estate's program. In 1976-77 the National Trust will receive the same amount as in the previous year and that is equal to a 1 3 per cent drop in real terms over the previous Budget allocation. The inflationary factor applied to the same amount gives that 13 per cent diminution in effective value. The Government has really cut into the ability of the National Trusts to serve this concept. Similarly, the National Estate program for the Territories has been adversely affected. Their allocation has been deleted altogether. The National Park and Wildlife Service has had its budget cut by an effective 78 per cent from $lm in 1975-76 to $240,000 in 1976-77. 
The next matter that causes me concern is the number of commissioners to operate in respect of the Heritage Commission. This Bill reduces the number of part-time commissioners from 19 to 7 and removes the requirement that up to 6 Permanent Heads of Government departments or authorities may be appointed to the Commission and states that no more than two may be so appointed. So much for co-operation between departments in order to protect our heritage which was so importantly stressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his second reading speech. As I mentioned earlier- I want to emphasise this point- the Opposition has moved that each State be represented on the Commission. But this, despite the new federalism policy of the Government, has been put into limbo. The real result is that, whereas the principal Act allowed for wide ranging representationa wide ranging Commission, if you likerepresenting not only the States but all the interested organisations such as the National Trust organisations, Aboriginal groups and environmental protection groups, this Act limits the range of expertise available to the Commission and increases their workload to such an extent that the program of saving the National Estate will be put back many years. 
I should now like to refer to the question of sacred sites because I believe that one of the most important parts of this Bill relates to the amendment of section 23 of the principal Act. The amendment in this Bill will effectively eliminate the protection of sacred Aboriginal sites from Federal jurisdiction. This amendment removes from the Commission the authority to place on the register Aboriginal sacred sites unless, firstly, they are already classified under State or Territory Acts or ordinances or, secondly, recommendations are accepted by the Minister from approved persons or organisations. When this legislation is read with the Nothern Territory land rights legislation that has been introduced into this Parliament, with the new proposal to hand back to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly the power to regulate sacred sites, and when the record of that Assembly is viewed by the Parliament, we will see why the Hope Committee of inquiry was so definite in recommending that this area be placed under Federal control. Commenting on the legislative protection afforded by the States, the Hope Committee stated that the State legislation allowed for the declaration of a temporary sacred site, effective immediately, and for 6 months after the negotiations were entered into. The report, in part, stated: 
Regrettably this is not the case in the Northern Territory where the Ordinance provides that acquisition with compensation must occur before a site may be designated or protected in any way. Thus a landholder or lessee, if he is so disposed, may destroy a site with impunity as no offence is committed until the site has been acquired and declared. 
The Northern Territory ordinance is clearly ineffective and needs to be brought with all urgency at least to the standard generally accepted in the States if not improved on. 
The words that I have been reading are not mine; they are the considered words of the Hope Committee of Inquiry. They contain a firm, unequivocal and high principled recommendation to this Government which has so little concern for Aboriginal people and their sacred sites that it has completely disregarded that very firm and forthright recommendation from this Committee of Inquiry. It is no wonder that the Aboriginal budget has been slashed by something like 33 per cent or 34 per cent when the Government can ignore such a recommendation relating to Australia's culture and the heritage of the indigenous people of this country. 
Under the Ordinance only 6 sites have been declared between 1955 and 1973. In addition to the transfer back to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly of power over Aboriginal sacred sites the Institute of Aboriginal Studies budget for 1976-77 has been severely reduced. This will have a wide ranging effect on Aboriginal programs, one of the most important being the training of Aboriginals as site recorders, site wardens and guardians of Aboriginal sacred sites. Another aspect of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies program has been the funding of specific programs administered by the State and Territory authorities and agencies into the recording of Aboriginal sacred sites. The effect of the Budget cuts will be to limit such studies and funding of studies to approximately 60 per cent of the 1975-76 Budget allocation. In relation to Aboriginal sacred sites, the Hope Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate recommended: 
that the Australian Government introduce legislation to give uniform protection on a national basis to Aboriginal sites of significance throughout Australia; 
that the provisions of the legislation be drawn into discussions with the State authorities who have the present responsibility for tile conservation and preservation of these sites, and 
that the Aboriginal people be afforded every opportunity for full and effective consultation throughout the process of drafting. 
It is clear that the recommendations of the Hope Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate with regard to sacred Aboriginal sites have been totally ignored by this Government. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  must accept responsibility for this. 
The functions of the Heritage Commission have been undermined. The Fraser Government has removed parts (b) and (c) of the principal Act relating to the functions of the Commission. That is, it has removed the powers to recommend expenditure on programs of preservation and conservation and has abolished the Commission's right to authorise grants for research through the States or through their own efforts. The effect of such a deletion may well be that the Heritage Commission will become yet another lame duck commission acting in name only, and that the Australian heritage, sought to be protected by many thousands of Australians and acted on by the former Labor Administration, will now take second place to the industrial, mining and pastoral development of Australia. 
The party of speculators is back in government. The well being of the ordinary people and the indigenous people of this country, and the preservation of our National Estate can take second place, it seems for the period- the limited period, I hope- that this Liberal-National Country Party Coalition will be in office. 
-Last night during the second reading debate I commented on this clause, as the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  would be aware. I again raise the matter in the hope that I will be able to get some response from the Minister. I refer to the very serious concern that I have about the proposed amendment to section 23 of the principal Act because it will have very serious deleterious effects on the preservation of Aboriginal sites. It is my view that the passing of this amendment would effectively eliminate the protection of sacred Aboriginal sites through federal jurisdiction. I do not think there is any question that that is the case and it appears to be the intention of the amendment. However, I would be very much enlightened if the Minister would let me know the reasons for this amendment being proposed. The amendment removes from the Commission the authority to place on the register Aboriginal sacred sites unless (a) they are already classified under State or Territory Acts or ordinances or (b) recommendations are accepted by the Minister from persons or organisations. Last night I talked more generally about this matter and referred to the fact that other legislation that is before the House, the Northern Territory land rights legislation, will certainly weaken the power of the Commonwealth over sacred sites because it is intended to hand back to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly a prerogative over this matter. 
The Hope Committee has been very forthright in its contention that the Northern Territory legislation and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly are quite ineffective in this matter. It said: 
The Northern Territory Ordinance is clearly ineffective and needs to be brought with all urgency at least to the standards generally accepted in the States, if not improved on. 
It goes on to mention the very bad performance of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and says that under the Ordinance only 6 Aboriginal sacred sites have been declared between 1955 and 1973. Then the Hope Committee went on to make very extensive remarks on the matter I have raised. It said in respect of these sites: that the Australian Government introduce legislation to give uniform protection on a national basis to Aboriginal sites of significance throughout Australia; that the provisions of the legislation be drawn in discussion with the State authorities who have the present responsibility for the conservation and presentation of these sites; and that the Aboriginal people be afforded every opportunity for full and effective consultation throughout the process of drafting. 
It seems to me that the clause before us now has entirely the opposite effect to what the Hope Committee has so forcibly put. The Minister shakes his head but I do not think he is shaking his head to indicate doubt of the authenticity of the quotations I have made from the Hope Committee report. The report is in the strongest possible terms and I suggest that the Minister might give me some effective reply. Let me quote a few other comments from the Hope Committee report. It also states: 
The time has come, we firmly believe, for the national Parliament to accept the whole of the duty laid on it by the people when, in 1967, they overwhelmingly voted to change the Constitution so that legislation for the benefit of the Aboriginal people could be passed. We have no doubt that this power would allow more comprehensive and effective legislation for the preservation and protection of Aboriginal sacred or other sites, whether of current significance or of archaeological importance. 
If the Minister was in any doubt about the Hope Committee's attitude before having heard that quotation he would be in no doubt about it now. In other words, what I am putting to the Minister is that under his ministerial direction we have an amendment before the Committee which is completely contrary to the expressions of the Hope Committee, the very antithesis of what that Committee has put. I believe that the matter needs some explanation. Some pages of the Hope Committee's report are devoted to this matter. The report draws attention to the great neglect that has occurred in respect of the preservation of Aboriginal sacred sites, historical sites, artefacts and the like. The report states: 
The record of declaration and protection of sites either by the State or Australian Governments has been poor. In 18 years the Australian Government has declared for protection very few of the known sites under its jurisdiction. The situation in the States is typified by this quotation:  'Hundreds of Aboriginal sites are being destroyed annually (in one State alone) by real estate developers both in urban and rural areas, often unknowingly and sometimes with indifference. ' 
The report goes on in respect of New South Wales to state: 
The magnitude of this task is shown by the fact that already in NSW alone 9650 Aboriginal sites of various kinds are known, including 200 sacred/ceremonial tribal sites and 5000 sites of engravings and paintings. The work in all States is far from complete and in States with large populations of tradition-orientated Aboriginals the number of significant sites should prove much greater. 
I simply refer the Minister to pages 166 to 17S which have a relationship to the question that I have raised. The essence of what I have put to the Minister is this: Why has he set out with such deliberate intent to reduce further, even to the point of complete ineffectiveness, the prerogative of the Australian Government to move effectively and positively into a matter which has a great deal to do with the preservation of Australia's heritage? I believe that this clause represents the height of irresponsibility so far as protection of Aboriginal sacred sites are concerned. I should be pleased if the Minister would seek to justify the proposals he has before the Committee. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Has the Government repudiated the previous Government's undertaking to exempt from tax the income which the thalidomide victims receive from trust funds invested for them? Is the effect of the new decision such that the Government will make a grant of $150,000 and reap more than $814,000 in tax over the next 12 years? Will the Treasurer reconsider this matter and take into account that the governments of Sweden and West Germany altered their tax laws to give such relief and that the British Government gave a grant to each child equivalent to the amount of tax to be paid? 
I want to discuss the Government's decision to tax the incomes which thalidomide children obtain from their investment trust funds. On 24 June this year,  Mr Justice  Cantor in the New South Wales Supreme Court directed that $2.25m be paid into the Thalidomide Foundation for approximately 25 children. Two days afterwards the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced the payment of a lump sum of $150 000 to the Thalidomide Foundation which will act as a trustee for thalidomide afflicted children in respect of whom settlements have been made. In his announcement the Treasurer admitted that the  Chairman  of the Foundation,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, had sought exemption from income tax for the income derived from investment of the sums paid in settlement. He described the Government's decision as a gesture of sympathy with the children and their parents and warned that the grant should not be seen as a precedent. The House now knows that the so-called gesture of sympathy is nothing more than a sleight of hand. In fact, there are many people in the community, including my own Illawarra thalidomide children's group, who regard it as a gigantic swindle. Of course this great human tragedy is a precedent. The Treasurer need not be inhibited about that in any way. It is regarded as a precedent in every country where children have been affected. The problem can be regarded as totally unique in terms of history and if it ever recurred it would, and should, receive every sympathy and consideration. 
My own view is that the Treasurer's decision cuts across the spirit of international goodwill which, apart from the Australian Government's attitude, has universally applied to the future well-being of these unfortunate victims. The Australian Government has now earned the unique distinction of being the first government in the world to tax the compensation paid to child victims of thalidomide. It has welshed on its obligations. It has actually gone to the trouble of repudiating an undertaking given by the previous Labor Government to exempt from tax the income earned from the thalidomide victims' trust fund. On 12 November 1974 the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  told Parliament that he had every sympathy with this case and undertook to receive a deputation from the trust and to refer the matter to his Department for urgent attention.  Mr Crean  had told the Parliament earlier, on 22 October 1974, that lump sum compensation payments were not liable to tax but regular weekly payments were. He added that it was a law inherited from the past but if it were necessary to make some change to it in order that these payments would be exempt from taxation if they were subject to taxation, he gave the assurance that the matter would be looked at. He hoped all sections would co-operate in the passage of any necessary legislation. 
Subsequently, draft legislation was prepared to enable the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  to amend the taxation laws to exempt income earned in 1974-75 and subsequently by the Foundation. Now this Government has put all that aside. Instead, Australian thalidomide victims will have to pay up to 30 per cent tax on the compensation awarded to them. In total, the Thalidomide Foundation is expected to pay $8 14,000 in tax over the next 12 years. This estimate is based on a settlement figure of $2. 7m made in respect of 34 children in total at an average tax for each child of 25.14 per cent. In cases involving limbless children, where the effects of thalidomide were more severe, the tax will rise to as high as 3 1 per cent on 1975-76 taxation figures. 
This scandalous decision to subject the settlement income to tax comes as a serious setback for the families of these children, who for some 15 years have suffered anxiety and uncertainty in the protracted negotiations and legal actions aimed at securing compensation. In a nutshell, the Treasurer's decision means that the Government makes a grant of $150,000 but reaps $814,000 in tax over the next 12 years from the thalidomide victims. Even the $150,000 grant will be subject to tax, and the added income which investment of this amount generates will help to bring each of the beneficiaries on to an even higher tax scale. The Treasurer should know the level of settlement was determined in consideration of its expected immunity from taxation. In other words, these children, who in many instances are grotesquely deformed and unable to earn a living, would have sought and won even greater awards if this change of policy could have been anticipated. 
I noted in an article in the  Australian  newspaper of 6 July some comments attributed to the  Chairman  of the Foundation,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson. The article stated that  Sir Kenneth  Anderson was delighted with the Government grant of $150,000 made in lieu of granting an earlier plea to make compensation settlements to the beneficiaries tax free. I very much doubt that that is the situation. I feel that  Sir Kenneth  Anderson was misrepresented. I know that he had put strongly, on behalf of the affected families and children, the case for total tax exemption. I also know that many of the families with whom the group which operates out of my electorate has an association regard the new attitude, as expressed by the Treasurer recently, as being totally unacceptable. I am very pleased to see the strong, forthright and unequivocal attitude taken by various sections of the media in respect of this matter. I noted the attitude of the  Age  newspaper, as expressed in its editorial on 7 July this year. It said: 
We find the Federal Government's decision to impose tax on income from the trust fund of Australia 's thalidomide victims a glaring example of insensitivity. It thrusts outrage upon the victims of a human tragedy that even in the best of circumstances can never have a truly happy ending . . . It surrenders compassion to bureaucratic rigidity . . . The future security of Australia's thalidomide children is not an issue that should vary with the political complexion of the Government. 
It also states: 
Further, it must be pointed out that the parents have never sought a blanket exemption from tax; only until each victim is 25 ... the Government in fairness should have made clear its intention to tax much earlier. This undoubtedly would have led to revised claims in those cases which only recently have been settled. 
As I said, there are many other editorials, particularly from the  Age  and the  Australian,  along these lines. The comments made by the Treasurer yesterday are unsatisfactory, although he indicated that he would re-examine the question. He said: 
What the Government is intent on doing is to provide the best benefit to the victims of the drug thalidomide but at the same time not to create problems in relation to other crippled and handicapped children of whom there are a large number throughout the country. 
As I have said, the fact is that this is a unique situation calling for unique treatment. I believe that there is no substitute for the unequivocal commitment made by the Labor Government to exempt totally from taxation payments made in respect of these children. 

 -The Deputy Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has been at pains to justify the strategy of this Budget, which is based on the premise that only through a reduction in inflation can the economy recover. Such a strategy is not uncommon for LiberalNational Country Party governments which rely for success on an increase in unemployment and a subsequent increase in hardship for hundreds of thousands of Australian families. To say, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on 26 August, that the Budget combined economic responsibility and social reform is to distort the meaning of responsibility and reform. To continue to say, as the Prime Minister did, that no aspect of the Budget demonstrates the Government's concern for people more than the attack on inflation is to delude the supporters of the Government and the Australian people. If the Government was concerned for people it would not have introduced a Budget that weighs so heavily against employment and against the disadvantaged and affects so adversely the wellbeing of thousands of Australians. 
This Budget not only intends to use unemployment to head off inflation but also seeks to use unemployment to reduce living standards through a tax on wage indexation and calls for a reduction in real wages. In the same vein, the Budget seeks to reduce the amount of disposable income available to workers in this country through increased Medibank charges and through its restructuring of the tax scales in order to pander further to the wealthier spectrum of our corporate sector- the mining industry, which the Deputy Prime Minister mentioned, and those Pitt Street farmers, Collins Street farmers and Treasury bench farmers who have gained so much from this Government's concern for the people. 
The economic madness of concentrating solely on inflation has been recognised by economic commentators overseas and by others throughout this country. Yet honourable members opposite support this strategy while the country suffers from an inability to express concern. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  exhort the nation to spend, yet in May and again last month the Government ignored two of the three components of aggregate demand so necessary to stimulate the economy. In the Budget introduced 12 months ago by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  the Labor Government recognised the need to stimulate the private sector as well as to encourage consumer confidence through maintenance of the public sector involvement. The FraserLynch strategy ignores these 2 parallel components of demand and lavishes aid and affection on the one sector of aggregate demand outside their immediate control. 
The 1975 Budget recognised the need to maintain government spending to provide the Australian community with the basic amenities of a civilised and industrialised society- adequate health and educational facilities, sewerage and housing opportunities. It also recognised the national government's responsibilities on behalf of the Australian people to support the disadvantaged within our society, the aged, infirm, the women, Aborigines, the poor and the dispossessed. This Budget ignores these responsibilities and hides behind the Prime Minister's rhetoric of 'hard times and no soft options' while presiding over and orchestrating the hardest times for those least able to fight back. 
Despite the Government's attempt to hide the fact through the abolition of seasonally adjusted figures, unemployment now stands at 5.2 per cent of the work force, or 327 000. As a direct result of the Budget this figure will almost certainly rise to over 400 000 when this year's school leavers, many of whom have stayed at school only because of lack of job opportunities, join the work force in the December-February period. More daunting, however, than the general extent of unemployment is the concentration of unemployment amongst, and lack of training available to, young Australians. While the under-20-year-old age group comprises only 12 per cent of the labour force, more than 40 per cent of the total number of unemployed are in this age group. This figure is more than 4 times the rate among those aged 20 years or over. 
In the non-metropolitan area of New South Wales, for example, the ratio of registered unemployed to job vacancies is over 600 to one. Further, 25 per cent of these under-20-year-old unemployed youths have been unemployed for between 13 weeks and 26 weeks, while another 20 per cent have been unemployed for more than 6 months. The limited opportunities for learning and employment available to the job-seeking youth has a two-fold effect. It has an effect, firstly on their outlook and aspirations for the future and, secondly, on the future development and productivity of the economy. The fall-off in apprenticeship indentures is another alarming aspect of the unemployment of Australia's youth. From the peak of 42 000 in 1973-74 the intake this year is some 10 000 less; fully 9 per cent less than last year and 25 per cent less than the peak 3 years ago. 
In many trades there are up to 100 young people seeking apprenticeships for every vacancy registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. In this regard the Commonwealth Public Service staff ceilings have had a deleterious effect, with the number of apprentices dropping by 18 per cent on last year's figure which represents a decrease of the same order from the previous peak in 1973-74. In the face of this the Government had decided to slash unemployment benefits by $33m, which obviously will involve harder work tests. The younger unemployed, the under- 1 8-years-of-age group, to whom I was referring, are not being provided with any increased benefits at all. If Australia is to have a viable economic future we must not allow the youth of today who represent tomorrow's craftsmen and managers to be thrown on to the industrial scrapheap. If Australia is to maintain its secondary and tertiary industries we must begin now to provide the training and experience so vital to these industries. The structural imperfections of Australian industry can be ovecome with planning and foresight. But without a trained and self-reliant work force Australia will fall quickly behind in industrial productivity. 
The parlous state of apprenticeships and job training is perhaps no better illustrated than in the building and construction industry. This industry employs directly some 385 000 people or 8 to 10 per cent of the total Australian work force and in support or related industries perhaps half as many again. With regard to apprenticeships, the most recent figures available indicate that in New South Wales alone- I accept that the extent of the crisis in this industry varies from State to State with New South Wales being accepted by all, including the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  as the worst affected- over 1650 apprentices from this industry are now on the dole. That comes on top of a 42 per cent decrease in the number of indentures granted last financial year. In a joint submission to the Government earlier this year industry spokesmen said: 
The shortage of skilled tradesmen will hamper a recovery of the industry even after an economic recovery and/or change of policy recognises the need to inject investment into the building industry on a national basis. 
The Government has so far failed to identify that elusive injection of investment. 
Moving on to the building and construction industry as a whole, it should be recognised that it represents one of the most diversified employment areas within the economy. Apart from those directly employed on site- carpenters, joiners, labourers and so on- many consultants are utilised, including architects, civil, structural, mechanical, electrical and hydraulic engineers, quantity surveyors, town planners, management advisers and the like, acoustic and landscape specialists and surveyors. Also involved are those who service the industry, suppliers, manufacturers, valuation experts and legal advisers. In January of this year it was estimated that in the professional areas alone over 40 per cent of the architects, 30 per cent of the quantity surveyors and 15 per cent of the consultant engineers would be retrenched. Those figures are indicative of other professional and semi-professional areas. I again refer to the joint submission that was made to the Government earlier this year. It reads: 
The problems of the industry must receive the immediate attention of government, which must have measures which will at least maintain a level of activity to enable the survival of the industry in a viable form. This cannot be achieved by dependence on the revival of the private sector, but must rely on public sector work to fill the gap at a greater level of activity than is at present taking place to prevent disastrous unemployment, the failure of companies and the dispersal of skilled workers. 
I am not talking on behalf of just the Building Workers Industrial Union or the Builders Labourers Federation. I am also talking on behalf of the consortium of building industries representing the Master Builders Association, the Housing Industry Association, the surveyors institute, the architects and the like. Yet no heed has been shown to that advocacy. Again I remind honourable members that this plea was directed to the Government in January of this year after the cancellation or deferment of a large number of contracts and projects previously entered into. Well the building industry may ask how the mining sector, which is largely foreign owned and which continues to accumulate and repatriate large profits, receives such generous government assistance while the Australian owned and faltering building industry does not receive any consideration. Perhaps the 
Government plans to abandon the building industry. It has already abandoned the shipbuilding industry. Why not abandon the building industry as well? 
Turning to the most recent figures on building approvals which were released only last week, we find that while the industry was almost holding its own with the previous quarter the Government 's contribution was almost negligible. That is hardly an indicator of confidence in the future. The Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has itself recognised that it is unlikely that the rise in private commencements in the June quarter will be maintained on a national level. Let me emphasise the deleterious state of the building industry for the benefit of those honourable members opposite who seem to have some doubts. I have just received some figures from the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board in Sydney. I am talking especially about the situation in New South Wales. The Board has advised that the value of buildings completed within its area up to June 1976 was only $598.7m. I invite honourable members to compare that figure with the all time high that was reached in 1974-75 of $876m. There has been a massive fall off of over $277m. 
Faced with a similar situation in 1974 the Labor Government, rather than let the industry and the workers employed in it go to the wall, introduced the Banks (Housing Loans) Bill, which sought to advance $150m in additional housing funds. That led to a considerable revitalisation of the building industry throughout the country. Of course, in addition to that, the Australian Labor Government also successfully encouraged the Reserve Bank to bring about a reduction from 60/40 to 50/50 in the proportion of assets that savings banks are required to hold in prescribed forms of investment. By that process several hundred million dollars were released for housing loans which otherwise would not have been available. In addition, of course, there were great increases in the allocations to the States for public housing programs, aged persons homes, defence service homes and the Australian Housing Corporation. But this Government, in the face of all the overtures that have been made and in the face of all the devastating statistics showing the decline of the building industry and the deteriorating employment opportunities for established tradesmen and up-and-coming young tradesmen, has been completely ineffective and insensitive. 
A further matter to be taken into consideration is the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the housing industry, which was initiated by the Labor Government. That report, which was tabled 2 weeks ago, indicates that the present capacity and expectation of the industry are well below what it was some years ago and is well short of the desirable and- I think that this word was in fact used- essential level. The figures are in the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry for 1976-77 to 1978-79 for all to see. 
-I established it and I am proud that I did. As the then Opposition cooperated with me in its establishment, I sincerely hope that some attention will be given to its report and to its projections. That report gives the desirable dwelling completion level for 1976-77 as 148 700. It also points out that a recommended goal is 136 000. The forecast actual level is 131 000. The report contains a mass of figures. The New South Wales figures, of course, are quite startling. The desirable level in New South Wales in terms of dwelling completions for the year 1976-77 is 46 800. The forecast actual level in terms of this Government's ineptitude, ineffectiveness and lack of concern about the building industry is 32 000-not 46 800. One can obtain from the report the total housing scene and the total construction scene. 
I suppose that the major casualty in the Budget that is now being debated is the housing and urban affairs area. One can summarise the situation in a few lines. Growth centre expenditure has been reduced from $60m to $19m. Does this Government have any concern about where the young people of this country are going to live in the future? Does it have any concern about where the young people of this country are going to work in the future? The expenditure on area improvement programs has been cut from $17.5m to $0.5m. The expenditure on land commissions is down from $48m to $15m. The expenditure on the national sewerage program has been cut from $ 1 13m to $50m. Local government assistance has dropped from $2 74m to $195m, and capital works expenditure has been slashed by $127m. We have heard the  Deputy  Prime Minister with his obsession about inflation. It is the contention of the Opposition that there should be an obsession about the wellbeing, the progress and the advancement of Australia. The doctrinaire policies espoused by the  Deputy  Prime Minister are causing calamity and crisis that can only increase and which are already reaching proportions which will cause very great suffering among the Australian people. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
If it is the intention of the proposed Home Savings Grant Scheme (a) to encourage young couples to save for a home and (b) to provide a stimulus for the home-building industry, would these objectives be better served by utilising available funds for the purpose of providing young couples with interest free grants designed to bridge the deposit gap. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development been drawn to the claim by the Executive Director of the Master Builders Association, which is supported by the building unions and associated industries, that only by committing an extra $350m can the Australian and New South Wales Governments save the New South Wales building industry from total bankruptcy? Will the Government react to this crisis situation in any positive manner or will it continue its policy of abandonment of this key industry which has already reached a peak of unemployment? 
-Mr Acting SpeakerMotion (by  Mr Howard)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question put. 
-In no area more than Aboriginal affairs has this Government demonstrated to the Australian people the sheer hypocrisy of its election promises. On 28 November last year the now infamous 'vote Liberal' telegram went out from the then spokesman on Aboriginal affairs, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr 
Ellicott), who is now no less than the AttorneyGeneral of this Government. In that telegram, he promised categorically: 
No cuts in Aboriginal Affairs budget or in Aboriginal affairs programs. 
He stated specifically that there would be no cuts for housing, education, employment, health and legal aid. The breach of each and every one of these promises is now history. Electors who expected honesty and integrity have received in their place blatant dishonesty and betrayal. This Government's shameful exploitation of Aboriginal unemployment and housing initiatives, its callous indifference to Aboriginal legal aid, nutrition programs and aid to Aboriginal health centres is an affront to the integrity of the Australian people. Yet again, promises made openly, and in this case at massive expense to the taxpayer, have been broken with careless indifference. I believe that it is important for me to place the telegram of 26 November 1975 to which I have referred in its proper context and to read it in the form in which it was sent to thousands of Aboriginal organisations and communities all round Australia. It states: 

 Mr Bob Ellicott Liberal and Country Party spokesman for Aboriginal affairs said today there would be no cuts in Aboriginal affairs budget or in Aboriginal affairs programs. Funds will continue to be made available for housing, education, employment, health, legal aid etc. Pensions payable to Aboriginal people will not be cut and will rise automatically twice a year with cost of living increases. All available funds will be shared among Aboriginal communities on a fair and impartial basis. A Liberal National Country Party Government will support Aboriginal organisations such as the Aboriginal medical and legal services. It will hold an urgent inquiry into the role of the NACC to determine whether it can be given a more important role in Aboriginal affairs. Efforts will be made to increase the number of Aboriginal people involved in Aboriginal affairs. Employment and training schemes will be urgently investigated with aim of increasing job opportunities for Aborigines throughout Australia. Spread the word that there is absolutely no truth in Labor Party rumours about cuts in Aboriginal affairs budget. Under a Liberal Country Party Government Aborigines will be better not worse off". Urge to vote Aborigines Liberal Country Party on December 13th. Full policy is following by mail. 
Best wishes BOB ELLICOTT 
The Lynch Budget returns expenditure on Aboriginal Affairs to the level of pre- 1 972 days. There has been an overall cut of 30 per cent in real terms in Aboriginal expenditure. The majority of these cuts have been in the areas of housing, health and education, the 3 areas most important to the self-respect and self-determination of any person. What does the Lynch Budget really mean? Let me list the cuts in real terms which have been made in the appropriations for various Aboriginal programs: Support for Aboriginal sporting bodies has been reduced by 100 per cent; support for Aboriginal publications has been reduced by 100 per cent; support for Aboriginal land councils has been reduced by 13 per cent; support for enterprises- the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account- has been reduced by 77 per cent; support for town management and public utilities has been reduced by 36 per cent; support for recreational and cultural activities has been reduced by 37 per cent; payments to and for the States have been reduced by 37 per cent; Aboriginal study grants have been reduced by 22.6 per cent; funding for Aboriginal education in the Northern Territory has been reduced by 34.7 per cent; funds through the Department of Health have been reduced by 18.25 per cent; administrative expenses have been reduced by 13 per cent; funds for Aboriginal conferences have been reduced by 2 1 per cent; funds for investigations and research have been reduced by 30 per cent; support for Aborigines at government settlements has been reduced by 14 per cent; assistance to Aboriginal missions has been reduced by 12 per cent; support for ecological projects has been reduced by 12 per cent; support for Aboriginal hostels has been reduced by 10 per cent; support for Aboriginal enterprises has been reduced by 10 per cent; and support for Aboriginal housing through the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account has been reduced by 17 per cent. The Attorney-General's promises stand in tatters and the AttorneyGeneral himself stands discredited, as does the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. 
Let me look just briefly at the question of unemployment, another area in which the present Attorney-General who was then the Opposition spokesman on Aboriginal affairs promised to increase jobs for Aboriginal people, the situation has gone from bad to deplorable. Despite submissions from the Australian Council of Social Services, the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and other advisory bodies and contrary to the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, the Budget appropriations in areas which involve Aboriginal employment, Aboriginal enterprises and special projects have been eliminated. Despite the pleas of these organisations and the obvious worsening of Aboriginal unemployment, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have had to decrease the number of field officers available to cover this vital area. This, too, is in direct contradiction of the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. 
Official figures show that at the end of July, 9667 Aboriginal people were registered for employment. Of these, 341 were school leavers who had been unemployed since December last year and 2284 were classified as 'other young people '. This amounts to an official recognition that 30 per cent of the Aboriginal work force is unemployed. The Australian Council of Social Services, which represents 2000 voluntary organisations, has speculated that Aboriginal unemployment has increased by 50 per cent since July. We may never know the real extent of Aboriginal unemployment. While the general level of unemployment in Australia is around 5 per cent the Government says that about 10 000 Aboriginal people are now out of work. Some of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs spokesmen have speculated that 50 per cent of the Aboriginal work force is now unemployed. So these figures do not tell the real story about the cut back in the allocation for Aboriginal affairs. 
Even the Government's own inquiry, which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has used selectively to justify his apparent disregard for Aboriginal welfare has made comments on this matter. I quote from the inquiry's findings: 
Given the exceptionally high rate of Aboriginal unemployment and poor economic prospects in many areas where Aboriginals live, urgent attention should be given to redirecting special projects assistance rather than withdrawing it. 
The inquiry supported the attempts of the Labor Government to provide employment and its efforts to make Aboriginal projects useful not only through the facilities provided, but also through jobs made available and the training and expertise involved. 
The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs made very specific recommendations on this particular matter. I quote just one or two of the Committee's recommendations, the first of which reads: 
The Special Work Projects Scheme be greatly expanded and that the Australian Government make the necessary funds available. 
The second recommendation was: 
Negotiations between the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and Labor and Immigration commence immediately on the transfer of responsibility for the Special Work Projects Scheme to the Department of Labor and Immigration. 
It went on to recommend that Aboriginal people fill certain positions which have been designated. This Government has no regard for Aboriginal employment except as a political tool. We had the spectacle only 2 weeks ago of the Prime Minister misusing statistics to imply that this Government was looking to see that Budget cuts did not affect Aboriginal employment. Yet his Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in a letter to Aboriginal communities addressed 'Dear Friend' has stated that special arrangements have been made to ensure that employment is maintained. But no arrangements have been announced, no projects have been commenced and no additional funds have been committed. Again, the Aboriginal people are to wait the outcome of yet another thorough review. 
In the area of Aboriginal health there have been drastic cuts to the extent of 18.25 per cent. The fallacy of the cutback in the allocation for Aboriginal health services has been highlighted by the Government's own committee of inquiry, the Hay committee, which stated: . . . without State supplementation the provision of what might be termed normal health opportunities for Aboriginals as well as special facilities to enable them to start catching up with the rest of the community would be at risk. 
The fact is that the allocation for expenditure on Aboriginal health services in 1975-76 was $2 1.48m. The appropriation for the current financial year is $20. 43m- a decrease of $ 1.043m in money terms, and something like 1 5 per cent in actual terms having regard for inflation. Grants to the States have been cut from $14m last year to $ 13.2m this year. Grants in terms of aid to Aboriginal organisations to operate health services, principally Aboriginal health centres in Townsville, Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Bairnsdale, Shepparton, Perth and Alice Springs, have actually increased in money terms by $850,000. Nevertheless, in terms of inflation, they have been cut. Grants for Aboriginal health services in the Northern Territory have been reduced from $5. 5m to $4.5m in real terms- a cut of 15 per cent. So we are able to look right through the scene as exposed by the recent Standing Committee report to see the disastrous events which are occurring in the Aboriginal health field. The Aboriginal infant mortality rate, for example, in the Northern Territory in 1975 was in the ratio of 50 to 1000 as compared with 16.1 to 1000 in a comparable European situation. I commend the reading of the Committee's report. It draws attention to health problems associated with climatic conditions, the leprosy situation which it says is still serious, eye diseases which it says are getting too little attention, the failure to deal with the problems of diet and nutrition and the long-term effects which will accrue, alarming ear disorders, ear abnormalities which occur at the rate of 60.4 per cent compared with 1 6 per cent in a comparable community, and venereal diseases such as syphilis and gonorrhoea which have increased considerably in the last 2 years. The report refers to the incidence of tuberculosis in these terms: 
Aboriginal people suffer excessively from a high incidence of tuberculosis. One quarter of the population of Aboriginal people incur an incidence which is 3 times higher than the white population. 
The Committee makes similar comment about dental care, the lack of vitamin C, the incidence of gastro-enteritis, hook worm, the problems of alcohol, family planning and mental health. In the face of all that, this Government has cut expenditure on Aboriginal health services. It has done likewise in regard to the Aboriginal legal aid service where considerable cuts have occurred. All the Aboriginal legal organisations are in debt. Of course, in every area the Government has broken its promise to the Aboriginal people. 
I was grappling with the very deep implications of this Bill when I heard the remarks of the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates).  I find it very difficult to comprehend the proposition that he put before the Committee. He said that people should be paying for health services. He seems to take the attitude that whereas Australian people generally accept the proposition that many things that are important to individuals and to the nation at large should be financed on a capacity to pay principle- I am referring to such matters as social welfare benefits, child endowment, widow pensions, age pensions, even the defence of the country and many others that come under the administration of State governmentswhen it comes to health we ought to depart from that principle and revert to a philosophy whereby people have to look after themselves and whereby a levy ought to be paid. 
-That is accommodated to some degree in respect of needy people under State housing programs and the like. The honourable gentleman might like to contend on some other occasion, as it is inappropriate to do so now, that we should abandon the support for low income people in housing and the like. There is no doubt that in respect of many important services that sustain the Australian people individually and in a corporate way we acknowledge the principle that people should pay according to their capacity to pay. I am not making an assertion; I am just relating a fact of life which is the subject of a great range of legislation which the House deals with from time to time.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you will be gratified to hear me say that what we are dealing with now is a very simple proposition, related to clause 4 of the Bill, whereby the shadow Minister for Health, the honourable member for Maribyrnong,  Dr Cass,  is trying to safeguard the interests of some hundreds of thousands of pensioners around Australia, especially pensioners who are receiving health benefits. He is trying to ensure that during the entire time that a person is entitled to pensioner health benefits he will be safeguarded. That is all that is being put before the Committee at the present time. I wonder why there is all this concern. The fact of the matter is that around Australia at the present time and in the Parliament there is enormous consternation as to what people should do and foremost among the ones who are concerned are pensioners. The pensioners who get into the most difficult area are the ones who are affected by this amendment, the ones who receive health benefits but who do not know what their position is now and what their position might be in the future. There is nothing in the legislation before the Parliament which would safeguard the interests of those pensioners, those people who under a means test receive the benefits of health concessions. The proposal put by the honourable member for Maribyrnong would do this. 
-I have been asked a question and I think I should answer it frankly and honestly. What the Labor Party proposed to do when Medibank was first introduced was to impose a tax levy of 1 .35 per cent. 
-You have asked me one question. I will deal with one question at a time. That was our proposition. 
-When we were in office, the honourable member who interjected might recall that the Senate rejected the proposals of the Labor Party and proposed that Medibank or health care should be financed from the proceeds of uniform taxation. 
-Well, if you like, from consolidated revenue. We accept the proposition that your Party forced upon us by utilising that brutal majority your Party had at that time. If you want to think about this philosophically, you ought to go back to the very simple proposition that there is a total health burden in Australia, manifested in money terms. It is in respect of such things as private hospital care, public hospital care, and repatriation care. There is an aggregation of all those costs. What we have been talking about for several days in this place is how those costs should be met. The Labor Party's proposition is terribly fundamental. It is to this effect, to ensure that every Australian is guaranteed adequate health care, the availability of a doctor who is well trained and access to a regional hospital which is well equipped and in respect of which there is a complex of medical expertise. Surely we all acknowledge that idea. It does not matter how you go about it or what appendages there are. Whether it is a private hospital, a nursing home or whatever, the fact is that there is a total cost and we ought to be looking at the idea of how we can most equitably contribute to that and do it in such a way as to ensure the well-being of Australians. Can honourable members opposite think of a more simple proposition than paying from the proceeds of taxation so that the rich pay more than the poor as is the case in respect of widows' pensions, child endowment, defence, education and all these other services for which we legislate from time to time? That is all the Labor Party is putting. 
In the amendment before the Committee we seek to safeguard the interests of the pensioners. I gather from all the wide-ranging talk that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William 
McMahon) went on with, that he, in the end, like other Government supporters will vote against the proposition put by the honourable member for Maribyrnong which seeks to safeguard the interest of pensioners. In fact what the Government has done in every element of the propositions that it has put in respect of the 4 health Bills has been to vote against the fundamental idea that everybody should be looked after and their interests safeguarded simply by the taxpayers paying for them in terms of equitable payments. Why do Government supporters abandon that concept? What do they have against the idea that every human being in Australia should be able to go into a hospital and be looked after and that they should be paid for? Is that abhorrent to them? 
-I will be pleased to cooperate in that regard. I commend the honourable member for Maribyrnong who put this proposition so explicitly and clearly before the Committee. I ask honourable members opposite whether they are prepared now to vote for the proposition contained in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong in respect of pensioners who have qualified in terms of the means test, not the means test that applies to pensions but the one that applies for people to qualify for the pensioner medical service and all the fringe services? Those pensioners should be put beyond doubt in respect of this matter. That is what the proposition is about. At present there is ambiguity on that question. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners are affected and the Labor Party wants to safeguard their interests and put them out of the state of anxiety that they are in at the present time. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in the Electoral Division of Hughes were registered as unemployed as at July 1976. 
What proportion of these persons were (a) under 2 1 years of age (b) 2 1 to 45 years of age and (c) over 45 years of age. 
What proportion were (a) males and (b) females. 
How many, and what proportion, of these persons stated their work category as associated with the (a) building and construction industry and (b ) manufacturing industry. 
How many of these persons were previously engaged in apprenticeships or traineeships. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. 
-The Fraser Government is notorious for its many broken promises affecting the lives and welfare of the Australian people. Now it is repudiating solemn and legal undertakings given by the last Australian Government to 3 State governments. Just as it tore up the rules and rode roughshod over the Constitution to gain office, this discredited coalition is now thumbing its nose at the time-honoured tradition of integrity which the Commonwealth has always exercised in its relations with the States. 
The growth centres of Albury-Wodonga, Macarthur, Bathurst-Orange and Monarto are major Budget casualties and seem destined to become the ghost centres of the 1980s and beyond. Launched with enthusiasm by a Federal Labor Government in 1974 with the full cooperation and support of the States concernedthe then Liberal-governed States of Victoria and New South Wales- the growth centre program attracted a Budget allocation in 1974-75 of $64.7m. In 1975-76, the allocation was increased to $72. lm. Now the Budget has been slashed from an actual expenditure level of $72.1 m last year to $33m, a drop of $39.1m. That in itself, in my view, demonstrates the insincerity of the present Government's concern with growth centres. Albury-Wodonga gets only $15m; Bathurst-Orange and Macarthur, which is the development in the western suburbs of Sydney, receive a paltry $2m each, which is barely enought to meet essential, unavoidable legal commitments. 
There can be no doubt about the sincerity of the 3 governments which entered into the Albury-Wodonga agreement. Those 3 governments were consulted about land acquisition. The critical comments made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  cannot be directed just at the former Federal Labor Government; he is obviously taking to task State governments of his own political persuasions which acquiesced in the land acquisition program at AlburyWodonga which he has so trenchantly attacked and criticised. The only government to be uncertain and undecided, the only government to violate and to repudiate is the Fraser Government. Indecision in this matter is sheer destruction; not to decide is to decide, for only a short period of financial malnutrition will seal the fate of Albury-Wodonga for all time and the growth centre concept for Albury-Wodonga and other parts of Australia for years and years to come. 
The Minister has to answer this question: Does the agreement still exist? If it does, does he acknowledge that it cannot be ignored and conveniently put aside? He also has to indicate whether he is prepared to table the report which is the product of the review that has been under way so that there can be proper public dialogue about this matter. It cannot be pushed into a closet because there are many people affected by it, and I will tell him about that in a moment. 
The Mayor of Albury, the former political neuter in this Parliament, Alderman Bunton, has demonstrated his concern at the denial of obligation that this Government has exercised. He has led to Canberra protest delegations of 50-odd businessmen. During a telephone conversation that I had today with businessmen in that growth city I was told that Borg-Warner (Aust) Ltd, transmission manufacturer, might have to retrench workers heavily unless it gets a decision about the growth centre in the near future. Maybe that firm will have to close down altogether. The book publishing firm, Collins Book Publishers, is sick of waiting and has already gone off to some other town. A.R.C. Engineering is looking at the prospects of buying a site for a factory to accommodate 80 employees. That company will soon sell if it gets no satisfaction. The Blue Circle cement company is delaying its expansion program. The Emoleum company, which is involved in road and pavement surfacing, has picked a site to lease but it is not prepared to go ahead with construction of plant unless it gets the green light from the Government. A. R. Turner (NZ) Pty Ltd, after a couple of years of negotiation, has also established that there is no hope, and it has packed its bags and gone on. Modules of Australia and New Zealand, which is one of the most progressive housing concept companies, is not prepared to take the plunge in the present situation. 
Already so many public enterprises have been put at risk. After all, there is no certainty that the construction of the university will go ahead. The same position applies in relation to the tertiary conglomerate, whatever form it is going to take. Previously some 3500 students were to be accommodated in the tertiary complex, and it was to employ 700 staff. What then has happened to the Road Safety and Standards Authority? That was to involve a $10m project in which were to be accommodated, in the long term, some 200 people. The Government has abandoned that project. The development of the Commonwealth Centre was deferred. The plans to establish there the Australian Housing Corporation are to be or have been abandoned. Some 80 workers were to go to that area because of that project alone. I see that on 10 August the  Chairman  of the Corporation,  Mr Craig,  predicted that 400 people could soon lose jobs if the program is not supported. 
Of course, it was the intention of the former Labor Government to encourage that growth centre by transferring 90 people from the Taxation Office to Albury-Wodonga. The Trade Union Training College has also virtually come to a standstill. I believe that it was to accommodate 60 people. The Transport Accident Investigating Authority was to accommodate 120 people in the short term and 200 people in the longer term. The Australian Heritage Commission was to employ 35 people. The Health Insurance Commission was to employ 200 people. The Schools Commission was to employ 184 people, and so the list goes on. The other areas of government affected were the Department of Urban and Regional Development, the Curriculum Development Centre, the Bureau of Environmental Studies and the Bureau of Meteorology. Now nobody knows what is going to happen in respect of these public instrumentalities. What did the  President  of the AlburyWodonga Businessmens' Association,  Mr Wallace,  say just the other day? He said: 
We are being torpedoed by government inactivity. 
Private enterprise has invested and stands to lose millions of dollars unless the politicians do their part. But we are concerned also as employers for the future and welfare of our employees and our own children. The project has proved its success and its economic viability. The indecision just does not make sense. 
The Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation,  Mr Crozier,  made his cryptic comments: 
If the Commonwealth does not come up with another $I5m before the end of the financial year the future of Albury-Wodonga will definitely be in doubt- and there's nothing Victoria or New South Wales can do about it. 
In a similar strain, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has mentioned, he has indicated his interest in testing the matter from a legal standpoint. The Minister for Decentralisation in New South Wales,  Mr Day  said: . . . the Federal Government had 'put the hard word' on the States but the States could not accept extra financial responsibilities without getting extra financial resources. I hope Albury-Wodonga is not a dead duck, but it is no good talking about private enterprise taking over unless governments show the way. 
The Corporation's  Deputy Chairman, Mr Les  Muir, pointed out that any money to be made available for land buying would be minimal. About 50 families in Albury-Wodonga had contracts with the Corporation to buy their holdings. Some of the contracts were 2 years old and the contracts could not be fulfilled because of cash shortage. There has been a betrayal on the part of this Government. The former Leader of the Opposition warmly welcomed the growth centre proposal when the Bill was before this Parliament. He said- and I am referring to the present  Speaker. 
I welcome all 4 of these Bills. They will be supported by the Opposition. The initiatives in these Bills set out to relieve the pressures of the ever sprawling maritime connavations We must assist this process in several ways. The whole concept implicit in these Bills . . . 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In these Estimates, the proposed expenditure for the Department of Administrative Services is $83. 7m. Included in that amount is a vote of $7.24m for the Australian Electoral Office. I take this opportunity to contend that Australia is in urgent need of electoral reform. With the imminence of a redistribution of boundaries, it is appropriate to draw attention to the very serious anomalies now existing under the Electoral Act. The boundaries of electoral divisions for the House of Representatives are in urgent need of revision, and in my view that revision should be proceeded with on the basis of a 10 per cent margin above and below the quota, as the law now provides, rather than the 20 per cent disparity over and above the quota which has always been supported by the Liberal and National Country Parties. The Opposition, of course, stands for the one man one vote principle, with votes of equal value. It stands for that principle now and always has done so. Only by the process of a Joint Sitting following a double dissolution of both Houses of Parliament was this debauchery of democratic processes reefed away from its protagonists- the coalition parties. They had been defeated in the House of Representatives and then they used their brutal majority in the Senate to defeat the legislation providing for one man one vote. At the moment our Electoral Act provides for only a 10 per cent margin above and below the quota. There are indications that honourable members opposite still harbour the reprehensible idea of reverting to the old system. If the Country Party tail wags the Liberal Party dog, that certainly will eventuate. Together, of course, the coalition parties have the numbers to do whatever they want. In the 1975 House of Representatives election the Liberal Party won 3 248 000 votes, or 42 per cent of the total. That gave it 68 seats. The 
Australian Labor Party commanded more supporta total of 3 3 13 000 votes, or 42.8 per cent of the votes. Actually, the Labor Party won 64 868 more votes than the Liberal Party, but it won only 36 seats- not 68 seats, as the Liberal Party got. On the other hand, the National Country Party won only 853 943 votes, or 1 1 per cent of the total. Yet with the reduced quota in the country areas it won 23 seats. 
If nothing else, those figures demonstate the electoral inequality of our present voting system. If the Labor Party could gain a parliamentary seat with the same number of votes as are sufficient for the Liberal and National Country Parties to gain a seat, the composition of this chamber would be very different. 
-And the honourable member for Hume would not be here. Taking the total number of votes for the Australian Labor Party and dividing it by the votes per seat for the Liberal Party, the Australian Labor Party today would hold 68 seats in the House- not 36 seats, as it does. That would be the position if the same number of votes were required to elect a Labor man as are required to elect a Liberal man. On the other hand, if one takes the National Country Party situation I can well understand why the honourable member for Hume wants to try to sit me down- one finds this incredible position: Dividing the total ALP vote by the number of votes required to elect a National Country Party candidate, Labor would have not 36 members but 89 members in the House at the present time. 
Such a system, of course, makes a mockery of the one man one vote principle. I can well understand the reason why we always get this incessant hostility, this protest, from the honourable gentlemen who are so advantaged by such an inequitable and unjust system. Members of the Country Party want to perpetuate the system; but now there are indications that the Liberal Party is developing a more reasonable attitude, and the poor old Country Party might be out on its own on this matter. The net result will be a loss of seats. It should stir the animosity and hostility of every decent citizen who believes in equality and basic electoral justice. Countries fight wars over far less important matters than this. This is the system which the National Country Party is pledged to uphold and to which it seeks to revert for the purpose of the next general election. In essence, this is what the figures mean: Labor, which polled more votes than any other party, gained 3 314 000 votes, or 42.8 per cent of the total. For each of the 36 seats that it won, it had to get 92 027 votes. The Liberal Party with fewer overall votes- that is, with 3 248 136 votes or 42 per cent of the total- had to get only 47 766 votes per seat. Just let me remind the House again of the difference. Labor had to get 92 027 votes to win a seat and the Liberal Party had to get 47 766 votes. 
-As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports says, the Liberals had to get about half of the votes that the Labor Party had to get. The National Country Party got only 853 943 votes, or 1 1 per cent of the total, and it had to win only 37 128 votes per seat. So that demonstrates in a nutshell- I know this is heavy stuff at this time of the night- the irregularities that have been perpetuated for so long. Who can justify that in the Queensland seat of McPherson, for example, the number of eligible voters at the last election stood at 102 175, while in the Queensland seat of Maranoa enrolments stood at 46 433? In Victoria, while the Prime Minister's electorate of Wannon has increased its number of voters by only 6655 since 1968- that is the date of the last redistributionto 54 583, the electorate of Diamond Valley has grown by 41 151 voters to 91 818 enrolments at the time of the last election. So there you have the situation. That demonstrates the incredible disparities. At the date of the last election enrolments in the New South Wales seat of Mitchell stood at 87 326, while the enrolments for the New South Wales seat of Darling stood at 47 979. So there is example after example which one could cite. In Victoria, for example, Diamond Valley had 91 818 enrolments compared with 50 208 enrolments in another Victorian seat of Wimmera. So the situation is that some electorates have grown by as much as 54 000 voters since the last redistribution of boundaries. 
I conclude by simply saying that a redistribution of boundaries ought to be held every 3 years unless the changes in population do not warrant it. I understand that the present Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  is advocating such a course. I think I can confidently anticipate the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to such a proposal. Regardless of the fact that it might emanate in legislative form from the Liberal Party, such a principle would, I am confident, gain the endorsement of the Labor Party. I hope the Liberals will have the guts to stand up to the debauched crowd which for so long has contaminated the electoral system. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware that yesterday the National Congress of the Returned Services League adopted unanimously a resolution advocating nuclear weapons for the Australian defence forces? Does the Minister support such a policy? Further, does he consider that statements he has been making around the country depicting Australia as the potential victim of Soviet aggression have caused considerable alarm and near hysteria in sections of the community? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Social Welfare Commission (Repeal) Bill entices one to engage in the kind of philosophical discussion that we have been listening to and I would like to proceed along those lines for a short time. This Commission, which was established by this Parliament 3 years ago, was a concept that was related to the need to evaluate social welfare provisions in Australia. It was part of the Labor Parry's enterprise and interest in upgrading the whole emphasis on social welfare and maybe it has proved to be other than the best structure or the best way to approach this problem, but it was a most laudable objective indeed. 
The Commission noted in its last publication which was entitled  An Idea before its Time  six main objectives which characterised its work. They were: 
Firstly, the identification of social goals, the understanding of social attitudes and expectations and encouragement of public response. 
Secondly, the identification and measurement of social needs. 
Thirdly, the ordering of priorities. 
Fourthly, the evolvement of alternative approaches with particular emphasis on developmental and preventive measures. 
Fifthly, the evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of existing programs and new options, and 
Finally, the encouragement of wide participation by consumers and the public in decision making. 
That seems to typify the general objectivity of the Commission. They were very great hopes and were held not only by the Commission but also by wide-ranging groups of organisations and individuals involved in social welfare programs throughout Australia. There was a need for this kind of approach but unfortunately the key element of the Commission- its independencewas, as the Commission lamented, largely illusory. There were problems and the Commission's problems began, in my view, with inadequate finance. These problems were aggravated by staffing problems which forced the Commission to rely on its executive officers and part-time commissioners for much of the research that was needed. This resulted primarily from bureaucratic breakdown that left the Commission cut off from the significant on-going research, statistical and policy analysis, and administrative support from the Department of Social Security. There were very real problems in interdepartmental relationships. 
If the House accepts, as it did in 1973 when the enabling legislation was passed, that there does exist a need for an independent body to examine critically on a continuing basis social welfare requirements of government, we should note that the Budget allocation of a mere $75,000 to establish a policy research unit at the University of New South Wales is just not enough. It is not enough because it is not accompanied by an explanation of what research the unit will conduct this year, nor is it enough simply to announce a pilot grant without a specific commitment to funding in future years. No organisation can gear up to an on-going program in these circumstances and fulfil the expectations that will be attributed to it. While not reflecting on the magnificent work undertaken by universities throughout Australia, it must be recognised that the job which is being asked of this new policy unit is simply too great a task for an isolated group of academic researchers and their assistants, lacking as they do the complete knowledge that is available through the massive resources of Federal and State bureaucracies, and of course not all these avenues of information and knowledge are automatically going to be opened to the new unit. 
No one questions the effectiveness and efficiency of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, for example, in its independent research and analysis capacities, and I suggest no one could question the establishment of a similar bureau to oversee social welfare programs. Clearly in times of economic constraints the wide and ambitious plans of the Social Welfare Commission would have to be modified in the short term, but what must be retained, whatever the cost, is the capacity for such a bureau to offer the Government and the public independent analysis of Government programs and areas of need of a high quality and standard. Unfortunately the commitment this Government has given makes no assurances on either independence or capacity, and in fact the national State consultative committees which were to be the basis of the Government's approach have not as yet been announced. The implication from this must be that such committees, when and if they are formed, are to have no real and lasting status. In addition, the membership of such committees is to be hand picked by the Minister rather than made up of delegates representing the organisations involved in social welfare undertakingsorganisations which have national, State and regional status. 
Moving briefly onto a matter that was raised by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  that is the Australian Assistance Plan, let me say that I personally regard this as one of the very ambitious projects undertaken by the previous Labor Government. I am disappointed that the Fraser Government has committed itself to the abolition of this program because rather than accept responsibility for the demise of the program, which has served so many communities so magnificently, the Government has announced that the States are to be asked to take it over- an impossibility within the confinements of the State's Budget allocations. It might have been better to make a quick clean job of it than to let it die because many people are going to be extremely disappointed and will be led up the political garden path and end up against a brick wall. I think there was a way of going about this other than the way we have been proceeding up to now. The AAP can become excessively expensive. There was possibly a tendency in that direction in the pre capita funding concept. But there is a way of encouraging and facilitating organisations and individuals to pursue objectivity in social planning, anticipating and meeting the social needs of communities. In the same way that we like to think governments can plan, we like to think that we plan our own family affairs. Obviously there is a need to have such a counterpart in planning objectivity in respect of social welfare, in respect of the social needs of communities. 
It is most unlikely that, fortuitously, regions are going to have all the elements of community aid and assistance without any planning. It is just not going to happen. If it is just not going to happen automatically and with spontaneity you have to cause it to happen and you have to have something that will facilitate its happening. You can call it what you like, such as a council of social service. There are many other names for such an organisation, but I put it to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who takes an intelligent interest in these matters, that in every region there are groups of organisations which can be brought together. I have had an experience of this in my own region in the Hughes electorate, which has incorporated the Sutherland Shire and the northern suburbs of Wollongong, with the Council of Social Service of which I became the foundation  chairman.  It had associated with it some 74 affiliated organisations, service clubs, welfare agencies and sporting organisations. 
Together these groups were able to apply themselves to community needs in a very effective way. They broke up into sub-groups concerned with the care of the aged, concerned with the care of young people and family problems. There were half a dozen cabinet groups, or groups of that nature. That organisation did not utilise a great deal of money. It was assisted by the local council which made available several thousand dollars a year. The affiliated bodies themselves were encouraged to raise money, and so on. As a result the Sutherland Shire Council of Social Service, with its 74 affiliated bodies, had a permanent office in the centre of the region. It had a full-time secretary and a number of voluntary people. It conducted training courses and supported a referral centre. It organised the preparation of the regional social welfare directory and in general terms it rendered a very great community service. 
I am simply saying for the benefit of the Minister that from my personal experience there is an alternative way of running the Australian Assistance Plan. The per capita funding scheme had a tendency to get out of hand and if it had gone on in that way it would have involved probably more money than the Government at this stage is prepared to expend. I strongly commend to the Government a consideration of the proposal that on a regional basis some funding could take place which would enable those groups to get together and ease the burden of office expenses and what could be called basic entrepreneurial costs. At the moment the AAP is on the skids. This gloomy outlook is having an impact on the morale of hundreds of voluntary workers and professional workers too whose enthusiasm has been stimulated in the past and whose expectations have been raised by the very operation of the AAP. Valuable human and social resources are in danger of being lost. I refer honourable gentlemen to an excellent article in the Melbourne  Age  of 15 July which talks very effectively about this matter. 
Finally, mention must be made of Government attempts to kill the Social Welfare Commission before the repealing legislation was even drafted. This attempt failed because administrative action to overcome the statutory foundation of the Commission was successfully resisted by the Commission. As my colleague in the Senate, the shadow Minister for Social Security, mentioned when he spoke on the Bill in that place, the advisability of allowing officers of any department or any officer of a statutory body to treat the passage of a repealing Bill as a mere formality must be questioned by members on both sides of this House. 
In concluding, might I add my compliments to the superlative job undertaken in difficult circumstances by the Commissioners and their staff. The results of their labours, not only in terms of publications, but also in terms of the success achieved through their programs will I hope, be a lasting tribute to their efforts. I look forward sincerely to the success of the new unit which the Government has contemplated and mentioned. I believe that in the short term at least it will provide some kind of on-going program- a link to what might be another Social Welfare Commission in a different form, a more effective organisation than the one contemplated at the moment. The idea is not yet dead. I hope that the unit that has been proposed will have a successful period of operation until something more desirable and more useful to the Australian community emerges. 
-by leaveMr  Speaker,  as a result of the prompting of the Aboriginal people and the Opposition the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has finally seen fit to table the Hay report. The principles of open government certainly do not apply, if the government has its way, to Aboriginal affairs. But it is important that this report has now been tabled, although belatedly, so that everyone interested in Aboriginal affairs can have access to the information revealed therein. The Australian Parliament and the people can now see the justification for the allegation by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of waste, extravagance, duplication and over utilisation in the expenditure of funds on Aboriginal welfare. Strangely the Minister, in the statement just read to the House, failed to make any specific mention of such misspending. The Parliament and the people can now see justification for the Prime Minister's covert briefing of journalists in bis office on 18 May when he first made these allegations and leaked selected portions of the Hay report. This was done at a time when no member of this Parliament, with the possible exception of the Minister, had any knowledge of the report. If one wanted deliberately to contrive a method and a process whereby the Parliament could be brought into contempt that certainly would be the best way of going about it. 
The people and the Parliament can now see the justification for the slashing of expenditure on Aboriginal welfare of $33m in the Budget and the abrogation of the election commitment given by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in December last year. The House has been treated to a detailed account of that long telegram on several occasions in which in a most unambiguous and unqualified way an assurance was given to the Aboriginal people that they would be better off and that there would be no curtailment of expenditure. Now we see that funds made available for these purposes are being expanded, bit by bit, as the wrath, indignation and hostility of the Aboriginal people and the people of Australia generally is brought to bear. So today we are able to see another $25m reluctantly released by the Government. The Prime Minister, the people and the Parliament have seen the justification for the Minister's statement in August as follows: 
The money spent by the Department is not getting through to the Aboriginal people but is going into the pockets of others or gobbled up in administration. 
In what we have heard from the Minister so far the Hay report has failed to reveal any evidence along those lines. 
Given the magnitude of these charges and the numerous assertions by Ministers one would have expected that the statement just delivered and the much leaked Hay report would be revealing and damning documents indeed. One would have expected that there would be numerous examples of extravagance, administrative incompetence, qualified and audited financial reports and detailed instances of duplication and waste, but where are they? The speech lacked any detail in that regard. One would also have expected that the statement would contain detailed proposals for the re-organisation of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and details of various means in which public expenditure is to be monitored in the future but there has been no indication along those lines either. The Minister's 12 page statement does not document one example of extravagance, waste or incompetence. Indeed, the Hay report itself provides no justification for the Prime Minister's allegations. There has been much huffing and puffing but there is no meat on the bone in respect of all these insinuations and innuendoes. In fact, as early as 25 August this year, when journalists were able to see the full Hay report, the  Australian Financial Review,  in a banner headlined article, claimed: 
The Hay Report provides no basis for Aboriginal cuts. 
The article pointed out that the report, while critical of aspects of the Department's capacity to digest, administer and properly evaluate large-scale funding programs, remained silent in the areas in which the Prime Minister made his allegations. 
The report provides little justification for the wide-ranging cuts in such areas as cultural and sporting activities, Aboriginal enterprises and support for land councils. Indeed, the Hay report particularly pointed to the successes of housing associations, State housing authorities and the Loans Commission. There was no detailed criticism but there was considerable eulogy about the usefulness of the initiatives which were taken early in the life of the Labor Government. These are the same housing associations which the Prime Minister singled out in his campaign to undermine public support for Aboriginal expenditure. The statement of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that an additional $25m is to be injected into the area of Aboriginal affairs is to be welcomed. Of course, anything in the way of additional funds for these deprived people will be welcomed. I see an honourable gentleman opposite nodding enthusiastically. If honourable members on the Government side go around places where Aboriginal people live as often as many of my colleagues do they will be able to see for themselves the product of some 200 years of indifference and neglect. They will see communities without almost any contact with the outside world, lacking completely in any kind of amenities at all. 
-If the honourable gentleman had listened he would know I was talking about the product of 200 years of indifference and neglect. It is the fault of the Australian people, if he likes. Certainly, it is the fault of the Government which prevailed for 23 years in office before the Labor Government was elected in 1972. As all Aboriginal people will readily and enthusiastically acknowlege, in the 3 years of Labor Government more initiatives were taken than in the preceding 23 years. If the Labor Government had remained in office those initiatives would now be coming to fruition on a considerable scale and with real benefit accruing to the Aboriginal people. 
I mentioned the housing associations which were the subject of criticism and which were instanced as the reason for the slashing of the budget for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Those associations have not been effectively criticised in the Hay report. The $2 5 m will help to redress the injustice which has been done to the whole cause of Aboriginal housing. However, the hardship and frustration caused by this delay is neither justified nor explained in the Minister's statement or in the Hay report. As has been pointed out since the Budget, the undertaking given by the Attorney-General, who was the spokesman on Aboriginal affairs at the time of the last election, to maintain existing programs, has been breached. It is not fulfilled even through this new injection of funds. In fact, expenditure remains some $16m below that appropriated in the previous financial year, that is, in 1975-76. One has to add to that amount the effect of a 12 per cent inflation rate. So the amount of curtailment, even with the additional $25m, is much more than $ 16m. The Minister's statement that a comparison of funding from year to year is of little consequence demonstrates the clear indifference which this Government showed in its previous 23 years in office. Once again this indifference is demonstrated. 

 Mr David Hay I was going to say the Hay Committee, but this is a one-man band- was commissioned by the Government on 16 February last. Effectively, he has had three and a half months to compile this report which runs to 172 pages. The report contains a lot more detail than did the speech of the Minister which we have just heard. That speech contains specious platitudes and little of substance. The extent to which the report has substance, shows that it must have been derived, to some considerable degree, from some distant contact with Aboriginal people. Earlier today I was speaking with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  who, like myself and other members of the House, went to northern parts of Australia to see the Aboriginal people during the week of the parliamentary recess. He mentioned to me that he did not find an Aboriginal community where the Aboriginal people were able to say: 'We discussed the problems affecting the Aboriginal communities and the Department with  Mr Hay'. 
I have been to many communities and I have failed to hear any mention of  Mr David  Hay. Some people can go to the Northern Territory, spend a week there, and become instant experts on Aboriginal affairs and write a book.  Mr Hay  has written a 1 72-page report. No doubt, he has made some visitation. I am quite sure that as a conscientious officer and former administrator of Papua New Guinea he is skilled in administrative processes and is able to link into the report the views of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and some Aboriginal community leaders. I see the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  sitting opposite. I find it difficult to recall the number of occasions on which he has been to Aboriginal communities. I have just paid my 35 th visit to the Northern Territory. One cannot sit down in an ivory tower in Canberra, talk to an officer and get a thorough understanding about these matters.  Mr Hay  acknowledged that time was too short for him to do justice to this matter. I have not had time to read the Hay report. I am not sure that I had it before the Minister tabled it illegally. At least, I got it a short while ago and I see that on the front page  Mr Hay  states: 
 I have been unable to complete the consideration in depth of 2 main aspects, the effectiveness of the delivery of  services to Aboriginals by State government departments receiving grants from the Commonwealth, and the coordination of capital works programs affecting Aboriginals. I have included some reference to expenditure by the States. 
There are several more lines on that matter. That is an admission by  Mr Hay  that this report is not the be-all and end-all of everything in connection with the needs of Aboriginal people. There has been a great deal of talk about the poor planning in Aboriginal affairs and a lot of talk about consultants digging in deep to derive massive rip-offs. I was quite surprised as I cursorily nicked over these pages to see nothing that provided any evidence along those lines. 
I take the opportunity to put into perspective the way in which added emphasis was given to Aboriginal affairs with the advent of the Labor Government. I mention the expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. I truly acknowledge that money alone will not solve the problems of these people. Nevertheless, it pays for a lot of services which are extremely significant in relation to their well being. I go back to 1971-72 when the coalition Government brought down its Budget. It provided for an expenditure of $30.9m on Aboriginal affairs. In 1972-73, the last Budget for which that Government was responsible, the amount went up to $6 1.1m. In 1973-74, which was the first Labor Party Budget when the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  presided over Aboriginal affairs, the government of the day recognised the deficiency in spending to the extent that it increased expenditure from  $6  1 . 1 m to $ 1 17.4m. In the next year the amount went to $ 163.6m and in 1975-76 it increased to $193m. Then, of course, through the Fraser Government's first Budget the amount was cut back by $33m. Now we have the additional allocation which the Minister has spoken of today. That expenditure is associated with many great initiatives which were taken by the Labor Government. A new momentum was established in Aboriginal affairs. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Wills, was discussing these matters with me today. With him I have made many visits to Aboriginal communities and organisations. He said to me: 'One can easily note the difference today as against a few years ago. As you go to Aboriginal communities today, at least you can find people willing and able to stand up and give an effective account of themselves'. The total paternalism which prevailed in many Aboriginal communities has changed. Aboriginal people have acquired self-respect. They are prepared to say what they think they need. A new democratisation characterises Aboriginal affairs. But it is now being pinned back, if I may use that expression. A despondency has settled over some of these Aboriginal communities as a result of the curtailment of funds and also because of the undermining of the most important matter concerning Aboriginal people, land rights. 
With some of my colleagues who are members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, which is currently engaged on an inquiry into alcoholism in Aboriginal communities, I went to the Mowanjum community near Derby just the other day. I think it is less than 12 months since I was there. I have never seen a community deteriorate so quickly in terms of responsiveness and enthusiasm. That community is quite unsure of the possible continuation of future projects. This is typical of many Aboriginal communities in Western Australia, Queensland and the Northern Territory. 
There has been a great deal of talk today by the Minister and a lot has been said in  Mr Hay's  report about Aboriginal housing. I know that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs speculates that some 8000 houses to 9000 houses are desperately needed by Aboriginal people. We have been spending a considerable amount in this area for several years. If we were to finance 8000 houses at $25,000 a piece, which would not be very much to spend on a dwelling in remote parts of the Northern Territory, Western Australia, New South Wales, Queensland and the other isolated parts of Australia, we would need $200m. Of course, that kind of money is just not available at the present time. But this situation indicates the need to sustain the level of spending. I understand from what the Minister saidthough his remarks are a bit vague- that most of the additional $25m might go to housing, and if that is the case I certainly welcome it. 
The Aboriginal housing associations have been dealt a very serious blow. When we think of housing associations it is very important not just to think of the end product, which is a house. We should realise that housing associations and the houses they build just do not start overnight. The Labor Government's attempt to democratise Aboriginal affairs was aimed at Aboriginal people speaking for themselves, engaging their own consultants, deciding what houses they needed and where they wanted them to be built. But the Aboriginal housing associations have been demoralised since the Fraser Government took office. There are many ways to build houses. One could wheel in some big project building concerns and perhaps supply 8000 houses or 9000 houses within a matter of months. But if we do that we have to look at what we are likely to leave behind or what we are not going to leave behind. Houses may be built in that way but Aboriginal people will be deprived of the opportunity of acquiring skills. If we do the job in that way and deprive Aboriginal people of the opportunity to acquire self-sufficiency in future employment through skills obtained in building their houses we will have failed. 
Aboriginal people want to participate in these things and they are throwing paternalism overboard. We can still see paternalism in evidence around Australia, regardless of the attempt of the Labor Government to discourage it Last week some of my colleagues visited an Aboriginal community where all the pension cheques are received by the mission and the food is supplied to all the Aboriginal people from a little kitchen. Some of the money which is left from the pension cheques, the child endowment payments or unemployment benefits is handed back to the Aboriginal people. The Aborigines at this mission are very well fed and complacent. But when all is said and done they are being deprived of what most people would willingly go to war aboutthe right to have a say in the running of their affairs. There is a very big difference between wheeling in a building company with its own architects and laying down streets of houses for Aboriginal people, and allowing Aboriginal people to develop independence, autonomy and self-sufficiency by building the houses themselves. 
I will curtail my remarks because I think one of my colleagues wants to speak on this matter. There are a number of subjects that I would like to talk about. One of the subjects mentioned by the Minister was employment. Before I talk about employment I just want to say how distressed I am to read a letter sent from the Appatula housing group at Finke. If there is one outstanding enterprise in Aboriginal housing, it is the Appatula housing system which embraces a prefabrication technique which Aboriginal people have thrown themselves into with great enthusiasm and which now, of course, has been grounded for want of funds. I hope the Minister will give serious consideration to resurrecting the Appatula housing project at Finke. 
I am very concerned that wherever one goes these days in the Northern Territory in particular and Western Australia as well there is a great deal of complaint amongst Aboriginal people about the curtailment of special works projects. In 1975-76 special works projects were running at the rate of $4.6m. There is a lot to be said for 
Aboriginal people working for their money. Aboriginal people are developing a contempt for what they call 'sit down money'. They are developing concern about what they call increased baby money' or 'child endowment money'. Many of them are contending that that kind of money will find its way into the pubs to buy the flagons of grog which are destroying Aboriginal people. 
The Minister has made some very vague mention of his intention to consider channelling unemployment benefit money into work projects. I am sure that the House will be listening with very keen anticipation to hear the Minister spell out what he means in this connection. If there is one thing that we should very carefully avoid in respect of Aboriginal people it is any discriminatory treatment. Many people say that generally people should be required to work for unemployment benefits. I am not a strong advocate of that because I think it is very demeaning to send out a person who has a higher school certificate or who might have several degrees to pick up papers for the local council. But I certainly cannot see why this sort of treatment should apply to Aboriginal people alone. So I would be very much opposed to any discrimination in that regard. One cannot just provide extra money to pay wages to Aboriginal people for special works projects or anything else. Obviously we have to look at the whole spectrum of Aboriginal needs, and that will call for a sustaining of the levels of expenditure even above the level achieved by the Labor Government. After all, Aboriginal people need money for pastoral projects. They need employment opportunities in pastoral projects and in market gardening. They will need advisers for some time to come. The Government can pull out their advisers far too quickly and leave these people in a state of limbo. But they need constant consultation. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and I went to Wave Hill just a few weeks ago. I was very gratified to see the Gurindji people making a fist of things on their cattle station. 
They had a great battle to get it and it was the Labor Government that made that huge area of land available to them. They will be able to sustain that effort, but only with the support of advisers. I think that the Government should be considering a preferred market for beef produced by Aboriginal people. Maybe they could supply beef for Commonwealth Hostels Ltd and Aboriginal Hostels Ltd. 
Maybe their beef could be used in the aid program for other countries. The same thing would apply, of course, to market garden products and the sea foods which are gathered by Torres Strait Islanders. 
I support the Minister's contention that more funds, as recommended by  Mr Hay,  should be made available for culture and recreation because these activities have a great deal of benefit. I also support the contention that there needs to be a lot more support for Aboriginal people in respect of the keeping of accounts. Aboriginal communities and organisations all over Australia fall down on this particular aspect. While I was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I had in mind setting up an instrumentality to assist them in these things. It seems to me that many hundreds of small companies- shopkeepers and the likearound Australia rely on a firm which sets up an accountancy system for them and which periodically supervises these matters for them. I believe that a very high level of autonomy can be maintained while still servicing them in such a way that their confidence will not be undermined. 
I know that my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  wants to contribute to this debate, but let me say in conclusion that we find the Hay report disappointing, although I confess I have not had an opportunity to read it in full. It is a damp squib. Having in mind the contentions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  we expected some sensational revelations. All we have is the clear revelation that there was no justification at all for the curtailment of Aboriginal expenditure and it is obviously time that the Minister got on with the job of effectively administering his Department and deploying his personnel, and preferably Aboriginal personnel, throughout the countryside so that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs can have a presence which it has not had until now, and so that Aboriginal people can be encouraged to develop their self-respect. The sooner this Government stops tipping the bucket over Aboriginal people and stops talking disparagingly about their inability to run housing associations and the like and about their susceptability to being robbed and ripped off, the sooner the Aboriginal people themselves will play their part in their emancipation and in the upliftment that has been denied to them for so long. 
-Many millions of dollars have been mentioned in respect of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and I would like to deal with them in some detail. In my view the estimates for this Department represent one of the most cynical and shamful aspects of this Government's first 10 months in office and in particular of its first Budget. In no other area has the Government been so roundly and so deservedly condemned. After all, the estimates, in the form in which they came before the Committee, involved a 30 per cent cut in real terms amounting to some $33m. I know that as a result of agitation which emanated from the Aboriginal communities and from the Opposition there has been some redressing of that deficiency today and we were very gratified to see it. Throughout 3 years of perseverance by the Labor Government we saw new initiatives in so many areas, the involvement of new administrative machinery and the creation of a new departmental presence in various parts of Australia. We on this side of the House made our mistakes but I think it has now been accepted by everybody that those 3 years were years of great achievement. Aboriginal self-esteem and pride was emerging but as a result of the Budget these things took a great nose-dive. Much of what was gained through the efforts of the Labor Government has now been lost as a result of this Government's diversion of funds to the mining giants and its overseas friends. 
I want to speak briefly about the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. A very serious deterioration is taking place in that Service. In one State alone, New South Wales, in 1974 some 19 000 matters were dealt with by the Aboriginal Legal Service. I want to draw extensively on the report of  Mr David  Hay, a report which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  selectively quoted to justify their cutback in Aboriginal expenditure. Last year expenditure on legal aid amounted to a little more than $3. 745m. This year the appropriation is $3.746m. The appropriation in this area has been increased from the level of expenditure in 1975-76 by $221. 1 am not talking about millions of dollars; I am talking about $22 1 -a very paltry amount. That has happened despite an inflation rate of 12.4 per cent. Therefore the Committee can realise that the purchasing power, the spending power, of the Aboriginal Legal Service has declined.  Mr David  Hay has said eulogistic things about the effective delivery of legal advice to Aboriginals through the Aboriginal Legal Service. While this appropriation is close to that of last year's amount, it is still not enough to do the job. Most Aboriginal legal services are at present undergoing an acute shortage of funds which, quite naturally, is affecting their capacity to provide the services necessary and, in many instance, vital to Aboriginals throughout the community. 
Three weeks ago, on 14 September, the Victorian Aboriginal Legal Service was informed that from that day a firm of solicitors which had done a large amount of work for the Service would be unable to accept any additional work until the payment of its outstanding accounts was effected. This account was only one of many. In Victoria alone, as at today's date, I understand that the outstanding amount or unpaid amount owing to legal firms is $63,000. The situation is also very serious in other States. Despite the fact that funds from 1975-76 were expended before a new Supply Bill was passed, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in an explanation presented to the Senate Estimates Committee, stated: 
An extension of legal services to remote areas where the need for such services has not been met is expected. 
I ask honourable members to look at this situation. We have the Department acknowledging that large areas are not serviced by legal aid but that they will be this year. I have documentation which shows that funds ran out earlier than the fiscal year. I ask: How can honourable members reconcile these 2 matters? What services will be cut back? Does the Minister expect that with Aboriginal unemployment now at over 70 per cent in some areas, legal services will not be required? I refer to a directive issued to regional directors in relation to Aboriginal Legal Services. This directive, which has gone around Australia and is dated 12 July 1976, states: 
. the previous Government's commitment to pay the costs of representation for all Aboriginal in all courts no longer operative. 
In consequence, and pending the issuing of more detailed operational guidelines in the next few weeks, legal services should  not: 
. Engage in ancillary activities such as welfare, adoption agencies etc., but may refer clients requiring help in these areas to appropriate agencies, and undertake such liaison as is necessary to ensure access to such agencies comparable to that available to other Australians. 
Represent clients on matters arising under the Family Law Act these matters should be referred to the ALAO or other legal aid agencies. 
Meet the costs of conveyancing for home purchase, probate, letters of administration, motor vehicle third party actions, or civil actions between 2 Aboriginal parties. 
Undertake first class travel on public transport. (All necessary public transport travel should be by second class rail or bus, where this is available, except when travel to a destination by this means would necessitate an overnight stop . . .). 
Incur debts (professional or trade) which exceed the provision in their quarterly budget against relevant items as advised by regional officers. 
And so it goes on. I have already indicated the very serious nature of the directive and the fact that it will be an inhibiting factor for Aboriginal legal services around Australia. I quote from the Hay report in regard to the Aboriginal Legal Service. It states: 
The result of the introduction of Aboriginal legal services has meant a dramatic decrease in the rate of convictions recorded, and severity of sentences against Aboriginals. 
I ask honourable members to compare that statement with a statement made by  Senator Bonner  in another place when speaking a short time ago on the Aborigines and Islanders (Admissibility of Confessions) Bill. It is in sharp contrast. He stated: 
It is an inescapable fact that the indigenous and islander people of Australia are the most incarcerated race in the world. 
I leave the comparison of these statements to honourable members. I express an earnest hope that in this area additional funds can be allocated. I am not sure how many legal firms are sitting back, unable to take on any more work because of the unavailability of funds. I understand that funds have been bottlenecked in the Budget process. A process could have been contrived to overcome this problem. I have a letter from a firm of solicitors in Victoria. It states: 
The partners meeting of this firm held last Monday and our letter of . . . was considered. It was decided that all accounts outstanding of 60 days or more will have to be paid no later than 14 September next 
We reluctantly have to advise that if those accounts have not been paid by 14 September then we have no alternative than to cease acting for the Service. 
All we can say, as we are most concerned, and have been for some time at those accounts outstanding for a lengthy period of time. 
We await hearing from you. 
One could talk about many matters but if the Aboriginal Legal Service is undermined through the inadequacy of funds or through the failure of this Government to introduce a process to facilitate the early payment of Budget funds it will be a disaster for the Aboriginal people. Already I have produced enough evidence to show that many Aboriginal people are being deprived under this heading. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What funds have been provided for the Project Enrichment Pre-school in Bourke, N.S.W., in each year since its inception in 1 970, and what funding is intended in 1 976-77. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Was the acquisition in 1975 of 2 19 hectares of land on Towra Point on Kumell Peninsula, New South Wales at a cost of $3,869,300 intended as part of a proposed total acquisition of 600 hectares to establish a national nature reserve. 
If so, when, and at what cost, will the subsequent acquisition be finalised. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the acquisition of 2 1 9 hectares of land at Towra Point, Kurnell Peninsula, N.S.W., for the purpose of a national nature reserve been completed. 
If not, what are the reasons for the delay and when will the acquisition be finalised. 
-by leaveThe fact that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs has chosen to produce this interim report on alcohol problems of Aborigines in the Northern Territory shows how seriously the problem is regarded by the Committee. The Committee had access to some SO publications, it visited 16 Aboriginal communities and it took evidence from 44 departmental, private and agency witnesses. It is an established fact that alcohol consumption is relatively high in the Northern Territory, and serious social, economic and health problems undoubtedly accrue as a result. Aboriginal people are by no means the only ones who are vulnerable in this respect, and the inquiry must not be regarded as a witchhunt against them. There are many militating circumstances relating to Aboriginal consumption of alcohol in the Northern Territory. 
The Aborigines live in a hot, arid climate. Per capita expenditure on alcoholic beverages is higher in the Northern Territory than in other parts of Australia. The Milner report states that in 1973 per capita expenditure for Australia was $133 and $198 for Darwin. In the report titled 40 Gallons per Head', which was produced by the Alice Springs Regional Council for Social Development, this contention is made:  the people of the southern region of the Northern Territory drink almost twice as much as any other heavy drinking community for which data is available. 
Northern Territory Aborigines are obviously influenced by the heavy drinking atmosphere around them. Aboriginal drinking appears to reflect despondency arising from the loss of traditional land and life style; the breakdown of tribal law; the ineffectiveness of the white man's law in remote regions; massive unemploymentAborigines account for probably more than SO per cent of the work force; and poor socioeconomic conditions. 
Aboriginal drinking is also very public and very visible, and this reflects the Aboriginal outdoor living style. It also reflects the community nature of Aboriginal life and the sharing characteristic which is customary of the Aboriginal race. It must be remembered that apart from a few exceptions, Aboriginal communities have no counterpart to the white man's social club. There is a deficiency of home refrigeration and ice supplies in Aboriginal communities, which probably provides an incentive to after-hours drinking in the vicinity of the town hotel where cold beer is available. This circumstance possibly provides some explanation for the consumption rate of fortified wines and what is called the 'hot stuff'- rum and other spirits. 
The report lists the serious social consequences of excessive alcohol consumption which, if left unchecked, could easily reach genocidal proportions. In the face of such an alarming situation the Committee is concerned that a period of 3 years and 4 months has elapsed since the Board of Inquiry on Liquor Problems, which was appointed by the Northern Territory Legislative Council, presented its report. If the recommendations of that Board of Inquiry had been implemented, many Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory could have been spared a great deal of suffering. The fact that the Northern Territory Legislative Council has not given effect to these far-reaching reforms provides ground for the most serious concern. If drafting resources are inadequate to enable the introduction of new ordinances, then adequate resources should be provided without further delay. This matter obviously, needs priority attention by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and possibly by the Federal Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott). 
The  Chairman  of the Committee has already mentioned the cavalcade of human tragedy, as revealed by the evidence given to the Committee. We were told that children as young as 8 years of age are being intoxicated; that wives are being beaten up to make them hand over child endowment, and that child endowment increases- the baby money- has been and is being used to buy grog; that charter planes are flying loads of liquor into reserves; that one community passed around a hat on one occasion and that $3,000 was collected in 2 days to buy grog; that husbands are selling women to finance liquor supplies. We were told of a communityand I quote- 'collapsing in a great, bloody, brawling, sprawling drunken heap'; that white men are selling flagons of wine to Aborigines at $20 a flagon; that one Aboriginal drunk pick-up service picks up 50 to 60 people a night; that one Northern Territory town has 52 liquor outlets; and we were told of a community rationing beer to 12 cans per adult per day and 24 cans on Saturdays. All this clearly reveals a great human tragedy. 
The Committee has made a number of proposals to deal with this disastrous situation. It is not prepared to recommend discriminatory treatment about the rights of Aboriginal people to drink. It has not recommended prohibition, knowing that that is unachievable. The local option system is supported, but clearly more attention should be given to this matter, particularly in terms of decision-taking processes by Aboriginals and the frequency with which the question might be put to a community. A minority report supports retention of the personal liquor permit system on a local option basis provided it is efficiently policed to avoid abuse. One of the reasons for this point of view is to ensure that communities opting for prohibition can still provide permits for visiting contractors and servicing personnel if that is considered necessary by the Aboriginal community concerned. 
The Committee has not sought to reverse the decision to decriminalise drunkenness. It advocates greater mobility of the Northern Territory police, the provision of more police stations, the enforcement of decisions by Aboriginal communities on liquor consumption, restrictions on the carriage of liquor in taxis and aircraft, the issue of club permits, the provision of detoxification and rehabilitation units, and the setting up of a drug and alcohol authority. The question of customary law obviously requires further attention. 
Both the  Chairman  of the Committee and I have had an opportunity to deal only cursorily with some of the highlights of the Committee's findings. I commend the report and the transcript of evidence to the consideration of the Parliament and of all those people who are interested in the survival of the Aboriginal race. 
-The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is regarded far and wide as being strong on rhetoric and very short on ideas. He presides over what is fast becoming a disaster area. The many heads of transport referred to by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  are deteriorating. I want to refer to a deteriorating scene- the road scene in Australia. Under the National Road Act the Commonwealth and State governments are required to co-operate to develop a system of national highways. This program, as mutually approved, is to qualify for total funding by the Commonwealth. The national highway system totals some 16 000 kilometers and comprises the most direct road links between adjacent mainland capital cities. It also covers the highways linking Brisbane and Cairns and Hobart with Burnie. The Minister has told me in correspondence that some 70 per cent of the system requires construction or reconstruction and that it will take some 10 years to bring the existing system to suitable standards. Judging by the way things are going I think he has been very conservative in his estimate. A period of 30 years probably would be closer to the mark. 
In the light of this critical situation the Bureau of Roads, in its  Report on Roads in Australia 1975,  has recommended that the declared system of roads should not be extended at this time. Of course it knows that it ought to be extended but it realises that in view of the limited finance which the Government is prepared to make available for roads it is quite useless to propose extending the system. Even the Minister for Transport would concede that most of our major highways need upgrading. This certainly applies to the Hume Highway, the Princes Highway and the Pacific Highway which can only be regarded as national disgraces. 
On 30 September last the Australian Automobile Association recommended that an additional $130m be injected into roads this financial year. The  President  of the Association,  Mr M.  A. K. Thompson, claimed that such expenditure would yield benefits in the vicinity of 4 times that expenditure, that the program would significantly reduce unemployment and that State and local governments are to stand down roadworkers because of the lack of funds. We already have seen some evidence of that. He also claimed that rural communities with pockets of unemployment would be assisted and that a stimulated road construction program would generate activity in many basic industries. He instanced in particular the bitumen industry, the blue metal and quarrying industry, the heavy machinery industry, the cement and steel reinforcement industries as being likely to benefit. It sounds like a good case to me. Additionally, there would be a major requirement for roadside furniture as he put it- the hardware necessary for safety and dividing rails, signs, light posts, lighting fixtures, wiring and the countless items that go into making a modern road. 
The additional amount of $130m which  Mr Thompson  asked for was the difference between the Government's reduced allocation and the amount recommended by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. In its report the Bureau proposed 5-year expenditure program of $2,988m until 1980-81 and contended that this program would yield net benefits of $ 1 1 ,6 10m or 3.9 times its cost. It was also estimated that $775m would be saved in accident costs, $3,630m would be saved in occupant travel time in commercial vehicles and $4,045m would be saved in vehicle operating costs. Obviously those figures represent a sensible and impressive case put forward not by politicians or someone with a partisan axe to grind but by experts who know about the road system and who are considering the needs of the travelling and commuting public in Australia. 
The Government's increase in 1976-77 was not $ 130m as proposed but a niggardly, pathetic and inadequate increase of $35. 8m. That increase is hardly sufficient to take account of the inflationary trend. Regrettably, the Minister, with characteristic short-sightedness has offhandedly dismissed the proposal on the dubious contention that the program would be inflationary. In other words, inflation is being used as an excuse to curtail public initiative in the area of road construction and development. Meanwhile the Government talks about the need for productivity. It seems to think that we have to produce motor cars but producing roads does not come within the same area of consideration when thinking about productivity. Why, in my area we have a toll road. If people are prepared to pay for a road, as they do, in such instances to produce a road is as much a contribution to productivity as it is to produce a motor car. If the Government wants to deal with inflation by increasing productivity the Minister ought to abandon his prejudice towards developing Australia 's road system. 
Amongst the most neglected road systems in Australia is the complex used for coal exports. In the area north, south and west of Wollongong and Port Kembla coal trucks monopolise the system throughout the rural, residential and commercial areas. The South Coast Conservation Society estimates that some 700 coal trucks a day bear coal over the roads for export through Port Kembla. Trucks come in to the Camden coal washery from Lithgow, Singleton and other places as massive truck movements serve the collieries stretching through the northern suburbs of Wollongong, which area I represent. 
The Council of the City of Wollongong, individuals and organisations have been loud in their condemnation of the anguish and nuisance which these massive trucks cause to residents and motorists and the appalling damage done to the roads system in that area. Over the last year federal revenue has benefited to the tune of some $30m derived from the coal export duty. Of course, there is other revenue as well but the $30m from the coal export duty in respect of Port Kembla is a result of the throughput of 5 million tonnes of export coal with the imposition of the duty of $6 per tonne. In addition, Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd uses about 5 million tonnes of coal a year in its Port Kembla steelworks. None of this revenue has been allocated either to the upgrading of coal roads or to the development of a relevant rail network to carry coal for export. 
The Wollongong rail system is a working museum of delightful antiquity. Nowhere else is there such a need for modern rollingstock and loading and unloading facilities. Yet it remains the most inadequate and outmoded transport system in the entire country. Nothing has happened. There has been an effective curtailment of public expenditure on roads and other transport systems of Australia while this Government has prevailed. It escapes every sense of responsibility and all logic that in these circumstances the Government has now decided to phase out the coal export duty which could be used to facilitate the transport of coal. The duty on high quality coal is to be reduced from $6 to $4.50 per tonne and on other coal it is to be reduced from $2 to $ 1.50 at a cost of $37m in a full year. The industry can afford to pay the coal export duty. That duty should be channelled directly into the development of export roads. Virtually no roads in this great export region have been designated under the legislation relating to export roads. I commend the Minister to consider that instead of wiping out the duty on coal he should take positive steps in the Cabinet room to give the people of the Wollongong-Port Kembla region a fair go with some reasonable degree of safety by using some of that money to develop the WollongongPort Kembla road system. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the total value of loans insured by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. 
What are the Corporation's (a) liabilities, (b) assets and (c) reserves. 
What premium rates apply to the (a) Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and (b) Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation. 
Does the Government have any plans to reduce premium rates or to utilise reserves to assist low income housing programs. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the responsibility of the Post Office to have available for public use forms authorising employers to deduct for taxation purposes interest payments in respect of housing mortgage loans. 
If so, have complaints been received that these forms have been unavailable at many Sydney post offices, and are steps being taken to overcome this problem. 
-The House is presently dealing with 5 Bills in a cognate debate. One is a social services Bill, one is a repatriation Bill, two are health Bills and one is a Bill concerning handicapped people. It would be very difficult for me to fit into the short time available an effective account of my attitude to all of these Bills. I think it is unfortunate that we do not have more time to debate these very important measures. I intend to use up some of my time on the Social Services Amendment Bill, which has 5 main objectives. They are an increase in the standard and married rates of pension, adjustment of the standard and married rates of pension and benefits periodically; the introduction of an income test for pensions, replacing the previous merged means test; an increase in the rate of the handicapped child's allowance; and a new arrangement to pay unemployment and sickness benefit on a fortnightly rather than weekly basis. That is the essence of the legislation that I want to speak about. 
I believe that the Social Services Amendment Bill is a hotch-potch of benefits and broken promises, which is contrary to what the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  has indicated. It demonstrates that the Government lacks real philosophical objectivity in the area of social welfare. Much could be done to redress that situation. I think it needs to set up some kind of instrumentality or some kind of panel to work out where it is going because there are very real inconsistencies in what it is doing at the present time. For example, the Social Services Amendment Bill provides for increased pensions and benefits for some categories of recipients and denies the same increases to other recipients who are equally as worthy. The honourable member for Petrie would find it very hard to reconcile that situation. 
The pension increases which reflect the rise in the consumer price index are being paid grudgingly and belatedly. Pensioners are suffering a  5  months to 7 months lag in receiving the cost of living adjustments. If they were workers out on the job with a bit of political clout behind them there would be uproar in the country, but they happen to be age, invalid and widow pensioners. So this Government is prepared to take advantage of them and to allow that lag to occur in respect of the adjustment that follows the CIP movements. The new income test for the determination of pension entitlements represents a debauched version of the recommendation made by Professor Henderson in his first main report on poverty and opens the door for a whole new ball game of abuse and exploitation of the new scheme. Some benefits are contained in the new proposal, but it is also wide open to exploitation. The people who are going to exploit it most are the more affluent people- the people who are most effectively represented by honourable gentlemen opposite. The pension increases proposed are in respect of the consumer price index movements for the March and June quarters of 1976, but they will not take effect until 1 1 November. This means that the Government is lagging  VA  months in paying the increase occasioned by the CPI movement in the March quarter and  5V4  months in paying the increase occasioned by the CPI movement in the June quarter. Obviously that lengthy delay will seriously and deleteriously affect the purchasing power of pensioners. I was not in the House at the time, but I heard the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  mention the sum of, I think, $78m in this respect. I ask the honourable gentleman whether that is the figure he mentioned. 
-The honourable member has verified the enormity of the amount, of which pensioners are to be deprived. There are probably  VA  million to 1% million pensioners who will be the victims of this sleight of hand, of this failure on the part of this Government to honour its election promise. To redress the situation the differential should be paid retrospectively to the actual date on which the consumer price index movements were announced; that is, the increase for the March quarter should be payable back to at least April when the CPI figures were announced and the increase for the June quarter should date back to the July announcement. I put that seriously to honourable gentlemen opposite. It is not a matter of what has happened before. It is the role and prerogative of government to reform. Since the era of indexation has emerged in this country, all of us have become more aware of the need periodically to update benefits. 
This should apply to pensions as much as it should apply to average weekly earnings in Australia. If this has not been discovered before that is no reason why, in 1 976, the government of the day ought not to acknowledge this principle. The honourable member for Petrie is loud in his opposition to this and that should be noted by the pensioners in his electorate. There are many pensioner organisations strongly advocating the course I have just put to the House. There are many thousands of pensioners, hundreds of thousands, who resent the fact that the Government has deprived them of benefits which are their just due. All pensioners will recall the election policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 November last when he said: 
The real value of pensions will be preserved. 
He went on to say: 
Spending on essential education, health and welfare programs will be protected against inflation. 
That was the promise made by the Prime Minister of this country, yet we find that indexed pension increases are lagging  Vh  months behind the scheduled date of increase while that same inflation factor is allowed insidiously to eat away the real value of pensions. The Government is deliberately withholding these indexed increases. 
I want to mention an anomaly concerning dependants. In my view, if it is good enough to have the objective of preserving the value of pensionsnot that it has been fulfilled altogetherwhy not seek to preserve the value of allowances paid to the dependants of pensioners, pensioner's allowances generally. There are a number of them. The allowance paid to dependent children is to remain at $7.50 a week. The guardian's allowance in respect of a child under 6 years is to remain at $6 a week. Other categories of allowances are to remain at $4 a week. The supplementary benefit paid to the most needy of eligible pensioners who pay rent is to remain at $5 a week. If there is anybody who deserves consideration it is the people I mention. All these people have a justifiable grievance against the Fraser Government which continues to display callous indifference to their circumstances. 
I want to mention the case of certain recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits. There is no increase in single unemployment or sickness benefit payable to persons under 18 years of age. Honourable members opposite will seek to justify that situation because it has not always taken place automatically in the past. However, it is time they recognised that they now form the Government; they have to take responsibility for these matters. This situation may not present great hardship to all young people, especially those with families capable of supporting them, but for many others very real hardship results. After all, a young man of 18 years wears the same kind of shoes, the same kind of clothes and eats the same if not more than his father, and if he wants to travel to look for a job he pays the same fares. Obviously he will need the same kind of increase. Maybe there is a case to distinguish between people who are in an effective family dependency situation and those who are not, but honourable members opposite ought to take on board the fact that a large number of young unemployed and sick people are very seriously disadvantaged as a result of the ommission of increases in this legislation. 
I also want to talk about the new income test to determine pension entitlements. This has been a political issue in this Parliament for decades. I remember that back in the 1950s a former honourable member representing Port Adelaide,  Mr Bert  Thompson, was probably the first person to discover that there should be some comparable relationship, on a ten to one ratio, between assets and income. He discovered at that time that insurance companies would allow a pensioner to divest himself or herself of assets for the purpose of gaining income. The effect of the system was that if a pensioner put $1,000 into an insurance company, he or she, in consideration of the expected remaining period of life, would be paid $100 for that $1,000 each year. So a ten to one ratio- or interchangeability- was established which facilitated the concept of the merged means test. There is nothing new in what is being proposed at present. The new income test to determine pension entitlements is a concept attributed, in the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  to Professor Ronald Henderson. In his speech the Minister said: 
Honourable members will recall the comments made by Professor Ronald Henderson in his first main report on poverty where he considered that the existing means test which determines eligibility includes 'a treatment of assets which is a relic of far less generous days', and he recommended that the treatment of asset incomes for pension purposes should be no different from the treatment of other incomes. 
That statement in fact is a half statement. It leaves a great deal of Professor Henderson's comments unstated. In order to put the matter right I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  that portion of Professor Henderson's report headed 'Conversion from a means test to an income test'. I might say that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  did give me approval to do so. 
-It has been an astounding afternoon. I suppose one can understand that new members who have been here for only a short time, and who have very limited prospects of being here much longer, are not going to take the trouble to research the facts of situations. I refer especially in this context to the honourable member for George. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)  - Order! Does the honourable member mean the honourable member for St George. 
-Yes, I meant the honourable member for St George. I doubt that I have ever heard a speech which contained so many inaccuracies, but what surprised me most of all was that the honourable member engaged in such a reckless attack upon his own Government. I would have thought that his electoral situation is precarious enough. I think it very unwise of him to put himself in a difficult position with his own party so that his pre-selection might be in doubt as well. He attacked the fact that in the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on 20 May last, the famous economic statement, the announcement was made that for the first time in Australia's history all pensioners' income was to be subjected to taxation. The honourable member for St George and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  were very agitated in their expressions of concern about the Treasurer's announcement. 
The history of this matter, as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  indicated already, is that when the means test was lifted by the Labor Government in respect of pensioners over 70 years of age, as a prelude to lifting the means test for pensioners generally, the sensible view was taken that if wealthy or affluent people were to receive pensions which were free of the means test those pensions obviously should be subjected to taxation. Is the honourable member for St George, the noisy, boisterous and sometimes rude and vulgar member for St George, going to contend with that when wealthy people receive an age pension, that pension should not be subjected to taxation? I doubt that even he would suggest that course. 
It was the intention of the Labor Government to then go ahead and extend the concept of the means test free pension to people of 69 years of age by 1 July this year. Regrettably the coup of 11 November prevented that happening. Of course, by this time we would have gone on to the second phase and eliminated the means test in respect of people of 68 years of age. But clearly, there is a need to subject aged pensions to taxation when those pensions are free of the means test. I understand from the interjections of the honourable member for St George that he does not want that to happen. If that does not happen it would mean that ordinary working people will be paying more taxation to enable rich people to receive age pensions. The honourable member had better make his position very clear. What he is saying is in opposition to the Government's announcement of 20 May that all pensions should be subject to taxation. It was not the Labor Government which subjected invalid pensions or widows' pensions to taxation; it was the Government which the honourable member for St George supports. 
I want to refer to some other matters for which the Government has to bear responsibility. I am especially concerned about the attack on the recipients of the unemployment benefit. No one has been more stigmatised and harassed during the period that this Government has been in office than the people receiving the unemployment benefit. A new strict work test and screening process has been introduced. Younger unemployed people are forced to move away from their homes to take jobs or are deprived of the benefit. A 6-week waiting period for benefit has been introduced in respect of people who voluntarily terminate employment. This is rigorously applied regardless of the circumstances. I know of one case of a girl who was the subject of overtures by her employer and decided she could no longer tolerate the situation. Even in those circumstances she was penalised because she Volutarily terminated her employment. Even the failure to receive award conditions or an employer's immoral behaviour to a female employee do not constitute a defence against this embargo. To continue receiving unemployment benefit applicants are forced to periodically hand deliver income statements to the local Commonwealth Employment Service office. There have been organised mass raids on unemployed people and the Commonwealth Police have briefed departmental officers on investigation and interrogation techniques. The number of staff assigned to field work detection of the so called dole bludger has been increased. In addition, it is a favorite pastime of Government spokesmen to cast doubt over the worthiness of women to receive supporting mothers benefit. In some States there has been a rash of complaints against prying investigations by field officers about the nature of relationships which supporting mothers have with male friends. 
In so many other respects there has been a very serious assault. The Fraser Government, after almost completing its first year in office, appears to have set a strategic course designed to make welfare a dirty word in the community. Community resentment has been fostered against the poor, against the unemployed and against the supporting mothers I have mentioned. Undoubtedly the best example is the Government orchestrated campaign against dole bludgers. There have been blatant attempts to convey the idea that the poor are poor because of their own behaviour, that the unemployed are all bludgers and that all supporting mothers are promiscuous. The fact of the matter is that there has been a multi-pronged assault against the concept of welfare since this Government has been in office. The first assault came in the area of pharmaceutical benefits, and I am pleased to see the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  at the table. There were no fewer than 168 benefits struck off the free medical list. Prescription charges were increased from $ 1 .50 to $2. 
-That is probably the worst example. Asthmatic children are deprived of milk substitutes, and despite the incessant petitioning that has been going on in this Parliament for months nothing has been done to redress that grievance. Subsidised pharmaceutical benefits were abolished, resulting in the costs' of benefits rising from 75c to $2. We well remember the fiasco about hearing aids. A charge for hearing aids was announced and then withdrawn under pressure 5 days later- an unnecessary exercise demonstrating lack of planning. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I remind the honourable gentleman that the debate is on the Social Services Amendment Bill and that he should return to it after a passing reference. 
-On all these matters we have seen a policy of curtailment and cuts and now in respect of the measures before the Parliament we can see that the Government still has this obsession against underprivileged people. Worse still is the Government's decision to subject all pensions to taxation, and the honourable member for St George who sits there in his back seat should take away that look of cynicism and accept responsibility for a development which has caused a great deal of concern and deprivation among a large number of people. 
-The estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development show how the Fraser Government has downgraded the range of initiatives taken under the Department of Urban and Regional Development by the Labor Government. In 1974-75 expenditure was $378m. In 1975-76 it rose to $408m. For the current financial year the estimate is $256.2m- a drop of $152m. That, in itself, speaks volumes. The present Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)not  a bad fellow in many respects- is suffering the indignity of presiding over the Australian Government's abdication of its responsibilities. It is winding down initiatives and systematically erasing from the statute book the record of the Labor era of initiatives and reform. It is very sad that this Department is the biggest loser in money terms among all Commonwealth departmentsand many of them have lost a great deal of money in this Budget. A positive approach by the Government to its obligations could advantage the environment, housing and quality of life of present and future Australian generations. 
The honourable member who preceded me talked about how people wanted to get their tax money back and the like. But no matter what they get back in terms of their tax money, they are unable to provide road systems, for example, transport systems, sewerage services and other public services. Only governments can do that. It is this Government's abdication in that area which is going to cause enormous deprivation. I think of the housing area. The coalition's manifesto on housing which was dramatically unveiled last November promised assistance to home buyers, expanded opportunities for special and disadvantaged groups, provision for rental accommodation, lower interest rates, flexible mortgage repayments, stabilised land costs and access to housing finance on reasonable terms. Now there is a cavalcade of broken promises if you ever saw one. The hopes of homeseekers have been dashed and destroyed by sheer government inertia. Finance for State welfare housing programs has been reduced in real terms by 13 per cent in this Budget. Finance for Aboriginal housing has fared even worse with a reduction of 1 5 per cent. 
Tax deductibility was referred to by the previous speaker. Tax deductibility for mortgage interest rates is now only to be available for the first 5 years of home ownership. Most of the people who have been receiving this benefit are now going to miss out from here on. The Australian Housing Corporation which was designed to assist homeseekers to bridge the deposit gap and meet repayments is to be abolished altogether. The $25m that had been allocated for it has been dissipated. The growth centre program also referred to by the previous speaker is barely kept alive on a $19.1 m budget compared with $60m under Labor. The Land Commission objectives of assembling cheap land for homeseekers have been stultified by a Budget reduction of more than $33m. Broken promises just litter the landscape in the area of housing, urban affairs and construction. 
The Minister for Construction is interjecting. The promise which he made and which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made on behalf of the present Government was clear and concise. This is what the Treasurer said: 
Economies can and will be made in Government spending without disrupting essential programs or programs for which contracts have already been let. 
The sequel to that promise was the announcement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in May last that contracts worth $60m were to be cancelled. I do not think the Minister would cavil at what I am saying. Next we have the question of sewerage also referred to by the preceding  speaker.  The Budget reduced expenditure on sewerage by half- a 50 per cent reduction on the national sewerage program or a 70 per cent reduction in real terms. Then the pipeline construction program was cut by 43.4 per cent. The total capital works program was slashed by $ 127m. They are figures which are explicitly set out in the Budget papers. No wonder the construction industry is languishing. No wonder armies of building tradesmen are out of work. No wonder young building apprentices are losing their jobs in droves. No wonder this year's apprenticeship intake is down by close to 10 000, and that hundreds of young school leavers line up for every job that is available. Even the Minister's own Department has the poorest record in respect of apprenticeship intake in living memory. So we have these hypocritical attitudes on the part of honourable members opposite. Look at what the Real Estate Institute of Australia had to say in its newsletter of 18 August in respect of housing. It said: 
Non-dwelling construction activity has slumpted dramatically and the bottom may not yet have been reached . . . The only light on the horizon is for States to alter their priorities and initiate capital works from their untied funds but even this would involve a considerable time before public sector non-dwelling construction picked up. 
That is a very different story from the one put by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman). 
-I am quoting the Real Estate Institute of Australia and its newsletter of 18 August, which must have been sent to the Minister. It says: 
The Budget has no additional incentives for home ownership. 
It also says: 
It was disappointing that the Budget did not recognise the serious lack of investment in residential rental property. There were no incentives, such as a depreciation allowance, for this form of investment. 
So it goes on- 4 pages of it. It is an indictment of this Government from what is traditionally the friend of the Government- the Real Estate Institute of Australia. With cruel cynicism, a gigantic confidence trick has been mounted in mouth watering terms about masses of money for a 3 -year rolling program for aged persons homes. In fact, project subsidies have been reduced from $4 for $1 to only $2 for $1. The allocation has been slashed from $70m in Labor's last Budget to only $45m. This broken promise leaves languishing a backlog of 700 aged persons homes projects valued at $340m for 25 000 waiting aged persons. This new, naive Ministerdecent enough as he is- is having the wool pulled over his eyes about these matters. This Minister, who can account for himself in terms of verbosity, does not appear to know that his Department and all these great public services are being slashed. 
I have referred to the expenditure on growth centres being slashed from $72m to $3 9m. The Glebe estate allocation has been cut in half. The Minister knows what that is about because he has received on the subject a deputation of which I was a member. So it goes on. The National Estate program has been mutilated. The area improvement program has been cut from $15m to $600,000. It does not matter what one looks at, whether it is essential conservation programs, air quality monitoring programs, soil conservation studies or the Botany Bay environmental project. Every one of those Budget estimates associated with the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Construction has been the subject of some savage curtailment. I express concern that the public area for which the Minister is responsible is being denied and that many people and many communities will be deprived of the opportunity of a decent way of life. The quality of life is to be impaired because of the sacrifices which the Minister has allowed to occur. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that all those doctors who bulk bill for their patients will soon receive a total income increase of  22'h  per cent? Will this result from the Government's recent decision to allow them to charge for the 1 5 per cent gap between the Medibank rebate and the scheduled fee, in addition to the  Vh.  per cent increase which all doctors will receive from I 
January next? Do these increases indicate an attitude of responsible restraint or will they aggravate wage earners subjected to wage indexation and increased tax and health insurance charges? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the establishment of a computer based statistical system to assist the Aboriginal Legal Service to define its priorities as referred to on page 1 6 of the Annual Report of the Department for 1974-75. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What price was paid by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the acquisition of 'Glenville', the 2145 hectare station at Mungindi, N.S.W. which is to be used as an Aboriginal shearing school. 
What is the nature and value of (a) stock, (b) buildings, (c) fencing, (d) plant and equipment, (e) pasture improvements and ( f) water bores and storage. 
Who was the vendor of 'Glenville'. 
Was the purchase recommended by any senator or member, if so, by whom. 
What other properties were considered for acquisition for the purpose of the Aboriginal shearing school. 
On whose advice did the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission rely when determining the property's suitability for purchase. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In respect of each Aboriginal Housing Association: (a) what was the level of funding in 1975-76; and (b) what funds are to be provided in 1976-77. 
-The affluent and uncaring honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has demonstrated his complete indifference about the needs of welfare housing in Australia. Moreover, his speech was notable not for what he knows about housing but for what he obviously does not know. I think he should be reminded of the fact that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  moved an amendment, the purpose of which was to indicate that there was a deficiency in funds for welfare housing. The honourable member disparaged the  Deputy  Leader for putting forward a contention along those lines. I doubt if the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  would have done that because I know that on previous occasions the Minister has indicated that there is a great need for additional funds. When one takes into account the fact that something like 106 000 people around Australia comprise the waiting lists of the various State housing authorities and that many more would be added to that list if people thought they had a chance of getting a house in a reasonable time, one does not need much more evidence of the need for additional funds for welfare housing. If one takes into account the long waiting period to which people are subjected, one would support the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
The second point in the  Deputy  Leader's amendment was that the distribution as between the various States does not recognise the resource capabilities in the various States. The third point stated that the distribution does not pay due regard to the nature and extent of the welfare housing needs as between the various States. Perhaps the honourable gentleman might like to explain in the Committee stage of the debate why it is that the States of Queensland and Western Australia have had their allocations increased while on the other hand the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, where the housing problem is said to be of more serious dimensions, have not had their allocations increased. It seems to me, after consideration of those facts, that the proposition put by the  Deputy  Leader is completely reasonable. All we heard from the honourable member for La Trobe was the old cliche ridden type of speech, which I believe is quite unbecoming from someone who takes such a place of priority in the speaking list of the Liberal Party. 
Let me put the honourable member in the picture on this matter, The Government is bound by the S-year Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement which the Labor Government negotiated and concluded with the States in 1973. Under that Agreement the States have been provided with greatly increased financial allocations on the most reasonable terms to finance housing for low income earners. The period of repayment is 53 years and the interest rate is 4 per cent in respect of advances to State housing authorities and 4'/2 per cent in respect of the home builders' account, from which funds are allocated to the terminating building societies. Eventually funds go out to the home purchaser at 53/4 per cent from those terminating building societies. The Minister has pointed out that this Bill allocates $375m to the States, about which he said in his second reading speech: 
This is $ 10.4m more than was made available in 197S-76 and is 70 per cent higher than the level of advances in 1973-74, the first year of operation of the Agreement. 
Let me put this historical sequence of events in its authentic and revealing perspective for the benefit of the honourable member for La Trobe. Even before the new housing agreement was concluded in 1973, the Labor Government advanced $6.6m to enable the States to commence before 30 June 1974 additional homes for letting to low income earners. The 1973 agreement was the beginning of a new era in housing for the under-privileged. Under the provisions of the agreement, a record $2 18.65m was allocated to the States in 1973-74, a 26 per cent increase over the previous year's allocation of $169.8m. Of course, what I am talking about in that context is the last allocation by the Liberal-National Country Party Coalition on the one hand and the allocation by the Labor Government in its first year of office on the other hand. 
For 1 974-75 the allocation was $3 1 8m, almost double the amount available under the LiberalNational Country Party Government in 1 972-73. In 1975-76, the allocation was increased to $364.6m- an effective $375m, as Labor's Treasurer explained in bis Budget speech. He said: 
Bearing in mind the $ 10.4m advanced in June on the basis that it would be taken into account in this year's allocation, we are thus maintaining advances in 1975-76 at the greatly increased 1974-75 level and well above the $2 18.6m allocated in 1973-74. 
In essence, therefore, there is no increase this financial year in money terms. In real terms, given the Budget's predicted level of inflation of 12.4 per cent, there is an effective reduction to that extent. The plain fact is that the State housing authorities have less purchasing power this financial year in the face of rising building costs, in the face of increased demand - 
-I would like the honourable gentleman to verify the contention that he made. He may say that the rate of increase has moderated or something like that. But it is an absurd proposition to suggest that building costs have come down. I repeat what I said: The plain fact is that the State housing authorities have less purchasing power this financial year in the face of rising building costs, increased demand and a serious downturn in the home building industry. Except for the Labor initiative taken in 1973, which pegged the interest rate down to bedrock level of 4 per cent per annum over the 53-year repayment period, State housing commissions would by now be out of business. They are not my remarks. I have been at gatherings where directors of State housing authorities have said that the innovation of the Labor Government was the greatest bonanza for the public housing authorities. They are extremely grateful that they were assisted to survive in the difficult period that followed the flooding of the market with money by the Liberal-National Country Party Government in the period that preceded the election of the Labor Government. 
The Liberal-National Country Party concept, which Labor's agreement replaced, provided for an interest rate not of 4 per cent but of 1 per cent less than the bond rate. Of course, with the longterm bond rate now being in the vicinity of 10.2 per cent, that would mean that low income families renting or buying housing commission homes would pay approximately 9.2 per cent or maybe 5 per cent more interest. So all rents and sale prices would have soared to astronomical levels well in excess of the consumer's paying capacity. Under this Bill, as I have mentioned, 3 States are allocated the same amounts as they received for the previous financial year, regardless of changes in need, the state of the industry in those States or the level of unemployment in the building trades. The 3 States have been deprived of additional funds this financial year. None is undeserving. But the State experiencing the greatest difficulty and obviously due for a substantial increase is New South Wales. Everybody acknowledges that. I believe that the Minister, even by his silence, would acknowledge that New South Wales is the crisis element of housing. He is not even silent. He is prepared to nod his head in acquiescence. 
It is a fair proposition to put that New South Wales should have received an increased allocation. Of course, the fact is that the Minister has to bear responsibility for the way in which the funds have been dispersed. I know his obligation under the agreement because I negotiated it. In addition to that, in subsequent periods I talked to representatives of the States about their relative needs as the allocations were being drawn up. I was never in a position to give them everything they wanted. But finally I had to take the responsibility for what they received. Here we have a situation in which a State- New South Wales- is suffering the most parlous conditions, in which there is massive unemployment in the housing industry, in which there are enormous problems confronting home seekers and the like and in which there is a very great obligation on the part of the State housing authority, and no increase in funds is provided. 
The Indicative Planning Council for the housing industry is one of the Labor Government's many innovations. I am pleased to see that its prowess and work is universally acknowledged and that the Minister has spoken eulogistically of its work. The Council has a difficult task. I think it is important to place credence in it to the extent of making some reference to the findings that it has provided in its report tabled in the House in August last year for the period 1976-77 to 1 978-79 in respect of housing in Australia. It was pointed out that in 1976-77- the current yearthe desirable level of dwelling completions would be 148 700 homes. The Council goes on to point out that the feasible level of dwelling completions is 138 400 homes, a shortfall of 10 000 homes in this year alone. Over the 3-year period commencing from 1 976-77, the Indicative Planning Council states that whereas the desirable level of housing completions for Australia would be 465 000 homes, it can only recommend goals of 428 000 homes. This is the case for a number of reasons which I will not have time to enunciate but which honourable members can read for themselves in the report. That is to say, in Australia over those 3 years there is to be a shortfall of 37 000 houses. 
The figures are equally revealing in respect to New South Wales. The desirable level of dwelling completions for the current financial year in New South Wales is 46 800 homes. The recommended goals are 39 000 and the forecast actually is for 32 000 homes. The differential between the forecast actual level and the desirable level is 14 800 homes. Over the 3-year period in New South Wales the difference between the desirable level of home construction- 147 000 homes- and the recommended goal- 126 000 homes- provides a shortfall of 2 1 000 homes. I mention those figures although I know that it is difficult to comprehend them in the way they are put or in any way they can be put simply to show that there is a problem of very  serious proportions in New South Wales. Of course there are many parts of the report that make reference to the problem in that State. At page 5 of the report, under the heading 'New South Wales' it is stated: 
New South Wales is in by far the worst position; the present capacity of the industry is well below what it was some years ago and well short of the desirable level; and expected construction activity is substantially below the recommended goals. 
I mention that statement to support my case that additional funds could have been made available to that State this year. This is so even if the total allocation under the agreement had not been increased and the increase had been at the expense of some other State. There is obviously a case for New South Wales to receive more money on this occasion. I might add that there is nothing unusual about varying the allocation for various States. I was required to do this from time to time, having regard to the unused construction capacity and to the demand that was measured and upon which advice was provided by State authorities and by the Department of Housing and Construction as it was then called. The report goes on: 

 Major efforts are also needed to solve the problem of suitably developed land in the Sydney region. The high cost and poor location of much of the available land relative to employment opportunities and community amenities is likely to prevent the achievement of the desirable levels of construction for some time to come. 
To ease the structural land problem in Sydney the Council urges that the Commonwealth Government explore a wide range of issues with State and local governments and industry. 
The report goes on to advocate decentralisation, regional development and matters of that kind. I mention as an aside that it seems peculiar that in a situation like that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development is presiding over a situation where allocations for land commissions have been cut by $28.9m in the Budget that has been debated recently. 
-Yes, I shall mention the matter that the honourable member for Port Adelaide has just raised in a moment or two. I am simply making the point that in the face of these recommendations by the Indicative Planning Council that special attention be given to the land problems in the Sydney region, we have cut that allocation for the land commissions from $54.4m to $25.5m-a reduction of $28.9m. The Minister obviously has something to answer for in respect of these matters. 
I believe that a lot can be done to improve the housing agreement. The housing agreement does not represent my ultimate aspirations about housing. It is an agreement which represented the best deal I could get with the States. Nevertheless, it does provide for some extremely great benefits. One of them was that we set out to preserve a stock of rental housing. We took that attitude because it was realised that houses were being sold off at a massive rate in the areas close to the cities and people of low income were being forced out onto the perimeter of the cities where travelling costs were high and where travelling time was long. The important need- this was recognised by most of the States, especially New South Wales- was to retain a stock of housing commission rental homes so that people could have the opportunity of obtaining low rental housing while they saved a deposit and got a loan from a building society or some other similar authority. The contention has often been made that the restrictions on income levels which were referred to by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  should be lifted. Of course the qualifying income level is low. To receive a housing commission loan one has to have an income under 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. Allowances are made for a person with two or more children. In my view they are very modest and inadequate allowances. The people applying for loans from a terminating building society are not eligible if their income is in excess of 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. Unless the Government makes more funds available, it is useless extending that particular limit because it will only extend the queue. There will be more people fighting over the limited resources that the Government is making available. There are plenty of takers now for housing commission homes being built around Australia. To my mind much more has to be done than is represented by the potential of the housing agreement. I think the potential of the Australian Housing Corporation is something that should be explored. I see the Minister shrug his shoulders in a state of nonchalance. As the undertaker of housing and regional development the Minister is about to wind up the Australian Housing Corporation. 
asked the Minister for Abor- iginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In respect of each pre-school substantially conducted for the benefit of Aboriginal children, (a) what was the level of funding in 1975-76 and (b) what funds are to be provided in 1976-77. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Can the Minister confirm or deny widely published reports that his Government intends to renegotiate the Commonwealth and States Housing Agreement with a view to increasing interest rates for welfare housing, raising interest rates for defence service homes, selling off land for defence service homes estates and doubling the period of service to establish eligibility for defence service homes? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the expenditure on Government House for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
What proportion of this amount related to (a) wages and salaries, (b) overtime, (c) food and (d) beverages. 
-by leave- If committees of inquiry were responsible for policy initiatives or financial support for Aboriginal people, a great deal of progress would be made in this field. Nevertheless, the Opposition does not want to be churlish about receiving the report which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has tabled. What he has done, in effect, is to endorse yet another Labor initiative. In February 1973 the Labor Government first conceived the idea of a National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. My colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who was then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, presided over that Committee at its opening session. 
Subsequently, in December 1973, the first meeting of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, as it was then known, was held. There has been a great deal of criticism of that body since December 1973 when the 41 members of the Committee formally came together. One would not want to contend that the criticism was inappropriate, but it was also to be expected that such a newly constituted body, comprising people with varying degrees of experience- and, if you like, inexperience- would run into difficulties. 
I think the honourable member for Wills, when first contemplating this idea, had regard for the fact that in many parts of Australia the Aboriginal tribal system might have been the best system from which to derive some kind of authority in Aboriginal affairs. Regrettably the strength of the Aboriginal tribal system does not maintain any consistency across the length and breadth of Australia. Running from a very strong content in some areas it diminishes in the Aboriginal communities which live in fringe situations, where the tribal system does not count a great deal. The honourable member for Wills, as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, was confronted at that time with the need to contrive a process which would enable Aboriginal spokesmen to speak to the Government on behalf of Aboriginal people in an advisory capacity. As could be imagined, when those 41 people came together there were examples of the tribal people, who in some instances were unable to speak English with any fluency, being disadvantaged by the more sophisticated Aboriginal people from the cities, who were almost as effective as manipulators in the political area as some honourable gentlemen opposite. So some of these spokesmen were disadvantaged. 
If there was any total disadvantage to come out of the experience of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee it was probably through the lack of a secretariat. These spokesmen came together from time to time and had very little difficulty in identifying areas of Aboriginal deprivation and in identifying the positive initiatives which should be taken in respect of Aboriginal Affairs, but in the matter of communicating their decisions to the Government there was the deficiency represented by the absence of staff or a properly constituted secretariat I have had the good fortune to talk with the NACC on several occasions. Towards the end of 1975, as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I firmly faced up to the problems which the NACC was encountering. As the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs would be aware by now, I assured the NACC at that point that I would be recommending to the Government of the day the acceptance of an NACC constitution which had been modified over a period of consultation. I had also made arrangements to rationalise the budget so that the NACC could set itself up with a secretariat, so that it could engage in a number of conferences at the national level and so that it could set about the process of undertaking regional conferences. 
If the prowess of the former Government- the Labor Government- is to be demonstrated in respect of this matter I suppose that it might be shown in connection with the reference which I, as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, submitted to the Remuneration Tribunal. It is interesting to note that a recommendation has been made in this report in the sense that the political nature of being a member of the NACC should be acknowledged. Of course, the Remuneration Tribunal has taken this matter into consideration and has provided a salary for NACC members of $8,925 a year. It has also approved of electorate allowances ranging from $2,500 to $3,750, with additional allowances of $500 for executive members. It has also incorporated in the schedule of remuneration a travelling allowance of $41 a day. So under those arrangements the NACC was very firmly constituted. Moreover, the Labor Government took the initiative to provide NACC members with an electorate office, to furnish the office and to staff it with an electorate secretary. So the Opposition naturally is enthusiastic that the Hiatt Committee has now taken steps to endorse this very significant development in Aboriginal affairs, as initiated by the Labor Government. 
I do not think I should allow this opportunity to pass without taking note of the fact that the report has recommended the establishment of a statutory Commission for Aboriginal Development by 1980. This, of course, could be an extremely important milestone in Aboriginal affairs. But a lot more will need to be said about it before it can be expected to receive the imprimatur of either the Aboriginal people or the Opposition. It is noted, for example, that the  Chairman  of the proposed statutory Commission for Aboriginal Development is to be the Secretary of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It has been implied that there is to be a dual approach to Aboriginal problems. On the one hand there is to be, apparently, a continuation of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and on the other there is to be a new statutory committee which is to be composed predominantly of Aboriginal people- some 9 Aborigines or Torres Strait Islanders, five of whom will be delegates from a re-formed National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. I just say to the Minister that at first glance there seems to be all the propects of a serious problem developing if the Government contemplates for one solitary moment that it can run Aboriginal affairs with both a Department of Aboriginal Affairs and a statutory commission. Obviously the 2 bodies would soon get on to a collision course. So, although the Minister may not have too much clear-cut objectivity in respect of this matter at the moment, I put it to him that unless he does develop a firm attitude he is certainly going to cause a rip-roaring controversy and that if he goes on to give effect to the idea of having a dual authority or 2 authorities then, of course, the results can be quite disastrous. 
The Opposition will be reading the Hiatt Committee 's report with great interest. We also acknowledge the very valuable service rendered by those distinguished people who were led by  Dr Hiatt-  all of whom are Aborigines. I must say, as one who gave evidence before the Committee, that I do not find myself at variance with the idea that the NACC should be continued, that it should be called a congress in the future instead of a consultative committee and that it should be supported to rationalise its activities on a State and regional basis. I commend to the Minister the idea that more should be done- for that matter more should have been offered by the Committeein regard to the secretariat needs of the NACC. I have noticed a comment in the Minister's speech to the effect that funds and staff should be provided for the NACC for the production of a quarterly newsletter and that consideration should be given to using community radio, films and video as a means of improving communications between NACC and the Aboriginal people. Far more than that is necessary. A considerable amount of the funds allocated for the purposes of the NACC ought to be directed to the provision of a secretariat. The Opposition welcomes the recommendation in general terms in that it implies an endorsement by a committee of inquiry of a positive initiative taken in respect of the Aboriginal people by the former Labor Government. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in the remarks he just made. I suggest to him that if he checks the minutes of the late 1975 meetings of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee he will establish that I gave an assurance to the NACC to the effect that I would be making such a reference. If he checks the records of his Department he will establish that I had set in train prior to 1 1 November the process which was given effect to in Remuneration Tribunal Determination No. 1976/8. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What increases were made in the various social security benefits paid in the years 1973, 1974 and 1975. 
What percentage of average weekly earnings were the benefits after each increase. 
What was the increase in he Consumer Price Index in the relevant period prior to each increase. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services: 
Which recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries, tabled on 1 April 1976, have not been implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services: 
1 ) Can the Minister say how many public libraries there are in Australia. 
What is the expenditure of these libraries on (a) annual recurrent expenditure and (b) acquisition of new works. 
What support does (a) the Federal Government and (b) each State Government through federal grants, give to public libraries. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) In which hospitals throughout Australia are renal units located. 
What progress has been made in the consideration of the needs of Wollongong for the possible establishment of a satellite renal unit. 
What volume of patient demand is required to justify placement of such a facility in the Wollongong region. 
What is the estimated volume demand in the Wollongong region. 
-Has the Treasurer seen a forecast by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of renewed international recession in the second half of 1977? Does he feel that in view of these changed international circumstances his Budget strategy, which assumed a gradual international recovery during 1977, is still relevant to Australia's needs? Will he undertake to implement a strategy which is in accordance with facts rather than dubious Treasury assumptions? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In which overseas Australian posts is one of the 3 senior positions held by a woman. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What assistance has been given to Life Saving Clubs and organisations in each of the last 10 years. 
What amounts have been given to individual clubs in each of the years 1971-72 to 1975-76. 
What amounts will be paid to individual clubs in 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In which overseas Australian posts is the position of (a) Head of Mission and (b) First Secretary not filled. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In which overseas Australian posts does the Head of Mission not speak the indigenous language? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What proportion of the gross domestic product was represented by (a) wages and (b) profits, interest and dividends during each of the last 20 years. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House just to say that the Opposition recognises that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  ought to have charge of these Bills; but we appeal to him to reconsider the proposition that there should be a general debate on the 3 cognate measures. Two of the 3 Bills are of the utmost significance- especially the Aborginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, which only today was the subject of some 42 Government amendments. Of course, in addition to that there is the consideration that the Opposition has probably in excess of 20 amendments to the Bill. Our responses are not fully developed at this stage. The complexities of the Bill are such that there is a great deal to be said for having separate debates. I put it to the Minister that, in view of the great interest in this legislation right around Australia, he might allocate more time for debate. In any event, he should separate the debates so that the significance of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill and the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill might be fully understood. 

 Mr VINER (Stirling-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs)- I will respond shortly to my friend, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  It is the desire of the Government to have a joint debate on these 3 cognate measures. I recall that, when the former Administration introduced its land rights Bill and councils and associations Bill, it sought to have a joint debate, which was proceeding at the time of the dissolution of the Parliament. Arrangements have been made between the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and his opposite number on the Opposition side that the debate on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill should proceed to the Committee stage and that then the debate should be adjourned until the resumption of the sitting of the House the week after next. That should give the Opposition ample time to consider its amendments. Together with the second reading debate that will proceed today, it will give the Opposition ample time to consider the Government's amendments and whatever the Opposition wishes to put forward during the Committee stage. 

 Mr VINER (Stirling-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement. 
-The events of the last minute or two have shown the very exceptional circumstances that apply to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. The fact of the matter is that there are 2 other Bills as well as that Bill now before the Parliament. The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, as has been indicated by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  is unusually complex. When all is said and done the Bill, which he introduced in June of this year, contains some 73 clauses. Today, by way of a second second-reading speech, the Minister has indicated his intentions to move, on behalf of the Government, some 42 amendments dealing with most complex and significant issues, some of which could be regarded as being even more important than the major tenets of the Bill itself. I do not believe that this is good enough. Here we have legislation which has been contemplated by the Parliament by the people and by the Aboriginal community over a number of years. It is just not good enough to have these important provisions sprung on us in this way. 
-I thank the Minister and the House. The recommendations of the second and final report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission which was presented by  Mr Justice  Woodward formed the basis of the Land Rights Bill that was introduced into the Parliament 13 months ago. Speaking during the second reading debate on the 1975 Bill the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  who was then spokesman on Aboriginal affairs for the then Opposition, sought to refer that Bill to a standing committee of the Parliament for a further report. That Bill, which was the result of IS months of investigation by  Mr Justice  Woodward and 18 months of consultation with Aboriginal groups, lapsed on the dissolution of the Parliament. It had been widely debated and generally accepted by Aboriginal communities throughout the Northern Territory. I just recall the fact that, despite the good intentions of the then Opposition to refer this whole matter to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, when it came into Government it did not seem to think that that was a good idea. Of course, that proposed Bill has never seen the light of day from the standpoint of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. So it is clear that honourable gentlemen opposite say different things when they are in Opposition and when they are in Government. 
In June last year, reacting to pressures from vested interests and in particular from the National Country Party dominated Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and the Australian Mining Industry Council, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  introduced a new, redrafted Bill with the same title. 
-The differences are vast and, as honourable members will note from the number of amendments to be moved by the Opposition, they are substantial. In the 5 months since the introduction of this legislation the Government has failed to initiate debate on the changes; rather, it undertook another bureaucratic study. I can understand the honourable member for Canberra liking that kind of process. We are told that the result of that examination of submissions is reflected in the amendments which are to be moved by the Government. That report, however, has not been tabled in the House; nor has it been made available to those persons who made submissions to the inquiry. We are expected- I am speaking for the whole Parliament now, not just the Opposition- to accept without question that this Government, which so shamelessly capitulated to the mining industry only last week, has stood firm on behalf of the Aboriginal people in relation to this Bill. If that is so, why not let the Australian people read the submissions and the report which was based on them? Let the Australian people decide whether the changes made to the Bill introduced last year by the Whitlam Government are acceptable. 
The most wide ranging and far reaching alterations to Labor's Bill relate to the transfer of legislative power from this Parliament to the 
Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. These powers include the control and declaration of protection of sacred sites, the control of entry to pastoral properties, the control of entry to Aboriginal lands and access to the sea adjoining Aboriginal lands. The Opposition opposes this transfer of power and, in particular, opposes the deletion of that clause of the 1975 Land Rights Bill which provided that this Parliament, through regulation, could override any Northern Territory legislation. This final provision followed directly on the recommendation made in paragraph 740 by  Mr Justice  Woodward, where he stated: 
It is important that the basic legislation of the Australian Parliament be protected in such a way that its provisions cannot be eroded by the effect of any Northern Territory Ordinance. 
The Opposition proposes to move in the Committee stage a number of amendments to reinstate the Australian Government's jurisdiction over these matters, as  Mr Justice  Woodward recommended and as the Australian people decided in the 1967 referendum. A further point of concern both to the Labor Opposition and to Aboriginal groups in the Northern Territory is the restriction on the functions of the land councils in the Northern Territory imposed by the 1 976 Bill. The 1975 Bill gave legal recognition to the already existing Northern and Central Land Councils established on the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Woodward. The new Bill gives wide discretionary powers to the Minister to set the boundaries and to limit the operation of land councils.  Mr Justice  Woodward, in paragraph 359 of his second report, recommended that land councils have power to: 
Co-ordinate and make claim to vacant Crown lands. 
Make representations to the Land Commission about priorities and expenditures of moneys for land purchase and land development. 
Issue entry permits to non-Aborigines visiting Aboriginal lands and arrange for Rangers and others to check the permit system is observed. 
The 1976 Bill eliminates these 3 specific functions. The important power to make representations about priorities and expenditure is deleted from the functions of the councils. The issue of entry permits is to be handled not by Aboriginal land councils but by the white, Darwin based, Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. This is, of course, despite the attitude to the contrary expressed during the debate on the 1975 Bill by the present Attorney-General and then spokesman on Aboriginal affairs. 
On perhaps the most important function of all- that of co-ordinating land claims- the Government has reverted to the provisions of the Labor Bill which followed  Mr Justice 
Woodward's recommendations. This function, which the land councils have been actively and successfully pursuing since their formation, will now be retained by them. I hope that the Minister will ensure that the additional funds which would have been made available to the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service for this function will now be made available to the councils. Obviously they will have very great difficulty in functioning and fulfilling these functions unless they are able to employ and deploy the expert personnel necessary to gain an active appreciation of these important matters. However, despite reverting to  Mr Justice  Woodward's original intention with regard to the land councils' co-ordinating role in land claims, this Bill has severely limited the range of claims which are to be heard by the Land Commissioner.  Mr Justice  Woodward proposed that an Aboriginal Land Commissioner be appointed to determine claims from Aboriginal people which were based not on traditional grounds but rather on need. In his second report he stated: 
The difficulties in which many of these people find themselves do arise from the loss of their traditional lands or the loss of their sense of Aboriginal identity caused by their mixed ancestry. Whatever their reasons for living in a town, it can certainly be said that most of the fringe dwellers of the cities have suffered more from the coming of white settlement than have those still living on reserves or cattle stations. 
-That is in the Woodward report. I am surprised that the honourable gentleman has not read it. These claims, which have been heard by the Interim Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Ward, whose reports have been widely accepted, are now to be heard by the Northern Territory Lands Board and not by the Commissioner. This is a complete abrogation of the recommendation of the Woodward Commission and of the spirit and intention of the 1975 Bill introduced by the Labor Government. An example of what will result can be seen in the claim of the Gurindjis. Their claim for land at Wave Hill began a decade ago. In August last year the then Prime Minister finally handed over leasehold title to part of their claim. The freehold title was to pass with the royal assent to the Bill introduced last year. Under this Bill it seems that the Gurindjis could be denied their land. Ten years after their claim was first lodged it is to go to yet another tribunal, from what I gather from the Minister's remarks this afternoon. 
Then there is the question of Tanami. The Walpiri people of Yuendumu and Hooker Creek are to suffer a similar indignity. The Minister has stated that despite a recommendation by  Mr Justice  Woodward in paragraph 150 of his report that the Tanami Desert people be included in any transfer of land to Aboriginal ownership because of the close traditional ties to the Walpiri people- the largest tribe in the Northern Territoryand despite the inclusion of the Tanami Desert in schedules of both the 1975 and 1976 Bills, it is now to be excluded. The land in question has been subject to continued attempts to transfer it to a reserve for the Walpiris since 1935, and its inclusion would be seen as a major measure of good faith by an administration which has ignored its claims for 41 years. The amendment to exclude this land should and will be seen as a gross insult to a people who suffered the most recent massacre in Australia's history when 3 1 of their tribe were murdered in revenge killings in 1928. Honourable members opposite, if they accept nothing else, should fight to retain this land in the schedule. I commend it to them and to the House. 
-It is in regard to mining that perhaps the most intensive lobbying campaign has been conducted and the most extensive changes made to the 1975 Bill. Honourable members and the public will have noticed the huge advertising campaign undertaken by the Australian Mining Industry Council, allegedly costing over $ lm, to put across its point of view that Aborigines should not retain the right to veto mining on their land. These claims have been rejected not only by the Aboriginal groups but also by members of the Government Parties  -Senator Chaney, Senator Bonner  and  Senator Baume  - 
. . . who wrote letters to the newspapers and made their position clear in respect of this matter. One of the most obnoxious clauses of the Government's original Bill- that permitting a secret inquiry into whether mining on Aboriginal land is 'in the national interest'- is to be removed. The new clause, recognising the overwhelming vote of the 1967 referendum to give the Parliament legislative power in Aboriginal affairs, wil reinstate that provision in the 1975 Bill which makes any such declaration subject to disallowance by either House of this Parliament. 
The new Bill, however, provides that Aborigines - 
I have an amendment relating to clause 30, which reads in part: 
Where the Minister approves any by-laws, he shall cause the by-laws to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the giving of his approval. 
If any by-laws are not laid before each House of the Parliament in accordance with sub-section (5), the by-laws shall be void and of no effect. 
Where any by-laws have been laid before a House of the Parliament in accordance with sub-section (5) of this section, sub-sections (4), (5) and (5A) of section 48 of the  Acts Interpretation Act  1901-1973 apply in relation to those bylaws as if they were regulations. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clauses (5), (6) and (7). 
The issue is a quite elementary one. It is to this effect: The Bill proposes that in relation to Aboriginal councils which make by-laws there are to be disallowance provisions. Sub-clauses (S), (6) and (7) apply to those disallowances. Sub-clause (5) states: 
Where the Minister approves any by-laws, he shall cause the by-laws to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the giving of his approval. 
Sub-clause (6) goes on to provide that if the bylaws are not laid before each House of Parliament they shall be void and of no effect. Subclause (7) indicates that these processes are to be treated under the Acts Interpretation Act as if they were regulations. The simple proposition which the Opposition is seeking to put in relation to this question is that it is unnecessary. The Minister, who is very fond of talking about how inept other Ministers might be at this point in a debate, may not now have the benefit of a departmental spiel on this matter. I wonder whether he can give an effective account of why he has used this sledge-hammer to knock over an infinitesimal gnat. 
We have a proposition that Aboriginal councils shall make by-laws, and shall make them about matters of very little consequence. They shall be made in respect of the charges to' be made for garbage services, or to prevent the destruction of trees in the village council square, or to regulate the use of water or electricity supply services. They are the kinds of things that are done all round Australia by 800-odd local government authorities. Big Brother does not stand over the local government authorities in Australia, the shires and municipal councils. These sorts of provisions do not apply even in respect of pasture protection boards. Why has the Minister decided to invoke this heavyhanded paternalism in respect of Aboriginal councils? After all, one of the Bills we have been debating tonight is the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill, which is designed to legalise and incorporate Aboriginal councils. They are not councils which are sycophantic or subjective or second grade. They have the same kind of status as all the other bodies which make by-laws for white Australians all over the country. It so happens that in this matter for some unaccountable reason the Minister wants these by-laws brought into the Parliament and tabled in the House of Representatives and the Senate. The sub-clause states: 
Where the Minister approves any by-laws, he shall cause the by-laws to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days ... 
I should like to know whether there is any justification for this proposition. One can hardly imagine why the Minister would want these bylaws tabled. One thinks of a little council in the 
Northern Territory, a council in a town with perhaps 60 people or 70 people. The people are gathered together to render a fairly infinitesimal but basic service unto one another. They elect their little handful of councillors, who decide on these fundamental things which are not even of importance in terms of the decisions taken by the councils of the City of Sydney or the City of Melbourne or the great shires and municipalities, none of whom have to come to this Parliament for approval of their by-laws or for a checking over of their by-laws by the Minister. One does not have to labour the point. Is there any justification for this provision? The Opposition puts in all fairness that it is excessive heavyhandedness, paternalism, unnecessary, not likely to render a service, probably not even likely to be treated effectively by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances which looks after those matters. Because up to this point, the Minister has made no effort to justify this attempt to subject the councils to this process, the Opposition believes that the best thing to do with this rubbish is to withdraw it altogether. I think it would be a fair thing if the Minister indicated his good faith and agreed to the Opposition's amendment. 
I intend to move the motion standing in my name which has the effect of amending sub-clause 2 of clause 7, which reads: 
1 ) The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, cause to be laid before each House of the Parliament a report on the operation of this Act during the year ending on that date. 
A report referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) shall include a statement setting out the amount paid under this Act to each State during the year to which the report relates. 
For the purposes of this section, the period commencing on the date of commencement of this Act and ending on 30 June 1977 shall be deemed to be a year. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has had a great day dropping things from great heights. He has been able to read to honourable member's carefully prepared and nurtured briefings which he has received from his Department. He reads them quite well. However, as he demonstrated just a short time ago he lacks the capacity to think on his feet. He was unable to find an answer for the last proposition I put to him. I hope he will be able to find an answer to the simple proposition I put to him now because it is quite elementary and well within his capacities. It is simply to this effect. Since the Minister has now adopted, if not cannibalised, proposals which I put to the Parliament in 1975 in respect of the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill following receipt of advice from the AuditorGeneral in his special report of March 1974, it is now proposed to have continuing legislative authority by which funds will be made available to the States for the purpose of implementing the program of assistance to Aboriginal people. 
This new development, this proposal for continuing legislation will obviate the need for similar legislation to be brought down on a periodic annual basis. The Minister is copying the proposal which I previously made that a report containing certain recommendations should be placed before the Parliament after 30 June each year. In sub-clause 2 of clause 7 references is made to the intention that the report shall include a statement setting out the amount paid to each State during the year to which the report relates. The Opposition is not antagonistic to that proposition. Obviously I should not be antagonistic to it since I breathed life into the concept when I was the Minister. But, after all, the Parliament will forego an annual opportunity of debating Aboriginal affairs. The Opposition contends that it might be reasonable that the Parliament might be treated to the consideration of being informed as to why these amounts were paid. The amendment is simply to that effect. I therefore move: 
At the end of sub-clause (2) add: and the purposes for which the amount was paid. 
If the amendment is adopted, sub-clause (2) of clause 7 will read: 
A report referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) shall include a statement setting out the amount paid under this Act to each State during the year to which the report relates and the purposes for which the amount was paid. 
I put it to the Minister that the Parliament might be well and truly entitled to have information to that effect. I hope that the Minister will not be able to find any good reasons why this amendment should not be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What grants were approved for Aboriginal housing associations in 1973-76. 
What grants have been appropriated for 1976-77. 
Which Aboriginal communities have applied for and been refused Government support to form a local autonomous housing association. 
Will the Government act to see that autonomous Aboriginal housing associations are protected and supported in their aims to provide adequate and suitable housing associations for Aboriginal people in their communities. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Was a directive issued to all Aboriginal legal services earlier this year. 
If so, (a) what was the content of the directive, (b) who authorised it and (c) what was the reason for it. 
What have been, and are expected to be, the ramifications of the directive (a) in the number of cases to be defended by Aboriginal legal services, (b) the number of matters turned down by the Aboriginal legal services and (c) the cost to Aboriginals who must seek alternative advice. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he recently announce the closure of the departmental area offices at Swan Hill and Morwell, Victoria and the withdrawal of community advisers and other staff. 
Were these closures justified on the grounds of significant progress in self-management by Aboriginal groups. 
Is it a fact that at Morwell not a single Aboriginal organisation has yet been funded as his Department regards none of the existing organisations as sufficiently viable, and is the position in Swan Hill similar. 
As both Aboriginal communities suffer serious unemployment, health and housing problems, will he give consideration to re-examining the situation. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there increasing disquiet about the ending of the freeze on alienation of vacant crown land in the Northern 
Territory on 3 1 December 1976, as evidenced by motions recently passed at the Northern Land Council and at the land rights meeting in Sydney attended by Aboriginal delegates from all over Australia. 
Will he give urgent consideration to extending the freeze for a period of 12 months after the passing of the Northern Territory Land Rights Bill later in 1 976. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) When and for what purposes did he last visit the United Kingdom. 
) When and for what purposes did he visit Scotland. 
Did he avail himself of transport provided by Lord Vestey to or from Heathrow Airport. 
Did he have any discussion on any matter with Lord Vestey; if so, when, where, and on what subject matter. 
5 ) How long did he spend with Lord Vestey at the latter 's expense in (a) Scotland and (b) elsewhere. 
What travelling expenses were paid for by Lord Vestey or his organisation. 
Will he provide details of each journey taken by him in the United Kingdom, indicating the time and date of the journeys and the cost of them. 
Will he also provide details of the places at which he stayed whilst in the United Kingdom indicating the cost of the accommodation and who paid for the accommodation. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) What gins were received by him whilst in the United Kingdom. 
Where any of these gifts directly or indirectly from Lord Vestey; if so, which gifts, and what is their value. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the State of New South Wales ever requested Federal financial assistance towards duplication of the Cronulla Sutherland railway line; if so, when were the requests made, and with what results. 
I should like to say briefly that the Opposition is happy to see the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  tidy up this legislation because only recently 48 amendments were introduced by the Government. It would have been extremely difficult to deal with the Bill with those amendments as well as the amendments of the Opposition. I should like to add that the Parliament has been disadvantaged further in this matter due to the fact that the consolidated Bill only recently has come into the hands of honourable members. Two copies of the Bill were available to the Opposition last Friday. If there is some difficulty in navigating the progress in the Committee stage of this debate it will be in consequence of the matter I have raised. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: "2. This Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation.". 
The reason for adopting this course is that whereas the Act is to come into operation on a date fixed by proclamation, as is mentioned in clause 2, clause 70 is to operate subsequently; not concurrently, but on a later date which is to be fixed for the purpose of sub-clause 1. Clause 70 relates to entry onto Aboriginal lands. This matter gives great concern to the Opposition and to Aboriginal communities all over Australia. Substantially it provides that a person shall not enter or remain on Aboriginal land except in accordance with the law of the Northern Territory. That is the essence of clause 70. When will the regulation be introduced in the Northern Territory? The position that will follow the passing of legislation is that Aboriginal people themselves will not be able to determine the question of entry onto Aboriginal land but at some time in the future the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly will be determining it.  Mr Justice  Woodward made recommendations on this matter. In paragraph 109 of the second report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission, under the heading 'Control of access to Aboriginal land', he stated: 
One of the most important proofs of genuine Aboriginal ownership of land will be the right to exclude from it those who are not welcome. The Land Councils believe that this principle should be supported by a permit system and I agree with them. I accept the Northern Land Council's view that the system should be administered by the officers of the Land Councils, who would, where necessary, consult with the local community and clan leaders before issuing a permit. 
But  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward is not on his own in expressing enthusiasm for this concept. In fact in the debate that occurred in November 1975 after the introduction by the Labor Government of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill the then spokesman for Aboriginal affairs, the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  had quite a bit to say on this matter. He said, as reported on page 2752 of  Hansard of  4 November 1975:  . . Aboriginal groups to which I spoke . . . were emphatic that they wanted to say who came on to their land. They did not want a remote land council telling them what to do and who was to enter their land. As far as I can understand the matter, they also wanted the right to say whether a person should come on, whether that person was an Aboriginal or not. 
Here we have a situation embellished by the support of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward and the former spokesman on Aboriginal affairs for the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. Yet in this legislation there has been a departure from that concept. Although it was intended that the function be administered by land councils and through them delegated to community councils, we will be substituting a situation which will have the effect that instead of the remote land councils making decisions, remote Darwin-based bureaucrats will be making them. 
We regard this matter with very grave concern. I know that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in his second reading speech indicated that guidelines are to be provided for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in respect to the laws it is to make on Aboriginal lands. In his statement on 17 November 1976 he said that traditional Aboriginal rights to enter Aboriginal lands must be provided for. He then went on to say: 
The leader of the Legislative Assembly and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  have assured me that the Territory legislation will be worked out in consultation with Aboriginals and with my involvement and agreement. 
It seems to me that to hoist the whole future of entry into Aboriginal land on such a vague assurance is a most unsatisfactory and even contemptuous way of treating this Parliament and this issue. One would go so far as to say that it represents an abrogation of responsibility on the part of this Government and the Parliament as well. 
Perhaps there will be no law at all. The possibility is that the Legislative Assembly might initiate some action about this matter. On the other hand, there is a possibility that no action at all will be instituted. The situation perhaps will be that anyone will be able to enter Aboriginal land. That situation could easily eventuate if the Assembly failed to take action. In terms of the referendum decision that was taken and which clothed this Parliament with power on this subject it is not good enough to bail out on a matter so important for Aboriginal people. As the former Opposition spokesman, the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  has said, wherever he sat people felt very strongly about this matter. Those members of the Parliament who are active in Aboriginal affairs would take an identical view. So it seems to me that this is an indication of the Government's intention to hand over the prerogative in this matter to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. If that does not represent white paternalism- in fact, if the whole proposition is for white people to determine who goes on Aboriginal land and if that also does not represent white paternalism- I doubt whether there is a meaningful definition of that phrase. For those reasons, the Opposition has moved its amendment. 

 -Mr Chairman, I seek leave to move the 4 amendments standing in my name in respect of this clause. 
-I thank the Minister and the Committee. 
I move: 
In the definition 'alienated Crown land', omit ', but does not include land in a town '. 
In the definition 'town ', omit ', and includes any area that, by virtue of regulations in force under that law, is to be treated as a town'. 
In the definition 'unalienated Crown land', omit ', but does not include land in a town '. 
Omit sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clause: 
A reference in this Act to the granting of a mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land shall be read as including a reference to the renewal of a mining interest. '. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to make some brief comment on amendments 2, 3 and 4 and possibly to speak at a later stage in respect of amendment 5. In relation to amendments 2, 3 and 4, the Opposition is very concerned that the intentions of  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Woodward, to include Aborigines who live in towns as being capable of having land granted to them have been circumvented by the provisions of this legislation. 
The Opposition believes that it should be possible to make grants of land available in towns for Aboriginal people. When all is said and done, can a town be proclaimed in respect of a group of Aboriginal people? Can a town be proclaimed over a community to exclude it from the definition and the provisions of this Bill so as to prevent people in the community from obtaining a grant of Aboriginal land? That is the issue which is at stake in respect of these matters. Can a community be designated under the laws of the Northern Territory as a town and so be excluded from the benefits of this legislation? In short, the purpose of these amendments is to give effect to the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward that the Aboriginal Land Commissioners have jurisdiction to make recommendations relating to grants of land for Aboriginals within towns. 
In his recommendations  Mr Justice  Woodward stated in paragraph 328 that planning for Aboriginals in towns must involve consulting them and determining their preferences. He recommended specifically in sub-paragraphs (v) and (vi) that Land Councils should make submissions to town planners and the Land Commissioners who, after investigation, should report to the Government on acquisition of necessary land for Aborigines in towns. Without these amendments a large number of Aboriginal families and communities will be excluded from the operation of this legislation and will be forced to go once again cap in hand to the Department of the Northern Territory which has led the opposition to the granting of land in towns and to the claims heard already by the interim Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Woodward. 
An example of this can be seen from the Alice Springs land claims where the Commissioner was ordered to stop his investigation of claims in which, in a preliminary report, he had rejected the arguments of the Department of the Northern Territory. In addition to holding this inquiry the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  announced that due to the economic situation no funds would be available for any site development for at least 12 months. In his report  Mr Justice  Woodward stated that most of the fringe dwellers of cities and towns have suffered more from the coming of white settlement than have those still living on reserves. He quoted from submissions from both the central and northern Land Councils to support his proposition. A large number of Aboriginal people living in towns will be deprived of the opportunity to obtain land under the provisions of this Bill unless the amendment is carried. 
In his report  Mr Justice  Woodward referred to the census conducted in 1971. In the greater Darwin area there were 2374 Aboriginal people living in towns. In Alice Springs the number was 1269. In Katherine it was 174 and in Tennant Creek 1 19. Just in those places there is an aggregation of some 4000 Aboriginal people.  Mr Justice  Woodward said, in effect, of these people- I will not quote all the provisions because I do not have time- that their problems were urgent and important and that they related to social welfare and urban development issues. He pointed out that they were the dispossessed victims who had lost traditional land and he said they had suffered more from white settlement than those on reserves or cattle stations. They were now squatters. They became attached to their land. They wanted to live on the land where they were now living. They may have been part of a traditional area or formerly been part of some other area, but they have now left that area and have come to have an association with a new area. 
He pointed out that there should be due regard for tribal differences, to avoid dissention. He pointed out that consideration should be given to their special needs in town, such as thenneed to have access to a hospital and matters of that kind. He recommended that the Land Council field officers should identify their needs in respect of such matters as camping areas, community housing areas, hostels, single family housing and the like, and that their views should be put to the town planners and the land commissioners. He said that the aim should be that within a reasonable time all Aboriginal groups should be living or camping on land in which they have an interest. His Honour went on to express the hope that by 1 976 there would be no Aboriginal groups in the Northern Territory living in sufferance on Crown lands. A number of honourable members in the chamber at the present time would know a good deal about the town people in places such as Darwin, the Kulalak people and the people at Railway Dam out of Darwin-people who occupy areas which were once the traditional transitional grounds over which those people passed and who now live there permanently in smaller numbers than in bygone times. 
It is the hope of the Opposition that these amendments will be carried so that it will be possible to make grants to Aboriginal people living in the town situation and apart from the places of which they have been dispossessed. This is an extremely significant matter. The Opposition would like to call for a division on this question, but in consideration of the time involved we probably will avoid a division. But, in our avoiding a division, I would not like the impression to be given that we do not attribute the utmost significance to this situation. It is a departure from the Woodward recommendations, a departure from every attitude that any group of Aboriginal people has ever expressed about this matter, and a departure from the 1975 legislation introduced by the Australian Labor Party. If there is to be any give and take at all, if there is to be one skerrick of compromise at all in respect of the matters which the Opposition is earnestly putting to the Minister, this is an issue with such characteristics and with high objectivity. 
-The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was arguing against the Opposition's case before he heard it. I would consider that he is now enlightened, following the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant). 
-It is true that I moved the 4 amendments at the one time but I did not make any reference to the matter about which the honourable member for Lilley spoke. I think he thought he was replying to another matter because he had a speech prepared on it. In any event, I will say a few words about it now but more will be said about this matter at a subsequent stage. The fundamental question here is this: Should miners, those people who are entrepreneurially engaged in a pursuit of gouging minerals from the ground in the Northern Territory, need consent when land becomes Aboriginal land? For the first time in Australia's history, as a result of this legislation, Aboriginal people will have land rights. It might have been all right to ride roughshod over the Aborigines in bygone times but the whole purpose of this legislation is to grant land rights. 
The Opposition is moving amendments to delete a number of words which would have the effect of giving Aborigines rights in this particular matter. The amendments are designed to ensure that mining interests with options and other rights, interest in land and the like, must seek consent from Aboriginal people in their corporate state when land becomes Aboriginal land. The Government can bastardise this legislation and it can ruin it but this was indeed the unqualified intent of  Mr Justice  Woodward which has been set out in the most unequivocal and unambiguous terms in his report. I should like to make a brief reference to some of the salient comments that he made about this matter. An inquiry has been conducted into this matter. The then Opposition, the present Government, was in agreement with the fact that we should have this great and high principled application to the issues involved. Unless the Government can put up a case against the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward to this Parliament it ought to adopt the amendment.  Mr Justice  Woodward certainly made out a most forthright case along the lines that the amendment proposes. In paragraph 623 of his second report,  His  Honour said: 
No doubt all those companies - 
A lot more than one paragraph of his report could be referred to- which can show substantial expenditures should and will receive priority when any areas of Aboriginal land become available for exploration under any new arrangements that may be decided upon. 
Paragraph 624 states: 
However I think it is essential that they should all be required to adhere to the new arrangements and should not, as the Australian Mining Industry Council has urged on me, be exempt from them. 
In paragraph 625, he said: 
When the understandable expectations of these companies that they would be able to continue exploration under the rules which governed them to begin with, are weighed against the equally reasonable expectation of Aborigines that their wishes about reserve lands will now be respected, I have no doubt in my mind which expectation must be disappointed. 
I am sure that the Committee has no doubt in its mind about what  His  Honour implied in that respect. The 1975 Labor legislation, which acted as a catalyst on the whole consideration of this matter and which is still substantially upheld in the current legislation, gave expression to these principles. I do not think,  Mr Minister,  that I am mistaken if I say that the 1976 legislation, as distinct from the current legislation- the Coalition legislation- also provided that mining interests seeking extensions should be subject to consent. At one point in time we were all in agreement in respect of this matter-  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Woodward, the Opposition and the Liberal and National Country parties. But something has happened. What is it that has happened since June 1976 to cause the Aboriginal needs to become secondary and subjective. I believe that the Government has a lot to answer for in this regard. This is not a question of saying that the Government does not want mining in the Northern Territory or that it does not recognise the need for mining; it would recognise the need for mining in any State or Territory regardless of who owned the land. If the Government is trying to get the thing on the cheap, and to come in on the grouter and say that here it has this distinctive, discriminatory situation where only Aboriginal people will not have a say about the terms and conditions, it is resorting to the extreme form of paternalism and it is running in the face of the attitude of the Aboriginal people which has been unanimously expressed. 
Can any honourable member present- the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is a great zealot and enthusiast and is highly experienced in these things- point to one corporate body of Aboriginal people which wants what this Government is proposing under this provision? Of course not. So, the Government is just denying all the counsel and all the high conviction that it has had in bygone times. It has changed its course of action. The Government is not prepared to require these mining companies to front up now in the face of the new situation where there are now new owners, the Aboriginal people. If the Government does not accept the proposition that the legislation will be significant it will not be significant, especially in respect of the great area of responsibility that the Government is turning over to the Country Party dominated Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory which comprises people who have opposed nearly all these principles. 
The Minister has put the whole situation in such a way that so many of the important implemental aspects of these matters will be in the hands of people who have opposed any progress in these issues. Unless this Government which in fact has a prerogative over the matter about which we are now talking- the question of consent about existing mining interests- is prepared to put some teeth into the legislation and show that it means business what will happen in respect of these things about which the Commonwealth, has a oversighting role in regard to the Legislative Assembly? These people have shown an antipathy. I do not regard the Minister as having an antipathy to the best interests of Aboriginal People and their quests for land rights. I regard him as being sympathetic. I am putting it to him that here is a matter in respect of which he has an unfettered prerogative and for which once he showed some enthusiasm. Now he has welshed on the deal and the Committee is entitled to some explanation. Unless there is some explanation I believe Aboriginal people around Australia will regard this government as lacking good faith in respect of this important matter. 
-May I raise a very brief matter in connection with clause5? Clause 5 concerns the functions of land trusts. In clause 5 (1) (b) there is an alteration from what appeared in the previous Bill which was introduced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on 4 June. One of the functions of a Land Trust set out in paragraph (b) is: to exercise its powers as owner of land ... for the benefit of Aboriginal groups ... 
I would like to know why the word 'communities' has been deleted from this paragraph. Is group' in fact to imply 'community'? Is a group a community? Is a community a group? I looked at a dictionary a short time ago to find the definition of 'community'. I admit that the dictionary was not the most reputable dictionary available, but it is one that is in common use. The dictionary that I consulted defines 'community' as joint ownership; identity of character', which seems to be an appropriate term to use in respect of Aboriginal people. It also defines the word as meaning 'fellowship'. I do not want to frighten the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  but the word is also defined as meaning 'organised political, municipal or social body- a body of people living in the same locality'. There has been this change. Was it deliberate? Was there some real purpose in substituting the word 'groups' for 'communities'? 
-The main issue involved in this clause is similar to the ones that were debated just a short time ago. The clause involves the issue of exempting existing mining leases or interests from delivery to land trusts. Sub-clause 10 (3) reads: 
For the purposes of this section, a lease of land granted under a law of the Northern Territory relating to mining for minerals shall be deemed to be an estate or interest in that land if the lease was granted before the date of commencement of this section or in pursuance of an agreement entered into by the Commonwealth before that date. 
The Opposition is seeking to omit the words 'before the date of commencement'. The effect of this sub-clause is to exempt the mining interests that are already existing from the provisions of the Bill which apply to Aboriginal land. 
Our views have been stated. We believe that it is not proper and it is not consistent with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward to be renewing mining leases; that mining leases should get automatic renewal. We believe that all the companies holding leases should reapply and that they should not take for granted the question of consent. It is interesting to note that  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward said in his report, which was brought down in April 1974, that 29 exploration licences had been granted to 17 applicants. We know that the issuing of exploration licences was frozen in December 1972. 
I would like to summarise what His Honour had to say. For reasons that I have mentioned I will not quote large extracts from the report as this would be time consuming. His Honour said that the capital involved was risk capital. He pointed out that companies had been on notice for several years that Aboriginal wishes could no longer be ignored. I think that is an understatement of the fact. They have been on notice for a long time- since the 1967 referendum and certainly since the election of the Labor Government in 1972 when the then Prime Minister clearly indicated the intention of the then Government to give effect to these recommendations. So in that context these people have certainly been involved with risk capital and with risks. The fact that they have been there for so long ought not to represent a great deal of consolation or security of tenure for them, in view of the clear indications that there were going to be new concepts applying to these situations. 
His Honour said also that the freeze should continue for some time. He said that he did not stand for pre-exemption- and who does? The Opposition does not, anyway. It does not stand for pre-exemption of these existing mining interests- a  fait accompli.  Now that there are new owners, or the traditional owners have been legalised in terms of the white man's way of doing things, things obviously have to change. Mining interests cannot regard renewal as a  fait accompli.  In fact, the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, as  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward pointed out, actually made the recommendation that there should be a freeze over mining renewals and mining development for 20 years. This was not just for one year or 2 years. We have had this freeze now for a certain time. As I understand the position it will run to the end of this year. The people who made that recommendationthe members of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs- cannot be regarded as slouchers in this situation. When it is all said and done the Council had among its members Professor Stanner who is one of the country's leading anthropologists- probably the leading anthropologist- in respect of these matters. Certainly he is highly and mutually well regarded from the standpoint of the 2 major sides of politics in this Parliament.  Mr Dexter,  the permanent head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was also a member of the Council; so too was no less a person than  Dr Coombs.  These men made the point that the freeze should go on for 20 years. But this Government is not applying that principle. It is seeing that those who have had these vested interests, advantages and privileges for so long are given the chance of compounding their privileges. This, as I see it, is completely unprincipled. 
When we consider the conditions enjoyed by some of these people, the Australian community would be shocked to know the extent to which this great bonanza has been handed out on a platter. Let me take, for example, the lease that Nabalco has, which covers 1800 hectares.  His  Honour pointed out that the rental was $8,630. This lease was given in 1969, and it runs for 42 years with an option for another 42 years. The proposition that the Minister is putting before us is that there should be automatic rights of renewal even in respect of the new legalised Aboriginal ownership. This is contrary to what he put before; it is contrary to what the Bill introduced by the Labor Party provided; it is contrary to what was said by  Mr Justice  Woodward; it is contrary to the recommendations of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs; and it is contrary to what has been said by anybody with a reputation in respect of these matters. This bonanza is to go on and on. The attitude seems to be that if one has an advantage one should keep it and compound it. We can look at Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Groote Eylandt where the Gemco operation is producing manganese.  His  Honour said that the rental was $478-not $478,000-for 33 square kilometres from 1 964 for 42 years with options. The wharf area has a great allocation of space for 99 years and the town area has another allocation as well. Lots of lesser people like Kailis in the Northern Territory were paying $5. 
That is an incongruous amount in terms of the capital which he has invested and the benefits which he accrued. Others were paying a rental of $118. 
When we go through the list which His Honour provided in his second report we see companies like Western Nuclear (Aust.) Pty Ltd in the Bulman area which has a lease granted from 1953. The Utah Development Company at Daly River had a mineral lease of 2590 square kilometres granted in 1971. Then, in the petroleum area there was Magellan Petroleum Aust. Ltd at Yuendumu, Southern Pacific Petroleum NL at Lake Mackay, Magellan Petroleum (NT) Pty Ltd at Haasts Bluff, United Canso Oil and Gas N.T. Pty Ltd at the same place and Australian Aquitane Petroleum Pty Ltd at Daly River and Wagait, and so the list goes on. His Honour stated: 
Aborigines should have the right to prevent exploration for them - 
That is minerals-  on their traditional lands. 
I do not want to labour the point much more. We were on it for a while when we spoke about the previous provisions which applied to this matter. But is seems to me that, if this legislation is to go through in the form proposed by the Minister, Australia will be breaking new ground. Here we have real owners who will not have any say and whose traditional lands which might be granted to them will be subject to mining ordinances and all sorts of complicated procedures which could deleteriously affect their way of life. They will not be given any opportunity to have any say about the matter. I put it to the Minister that he should accept the amendment which simply provides that there should now be a renegotiation. There is obviously a premium on the fact that owners can have an effective say in a situation which will emerge after the commencement of this legislation. I move: 
Omit sub-clause (3). 
I would like to raise with the Minister a matter that has been referred to before. It concerns the exclusion of roads from grants of land to Aboriginal land trusts. The effect of clause 1 1 is along these lines. When the Minister is satisfied in terms of clause 50 that land should be granted to a Land Trust for the benefit of Aboriginals entitled to that land by Aboriginal tradition, land on which there is a road over which the public has a right of way is not included. Clause 11(3) states: 
A reference in sub-section ( I ) to land shall be read as not including a reference to any land on which there is a road over which the public has a right of way. 
As the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  pointed out, it seems that Aboriginal people are being very greatly disadvantaged. Without labouring the point, it is contrary to the recommendations made under the tourism heading and under several other headings by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward. It seems to me that it is important to mention that the Opposition feels gravely concerned about this and is obsessed with the conviction that the Aboriginal people will be languishing in great disadvantage as a result of the Government's intention to exclude roads from Aboriginal lands. As I understand the position, we are speaking not only about roads over which the public has a right of way but also about roads which might be created in the future. 
If this is the case, this could play havoc with Aboriginal traditional lands. If this situation was taken to the absurd stage, one could apply an L. J. Hooker type sub-division and mutilate and ruin the characteristics of the land as traditionally enjoyed by Aboriginal people. I do not really think that that is likely to happen but there are all kinds of intermediate levels of development about which one could speculate. In any event, if we look at the situation in Arnhem Land, at Oenpelli and at Maningrida, one already knows that if roads are disregarded as traditional land over which the Northern Territory Administration is to exercise its prerogative and rightswhich I have mentioned is an inferior concept to the concept of Aboriginal people exercising their right- an inundation of tourists can wreak havoc with Aboriginal life. The Aboriginal people will become spectacles posing for photographs. Any kind of white intrusion into a traditional area just brings about diminution of the traditional way of life. Obviously, this is a very important matter. I wonder what great conviction caused the Minister to disregard the recommendations of  Mr Jusdee  Woodward and all the other people with great knowledge and experience in these matters. Surely he knows, as one who has contemporaneously travelled over land in Aboriginal occupied areas would know, how devastating this can be. Clearly, the roads should be part of that traditional land administered under the provisions of this legislation. I wonder whether the Minister can throw any light on his departure from this principle. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (2) (b) (iii) after 'matter', insert 'and after giving paramount consideration to the interests of the traditional Aboriginal owners '. 
This matter concerns grants of interest in land the subject of a deed in escrow. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that, where land is held in escrow by a land council, if a person seeks to renew his estate or interest in that land for a further period or to convert his interest an arbitrator appointed by the Minister to report on hardship that would be occasioned must give paramount consideration to the interests of the traditional Aboriginal owners. It is very difficult to see, given the tendering of anthropological evidence, that anything could really outweigh the hardship caused to Aboriginals by deprivation of their traditional land. The wording of the proposed amendment follows that which has been judicially interpreted by Australian courts, and it is hoped that this interpretation will be adopted by any person appointed arbitrator. 
However, without this amendment it seems clear that the criteria considered may be against the interests of Aboriginals. As honourable members will be aware, contemporary criteria particularly in the Northern Territory are often related to economic wellbeing. However, for Aboriginals no such claim as to the possibility of capital loss can be made. All they may offer to the arbitrator is their religious and traditional links with their land. It is hoped that the amendment will balance this redress and afford Aboriginals the special consideration that their claim warrants. I might add that this formula is taken from the former Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 when it was used in relation to the children of a marriage. It has been judicially interpreted. 
I suggest to the Minister that in such a situation, when we are talking about relative hardship, if on the one hand there is a mining interest or a person who is concerned with material interests and on the other hand there is an Aboriginal person who does not appear by contemporary standards and considerations to have much to lose, if those contemporary considerations are applied the Aboriginal person will be regarded as being the one who has least to lose. But, taking into account the criterion which has been proposed and the one which already has judicial acceptance in the matrimonial causes area- that paramount consideration has to be given to the interests of the traditional Aboriginal owner- he has a chance of getting a place m the sun. He would be unable to show that if his application were lost he would lose millions of dollars. He would be unable to show that he would be unable to continue living in a mansion or driving around in a Mercedes.  His  interests are relative interests. We must have proper regard for those relative interests- the interests of an Aboriginal person who is concerned with very basic things in life as compared with the interests of a person of considerable means, or the entrepreneurial kind of person who is establishing a mine- and clearly we must put the matter on an entirely different basis. It has to be weighted in favour of the Aboriginal person. 
Paramount consideration should be given to the person who is the subject of this legislation which is supposed to provide a benefit for the Aborigine. I put it to the Minister that, unless a consideration of this kind is to be accepted and is to apply, the application of this clause and the process of arbitrating will be extremely difficult. The Arbitrator will be left in a most unsatisfactory state of legal limbo. He will be living in the legalism of the twentieth century on the one hand whilst the interests of people taken into account are of bygone times. In fairness to the Arbitrator I put it to the Minister that he ought to adopt a provision which has found legal utilisation and legal effectiveness given in respect of children who would otherwise be disadvantaged in the matrimonial legislation. Aboriginal people unquestionably will be disadvantaged if they are put on the same interpretative basis in respect of this matter. 
Rather than proceed to move the amendment which stands m my name, it would be useful if I could obtain from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  an indication of the time that the Committee will have to debate this matter. The Opposition has 28 amendments to move at the Committee stage and I think we are now up to the ninth amendment. I should like to know whether it is a question of picking out priorities. Will we do justice to this Bill or will the debate be curtailed? 
-I should like to comment on what the Minister for Primary Inustry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said. The Aboriginal people have waited 30 000 to 40 000 years for this legislation. It has been mooted for a long time by the present Government. I put it to the Minister in charge of the House that nothing deleterious will happen to the Aboriginal people if the debate is adjourned tonight and resumed tomorrow, Friday or even next week. Perhaps we could sit longer to debate this Bill. This question has been left unattended for a long time, for 175 years. I do not think we can do justice to the legislation in the time that the Minister has proposed. 
I ask him whether he will seriously consider extending the time for this debate because there are very important matters yet to be dealt with and it would be a tragedy if the debate concluded with Aboriginal people outside feeling unrepresented. I know, for example that people of one Aboriginal reserve area, the Tanamai people, will be deprived of effective coverage. Their case has not even been mentioned at this stage. It is the last amendment of the 28 amendments that the Opposition will be moving. 
Clause agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order! 
The  DEPUTY  CHATRMAN-Order! I am sorry, the honourable member for Wills must resume his seat. The question has already been put. 
Clause 15. (Payments to Land Council in respect of occupation of land by the Crown, etc.) 
It is almost impossible to work in this way. We cannot agree to it. The Minister is saying that our next amendment is to clause 20. The fact is that there are other matters we should like to raise on other clauses. An amendment does not have to be made to every clause in order to have an intelligent exchange, as the Minister well knows. 
-The Opposition seeks to omit sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of clause 20.I know that it has been dealt with. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I am in some difficulty. The amendment No. 10, as circulated, refers to the insertion of a new clause after clause 20. 
-The purpose of the amendment, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  pointed out, is to insert clause 56 of the 1975 Bill into this legislation. This new clause provides for the possibility of vesting land in Aboriginal councils for particular purposes, generally relating to needs, and is based on the recommendations of the Woodward report. In his first report the Commissioner suggested that local Aboriginal land be held on a community basis, a suggestion which was based on what the Commissioner felt to be a fairly clear consensus of Aboriginal opinion and because the Commission represented the basic political and social drift of Aborigines in modern society. However in paragraph 84 of the Commission's second report  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward stated that the system which he considered to be most in harmony with traditional Aboriginal social organisations was that of a trust made up of clan elders supported by an administrative organisation. 
The Commissioner then noted that Aboriginal communities had appreciated the lack of practicability in vesting small areas of land in Aboriginal claims but also commented that as 'the most likely development over the next 50 years or so will be a gradual weakening of links with specific areas and sites and the strengthening of community identity with larger tracts of land' community ownership would be more appropriate at that time. To provide for this he recommended in paragraph 88 that legislation provide for both land ownership possibilities. The 1975 legislation catered for this, and this amendment makes a similar provision. This amendment will give effect to  His  Honour's point made in paragraph 88 that the form of ownership should not be forced along by the imposition of arrangements where they are not wanted and would not willingly be accepted or observed. For these reasons and to give flexibility to Aboriginal communities on this matter I commend the new clause to the Committee. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
A mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land shall not be granted unless- 
both the Minister and the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated have consented, in writing, to the making of the grant; or 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the national interest requires that the grant be made and that Proclamation has taken effect in accordance with section 42. '. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 41 (Application of Acts authorising mining on Aboriginal land) 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
The  Atomic Energy Act  1 953 or any other Act authorising mining for minerals does not apply in relation to land that is Aboriginal land so as to authorise the entry or remaining of a person on the land or the doing of any act by a person on the land unless- 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that both the Minister and the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated have consented to the application of that Act in relation to entry on that land; or 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the national interest requires the application of that Act in relation to entry on that land and that Proclamation has taken effect in accordance with section 42.'. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (3), insert the following new sub-clause: (3A) If notice of a motion to disapprove of a declaration in a Proclamation that has been laid before either House of the Parliament under sub-section ( 1 ) is given in that House within15 sitting days after the copy of the Proclamation has been laid before that House and on the last day on which the resolution could have been passed- 
the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, that House shall be deemed to have passed, on that day, a resolution disapproving of the declaration in the Proclamation.'. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 43 and 44- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 45. 
1 ) Where the Minister is satisfied that a Land Council has refused, or is unwilling, to give its consent to the grant of a mining interest by reason that the applicant for the grant will not enter into an agreement proposed by the Land Council as consideration for the giving of its consent to the grant, the Minister may, after consultation with the Land Council and with the applicant for the grant, appoint an Arbitrator, being a person whom the Minister considers to be in a position to deal with the matter impartially, to determine the terms and conditions of the agreement that, in the opinion of the Arbitrator, should be acceptable to the Land Council and to the applicant as consideration for the giving by the Land Council of its consent to the grant. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-clauses: 
Where the Minister is satisfied that a Land Council has refused, or is unwilling, to give its consent to the grant of a mining interest by reason that the applicant for the grant will not enter into an agreement proposed by the Land Council as consideration for the giving of the grant, he shall require production to him of a copy of a statement in writing by the applicant for the grant and an acknowledgement in writing signed by not less than one half of the members of the Land Council that they have seen and understood the proposals contained in the statement in writing. ( 1a) If the Minister considers the proposals contained in the statement in writing referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) by the applicant for the grant to be just and equitable in the circumstances, after consultation with the Land Council and the applicant for the grant, the Minister may appoint a person whom he considers to be in a position to deal with the matter impartially to be an Arbitrator to determine in accordance with the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territory with respect to Arbitration, the terms and conditions of the agreement that, in the opinion of the Arbitrator, should be acceptable to the Land Council and to the applicant as consideration for the giving by the Land Council of its consent to the grant. (1b) The written statement referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) shall set out- 
the amount of payments which the applicant for the grant is prepared to make for the Land Council on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land- 
in consideration of the right to enter upon the land to explore and prospect for minerals; and 
by way of royalties in respect of minerals, if any, extracted from the land; 
the amount and nature of any other interest or benefit which is proposed to be granted to, or to any person or Land Council on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land; 
the type of employment proposed to be available for Aborigines in connexion with the activities which the applicant for the grant proposes to carry out upon the land; 
the manner in which the applicant for the grant proposes to preserve and protect any site or object upon the land which is of significance to the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land; 
e) the nature of each type of activity which the applicant for the grant proposes to carry out upon the land, and the order in which such activities are proposed to be carried out; 
the manner in which the applicant for the grant proposes to consult with the Land Council and the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land in respect of activities carried out by him or by others on his behalf upon or in respect of the land; and 
such other matters as the Minister may require. '. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 46 to 49- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 50. 
1 ) The functions of the Commissioner are- 
on an application being made to the Commissioner by or on behalf of Aboriginals claiming to have a traditional land claim to an area of land, being unalienated Crown land or alienated Crown land in which all estates and interests not held by the Crown are held by, or on behalf of, Aboriginals- 
to ascertain whether those Aboriginals or any other Aboriginals are the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land; and 
to report his findings to the Minister and to the Minister for the Northern Territory, and, where he finds that there are Aboriginals who are the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land, to make recommendations to the Minister for the granting of the land or any part of the land in accordance with sections 1 1 and 12; 
to inquire into the likely extent of traditional land claims by Aboriginals to alienated Crown land and to report to the Minister and to the Minister for the Northern Territory, from time to time, the results of his inquiries; 
to establish and maintain a register of the traditional land claims referred to in paragraph (b); 
to advise the Minister in connexion with any other matter relevant to the operation of this Act that is referred to the Commissioner by the Minister; and 
) to advise the Minister and the Minister for the Northern Territory in connexion with any other matter relating to land in the Northern Territory that is referred to the Commissioner by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: "50.(1) The functions of the Commissioner are- 
to ascertain, and to report to the Minister on, the needs of Aboriginals, whether as individuals or communities, for land in the Northern Territory to be used for residential, employment or other purposes; 
to ascertain, and to report to the Minister on, the availability of land to satisfy the needs referred to in paragraph (a); 
to prepare for the consideration of the Minister plans for the acquisition and development of land in the 
Northern Territory by, or for the benefit of, Aboriginals and financial estimates of the cost of carrying out such plans; 
to advise the Minister in connexion with- 
the making of recommendations for the granting of land under section 1 1 or 20A; 
the resumption of Crown Land held under a lease that is required for Aboriginal community purposes; 
the reservation by planning authorities of land for Aboriginal community purposes in towns; 
the revocation of a grant of land made to an Aboriginal Council under section 20a; and 
v) any other matter relevant to the operation of this Act that is referred to the Commissioner by the Minister; 
on an application being made to the Commissioner by or on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of land, being Crown land, to inquire into, and to report to the Minister on, the desirability of securing that land for the use of those traditional owners; and 
f) to compile and keep maps and other records concerning traditional Aboriginal owners of land, other than Aboriginal land, in the Northern Territory. "(2) In carrying out his functions the Commissioner shall have regard to the following principles- 
Aboriginals who by choice are living at a place on the traditional country of the tribe or linguistic group to which they belong but do not have a right or entitlement to live at that place ought, where practicable, to be able to acquire secure occupancy of that place; and 
Aboriginals who are not living at a place on the traditional country of the tribe or linguistic group to which they belong but desire to live at such a place ought, where practicable, to be able to acquire secure occupancy of such a place. ". 
Amendment negatived. 
I move: 
After clause 67, insert the following new clause: "67 A. ( 1 ) An Aboriginal is entitled, with respect to land contained within a lease for pastoral purposes granted under a law of the Northern Territory- 
to enter and remain on the land; 
to bring on to, and use on, the land, horses for the transport of persons or goods; 
to take and use the natural waters of the land; and 
subject to sub-section (2), to kill wildlife for food on the land. "(2) Where regulations under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 that are expressed to be made for the purposes of the protection or conservation of an endangered species of wildlife prohibit the lulling of members of that species on land to which the regulations apply, an Aboriginal is not entitled, under sub-section (I), to kill members of that species on that land. "(3) Where there are no convenient natural waters on land referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), an Aboriginal is entitled to use bore waters on the land for drinking, cooking, washing or watering horses. "(4) In exercising his rights under sub-section (3), an Aboriginal is not entitled knowingly to disregard any reasonable requirements of the lessee of the pastoral lease in connexion with the bore waters on the land. "(5) Sub-sections (1), (3) and (4) do not apply at any point within a distance of 1 kilometre from any homestead on the land. "(6) A person who, without just cause, proof of which lies upon the person, prevents or obstructs, or attempts to prevent or obstruct, an Aboriginal from exercising his rights under this section is guilty of an offence against this section punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $1,000.". 
Obviously I cannot talk about this proposed new clause because time is not available. It is an important matter relating to pastoral leases and the right of Aboriginal people to enter on to such land, a right which is to be curtailed greatly and circumvented. I only regret that I am unable to put a case on their behalf. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 68 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 68A. 
I move: 
After clause 68, insert the following new clause: "68A. (1) Regulations under the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  197S providing for the protection or conservation of, or making other provision with respect to, wildlife, whether those regulations were made before or after the commencement of this Act, do not apply in relation to an area of Aboriginal land unless- 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the application of those regulations to that area of land has been consented to by a Committee for that area established under this section; or 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the national interest requires the application of those regulations to that area of land and that Proclamation nas taken effect in accordance with section 42. "(2) For the purposes of paragraph ( 1 ) (a), the Minister shall, on the application of the Minister administering the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1975, establish a Committee for an area of Aboriginal land. "(3) A Committee shall consist of- 
a Chairman appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Minister administering the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1975; 
such number of members, not being less than 3, as the Minister determines appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Land Council for the area in which the Aboriginal land concerned is situated; and 
a number of members equal to the number determined by the Minister under paragraph (b) appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. 
The  Chairman  shall convene a meeting of a Committee for the purpose of considering the giving of a consent to a proposal to apply, in relation to the area of Aboriginal land for which the Committee is established, regulations made, or proposed to be made, under the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1975 providing for the protection and conservation of, or making other provision with respect to, wildlife. 
The  Chairman  shall preside at a meeting convened under sub-section (4). 
The consent of a Committee for the purposes of paragraph ( 1) (a) shall be given by resolution passed at a meeting of the Committee by a number of votes greater than the number determined by the Minister for the purposes of paragraph (3) (b). 
Where a resolution referred to in sub-section (6) is moved, the  Chairman  shall endeavour to reconcile any conflicts of opinion among the other members of the Committee but the  Chairman  shall not vote on that unless the voting of the other members is equal and, in that event, the  Chairman  has a casting vote. 
The  Chairman  shall, on the request of a member of a Committee who is an Aboriginal, arrange for the translation of the proceedings of the committee as they occur into the language of that member. 
Subject to any direction of the  Chairman,  a member of a Committee who is an Aboriginal may be accompanied to a meeting of the Committee by such advisers as he may wish to accompany him. 
In this section-  "Chairman",  means the  Chairman  of a Committee; "Committee", means a Committee established under sub-section (2). 
Where an area of land becomes Aboriginal land, regulations in force under the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1975 providing for the protection or conservation of, or making other provision with respect to, wildlife, that were applicable to that area immediately before it became Aboriginal land continue, notwithstanding sub-section ( 1 ), to be applicable to that area but cease to apply to that area at the expiration of the period of 12 months commencing on the day on which that area became Aboriginal land unless, before that time- 
the regulations are repealed; or 
the requirements of sub-section (1) are complied with in relation to the regulations. '. 
This proposed new clause relates to important matters involving the protection of wildlife and the general question of conservation. The way this matter is treated has a very significant effect on the way Aboriginal people live, in the sense that they live from the land. If they are to be restricted in their use of vehicles or certain processes of hunting, their health can be affected adversely. There is a great deal to be said about this matter. Many Aboriginal communities which have briefed members of the Opposition will be disappointed and frustrated with the parliamentary processes that prevent us from saying any more on this matter. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
( 1 ) A person shall not desecrate land in the Northern Territory that is a site of significance according to Aboriginal tradition. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section ( 1), a person shall be deemed to have desecrated a site if, on or near the site, he knowingly does an act, or causes damage, of such a nature that the doing of the act or the causing of the damage, as the case may be, would, if witnessed by Aboriginals to whom the site is significant, be offensive to them by reason of the Aboriginal tradition in respect of that site. 
It is a defence to a charge under sub-section ( 1 ) if the person charged proves- 
that the doing of the act, or the causing of the damage, as set out in the charge was accidental; 
where the site was not on Aboriginal land-that the person charged had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that the site was of significance according to Aboriginal tradition; or 
c) where the site was on Aboriginal land- that: 
the person charged was lawfully on the land and sought the services of a guide from the Land Council for the area in which the site was situated; and 
a guide was not provided within a reasonable time or the guide provided failed to identify the site as one of significance according to Aboriginal tradition. 
The regulations may declare areas of land in the Northern Territory to be sites of significance according to Aboriginal tradition for the purposes of this section. 
In proceedings for an offence against sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to an area declared under sub-section (4)- 
the declaration is conclusive proof that the area to which it relates is a site of significance according to Aboriginal tradition; and 
the defences set out in paragraphs (3) (b) and (c) do not apply. 
This section does not apply in relation to an act done in relation to land if- 
the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated has given consent in writing to that act; or 
b ) that act is done in the course of, or in connexion with, mining operations authorised by a law of the Northern Territory or by the Atomic Energy Act 1953 or any other Act authorising mining for minerals and the Minister has authorised, in writing, the doing of that act. 
A Land Council may agree with an applicant for a consent referred to in paragraph (6) (a) for the giving of that consent by the Land Council in consideration of the payment to the Land Council by the applicant of an amount specified in the agreement. 
The Minister shall not grant an authorisation under paragraph (6) (b) unless he is satisfied that the applicant for the authorisation had sought the consent of the relevant Land Council to the doing of the act to which the proposed authorisation relates and that consent has been refused or has not, within 60 days after application for it was made, been granted, and, in deciding whether to grant or refuse such an authorisation, he shall have regard to- 
the extent of the hardship that the proposed act would cause to the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land concerned if the authorisation were granted; 
b ) the extent of the loss to persons interested in the mining operations concerned if the authorisation were not granted; and 
the extent to which the national interest would be affected by granting or refusing to grant the authorisation.' 
I am heartened by recent events. I do not know whether they provide a licence to say a few words on this amendment. It is an important one. The Opposition proposes to delete clause 69 and to insert a new clause in relation to sacred sites. The Northern Territory legislature has a very disappointing record in regard to the protection of sacred sites. It has declared only 6 sites in 18 years. It seems that there are good reasons why we should have regard for the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Woodward that this matter be the subject of Federal legislation. The Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders recently reported on this matter and recommended, in particular, that this matter remain the responsibility of the Australian Par.liament and Government. As honourable members would know, that Committee is chaired by a Government member,  Senator Bonner.  Its report was a unanimous one. It represented the views of both sides of the Parliament. At least among these informed people there is an attitude which is at variance with the one that the Government is incorporating in this legislation. 
The proposed new clause makes it an offence knowingly to damage or desecrate a site of significance to Aboriginal tradition. Sub-clause (3) lists defences against a prosecution under this clause. Sub-clause (4) provides for the declaration by regulation of sites of significance. It is not intended that all sites of significance be declared. In many cases Aborigines are unwilling to reveal the location of such sites. Existing protection for aU sites under the Native and Historical Objects Preservation Ordinance is inadequate because acquisition with compensation must occur before a site may be designated or protected in any way. The recent comment of the Majority Leader in the Legislative Assembly is important. He said that the Assembly would try to identify and specify sacred sites. Even taken with the assurances expressed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  it is so general that honourable members opposite will see why Aboriginals, in particular the elders, of almost every clan in the Territory have made representations to have this matter legislated for and regulated by the Commonwealth. 
The Committee of the Whole will recollect what the Minister said in his second reading speech, the good intentions and assurances of both the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and the Majority Leader in the Legislative Assembly. It seems to me that it is a very poor way to do business, to be stacking all our hopes and aspirations in respect of these matters on good intent rather than on matters that are properly prescribed in legislation. The question of the preservation of sacred sites has been the subject of very great indifference and neglect on the part of the Northern Territory legislature in the past. It is very difficult to generalise and to indict an entire legislature for what has happened, but I think it is fair to say that if one has regard to the history of the legislative body in the Northern Territory in respect of this matter one would hardly regard it as a body that is inspired with and obsessed by the need to act effectively on this matter. It is another matter for which  Mr Justice  Woodward recommended the Australian Government should have responsibility. There is no question that the Aboriginal 1&gt;eople would like that. The effect of my very lengthy amendment is to provide for the acceptance of Commonwealth responsibility for this matter. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
( 1 ) Subject to this section, an Aboriginal is entitled to enter and remain upon Aboriginal land if his presence on that land would not interfere with the use or enjoyment of an estate or interest in the land held by a person, not being a Land Trust or an Aboriginal Council. 
Subject to this Act and except as otherwise provided by the regulations, a person other than an Aboriginal shall not enter or remain on Aboriginal land unless he is the holder of a permit, in writing, issued to him by or on behalf of the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
Before the making of regulations for the purposes of sub-section (2), the Minister shall consult any Land Council in the area of which is situated any Aboriginal land to which the regulations, if made, would apply and shall, when considering the making of die regulations, take into account any views on the matter expressed by the Land Council. 
A person who is on Aboriginal land (whether in accordance with a permit or not), other than a person who is on the land in accordance with regulations under sub-section (2) or in accordance with paragraph (S) (a) or is one of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land, may be required to leave that land by a person authorised on that behalf by the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated, and the person on whom such a requirement is made shall comply with the requirement within a reasonable time. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
Where a person, other than a Land Trust or an Aboriginal Council, has an estate or interest in Aboriginal land- 
a person is entitled to enter and remain on the land for any purpose that is necessary for the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner; 
a permit shall not be issued to a person under subsection (2) with respect to the land if the presence of the person on the land would interfere with the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner; and 
a permit issued under sub-section (2) with respect to the land shall be expressed to impose on the holder of the permit a condition that he will not interfere with the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner. 
The holder of a permit to enter and remain on Aboriginal land shall comply with any condition referred to in paragragh (S)(c) or otherwise imposed on him as such older by the issuing authority. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
In proceedings for an offence against sub-section (2) or (4) it is a defence if the person charged proves- 
in the case of an offence against sub-section (2)-that- 
his entry or remaining on the land was due to necessity; and 
it was not practicable to apply for the necessary permit; or 
in the case of an offence against sub-section (4)- that his remaining on the land was due to circumstances outside his control. 
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section, the law of the Northern Territory relating to travelling stock on pastoral leases applies to and in relation to Aboriginal land used for pastoral purposes'. 
The amendment concerns permits to enter Aboriginal land. Something has been said about this matter. If more time were given to debate the amendment the Committee would be able to get  the issue into much sharper perspective. In view of the time available to me I can only express concern that again the Woodward recommendations have been disregarded and that the Aboriginal people will be administered by a Darwin-based bureaucracy as against operating the permit system through their own council structure. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 70a. 
-I move: 
After clause 70, insert the following new clause: 70a. (1) Subject to this section, where Aboriginal land adjoins the territorial sea, or internal waters of the Commonwealth, appertaining to the Northern Territory, that part of the territorial sea or internal waters so appertaining that is within 2 kilometres of the boundary of the Aboriginal land shall, for the purposes of section 70, be deemed to be part of that Aboriginal land. 
This section has effect subject to the obligations of the Commonwealth under international law, including obligations under any agreement between the Commonwealth and another country or countries. 
Regulations made for the purposes of sub-section 70 (2) may make provision for the exemption from the provisions of that sub-section, in its application by virtue of this section, of persons on board ships included in a prescribed class of ships, either absolutely or subject to conditions (4)Where- 
a court convicts a person of an offence against section 70 in its application by virtue of this section; and 
at the time of the offence, the person was on board a boat that was carrying fish, the court may order the forfeiture of that fish or of the proceeds of the sale of that fish. 
Any property ordered by a court to be forfeited under sub-section (4) becomes the property of the Commonwealth and shall be dealt with or disposed of in accordance with the directions of the Minister. '. 
This clause concerns Aboriginal control over entry on the area of sea immediately adjoining Aboriginal land. This is again another matter to be referred to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly for complementary legislation. It is another matter about which there were specific recommendations by  Mr Justice  Woodward. It was a matter which was the subject of more high principled objectivity in the Labor legislation. There will be a great deal of disappointment on the part of the Aboriginal people who will not have as an effective right over the use of the waters adjoining traditional Aboriginal land. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 71. 
Sub-section ( 1 ) does not authorize an entry, use or occupation that would interfere with the use or enjoyment of an estate or interest in the land held by a person not being a Land Trust or an Aboriginal Council or other incorporated association of Aboriginals. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2). 
This clause prohibits Aboriginal entry if it interferes with the use or enjoyment of an estate or interest. Very precise recommendations were made by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward in respect to permitting reasonable access to pastoral properties. The fact is that a person can get an interest or an estate which can be quite massive in size and say that Aboriginal people are not allowed entry. This provision can be used or invoked to deprive Aboriginal people of the use of their land. It is a very serious matter. It is just another one of the more recent issues that have come before the Committee, which really cut the whole basis of the Woodward recommendations down to a level where what remains is of infinitesimal benefit to the Aboriginal people. I express great concern that the hour will not allow the Committee to go into this matter in greater depth. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 72 agreed to. 
Clause 73 (Reciprocal legislation of the Northern Territory) 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
( 1 ) Subject to sub-section (2), this Act does not affect the application to Aboriginal land of a law of the Northern Territory to the extent that that law is capable of operating concurrently with this Act. 
The regulations may provide for the exclusion or modification of a law of the Northern Territory in its application to Aboriginal land '. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 75 to 78- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Schedule 1. 
I move: 
After the description of land set out under the heading Santa Teresa ', insert the following: 
I move: 
Omit the schedule. 
Amendment negatived. 
Schedule agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did he state, in answer to my question No. 635, that the Pharmaceutical Advisory Committee would consider the availability of cows' milk substitutes as pharmaceutical benefits for the treatment of cows' milk allergy in children at its next meeting on 24-25 June 1976. 
If so, (a) did the Committee meet on those dates; (b), was the matter considered and (c) what was the decision. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What revenue has been received by the Australian Government from estate duty in each of the last 10 years. 
What amount is expected to be received during 1976-77. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the amount of assistance given by the Australian Government to local government authorities during each of the last 10 years, and what percentage of the annual Federal expenditure was represented by this assistance in each year. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What plans have been made to build a new and adequate residence for the Prime Minister. 
) What site has been set aside for such a building. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Was Aboriginal employment at the Garden Point community on Melville Island reduced from the present level of 40 to 19 as from 3 1 October 1976. 
As stated by the  President  of the Garden Point Council, is this due to their reduced budget allocation; if so, what is the reason for the reduction when he gave his personal assurances to the Aboriginal community on 30 June 1976 and repeated it on 19 August 1976 that levels of Aboriginal employment would be maintained. 
Did a meeting of the entire Garden Point community on 19 October 1976 pass a resolution condemning the Government for misleading the people and making untrue promises. 
Will he consult with the Minister for Social Security to have the waiting period for unemployment benefits waived for those persons to be retrenched, and will he give an undertaking to other Aboriginal communities throughout 
Australia that no other communities will be treated in the same manner. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the staff component at the nuclear reactor plant at Lucas Heights on (a) 30 June 1976, (b) 30 June 1974 and (c) 30 June 1972. 
What was the turnover of staff at the plant in (a) 1975-76,(b) 1973-74 and (c 1971-72. 
What was the cost of maintaining the reactor in (a) 1975-76, (b) 1973-74 and (c) 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In which overseas countries does Australia not have its own diplomatic presence, diplomatic representation by some other country or a representative of the Trade Commissioner Service. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice: 
What sums have been expended by the Australian Government on inventors advisory schemes in the last 10 years, and what follow up assistance has been provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the Federal expenditure in each of the following areas during each of the last 20 years: (a) primary schools, (b ) secondary schools and (c) tertiary institutions. 
What was the per capita expenditure in each area in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What Federal funds were provided for sewerage reticulation works in each State in each of the years 1965-66 to 1975-76. 
What amount is provided for sewerage reticulation works in each of the States in the Budget for 1 976-77. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the State Government of New South Wales ever sought Federal financial assistance in respect of the maintenance and development of the Royal National Park, New South Wales; if so, with what result. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Which paintings of the Australian National Gallery collection are presently on loan to the Governor-General. 
What was the date on which each of these paintings was borrowed from the national collection. 
3 ) What is the value of each painting. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was good enough to reply to a question which I had placed on the parliamentary notice paper and which was headed 'Australian National Gallery: Loan of Paintings to Governor-General'. In his reply the Prime Minister provided information about the paintings and other works of art which have been made available to the present Governor-General in the short period in which he has been in office. It is very plain from the answer that was given that the Governor-General is monopolising works of art from the Australian National Gallery which should be available for the enjoyment of the Australian community. Since  Sir John  took office the number of paintings loaned to Yarralumla has more than doubled. Information provided by the Prime Minister in yesterday 's  Hansard  shows that some of Australia's most valuable art treasures are included in the 69 paintings and 3 Aboriginal paintings now on loan to Government House. The works include paintings by Arthur Boyd entitled 'The Rabbiter', "The Valley', 'Unicorn and Figure in a Tree', and 'Rosebud Landscape'. They include the famous work of art by William Dobell, 'Regent's Park London', and the Russell Drysdale paintings 'Halfcaste Woman' and 'Country Boy' and others. Also contained in the collection is Sidney Nolan's 'Death of Sergeant Kennedy at Stringy bark Creek'. 
It is a marvellous list. I do not blame the Governor-General for wanting to have these paintings displayed in his residence. But there are 69 treasures of Australia's art collection there. In addition, the Government House collection includes at least 11 ceramics, 4 pieces of sculpture and 2 tapestries, all acquired during  His  Excellency's period of office. Moderate utilisation would be accepted as reasonable but I regard this over-indulgence as reprehensible. It would be more in keeping with the role of the National Gallery to put this unique collection on circuit as was done with 'Blue Poles'. The collection should be put into the universities of Australia, into the colleges of advanced education, into the art galleries in the great cities, the country towns and the provincial cities and in civic centres and art galleries all around Australia to let the people who paid for them draw some inspiration from them. 
I do not want to question the need for works of art to be displayed at Government House. I realise that His Excellency's wife has a great appreciation of art and is very actively involved in this area. But one can engage in excesses. I do not know the value of these works of art because the Prime Minister declined to answer that part of my question. It could well be that works of art worth millions of dollars have accumulated at Government House. I regard that as unreasonable. The entire community would benefit if the collection was exhibited on a circulating basis to the places that I have mentioned. 
I have no doubt that the Prime Minister's refusal to provide information about the value of this Yarralumla collection is an indication of his embarrassment. Even to cite original acquisition costs, as could easily have been done, would have shown that the Governor-General is wallowing in a luxurious art arsenal rivalled only by a handful of eccentric millionaire art collectors of international notoriety. I put it to the Prime Minister that the Government has a responsibility to take action and to limit the degree of luxury enjoyed by the Governor-General in this regard. These works or art should be placed among the people of Australia, among the young students who also have an appreciation of the aesthetic things in life. 
I believe the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  should be commended for taking this opportunity to raise the general question of the need to review sitting hours. The Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, to which he referred, obviously has a very important job to do.  Mr Speaker,  since you and I arrived in this place a great number of parliamentary topics have emerged which never existed before. Such massive issues as urban affairs, the environment, education and Aboriginal affairs which were not before regarded as the prerogative of this Parliament are now being considered. It seems to me that in the face of that situation and considering that the business of the Parliament is being run as it has been done since the Parliament commenced in 1901 without any significant changes, we will run out of the capacity to provide for effective parliamentary democracy. 
For a period there was an indication of public concern in the sense that there was democracy in the streets or politics in the streets. People were losing their faith in the parliamentary system. They will go on losing it unless we look at ways and means of utilising more effectively the human resources of this Parliament. It is a ridiculous situation when one man can stand up to make a speech, sometimes a bad speechpresent speech excepted from that possibilityand find that all other members are expected to listen, whereas in fact they do not. This system which is operating at the present time is rendered ineffective and almost obsolescent. There is a need for arrangements that will enable parliamentarians to relate to the bureaucrats and other opinion makers and leaders of industry, commerce and trade unions. There is probably a need for this whole parliamentary human conglomeration to have a committee process in the areas of speciality so that the Parliament can gather together just to hear reports and maybe even to allow members to speak in the Parliament after the matter has been dealt with in greater depth outside. 
I conclude by saying that the Opposition never objects to extended sittings of the Parliament. It is good to have due notice of them because the interests of constituents are very important. Nobody wants to break commitments. But, more important than anything else, more important than the consideration of an added sitting day, is the obvious need to obtain better results from the total effort contributed to the parliamentary endeavour by members of Parliament. 
-The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who preceded me in this debate, put up a fairly good performance for a new member who has not been involved in the housing industry. He is due for congratulations. I think he is showing the benefit of his experience in the Old Players group back in his electorate, where he was a distinguished actor. He was able to make a lot from a small amount of information. He could benefit by knowing something of his Government's performance in the housing field. I refer to the Government which went out of office in 1972. 1 have a feeling that that Government was relieved to get out of office because of the great problems it had created in many fields, including the housing field. 
-Here is old Ocker interjecting again. He turns up every time we have a debate on housing. It would be useful for honourable members to know that as a result of the policies of the Liberal-National Country Party Government the increase in the money supply, which in previous years had been running at 6 to 8 per cent, suddenly in 1972-73 jumped to 26 per cent. The housing industry in particular was awash with funds. The value of housing loans by banks, building societies and life offices almost trebled in 2 years, from $ 1,250m in 1970-71 to $2,988m in 1972-73. Of course, no attempt was made by the LiberalNational Country Party Government at that time to formulate a plan for a commensurate increase in the supply of labour and materials. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who is responsible for these matters, is showing an interest in what I am saying, because the same kind of problem could occur again. In other words, what the Australian Labor Party Government inherited was a great tidal wave of money. Nobody has to stretch his imagination very far to recall that the country had run out of bricklayers and that one could not get bricks or timber and that the white metals which go into housing were in short supply. The whole industry had lost its interrelationship between material, manpower and money. 
Those are the facts. The honourable gentleman is shaking his head. I suggest that he go and look at some statistics. We do not want to have a cliche debate, with superficialities of nonsense. We want to get down to the fundamentals. I am giving the House the fundamentals. The LiberalNational Country Party Government of that time put the country into a very serious situation. The National Country Party has never known anything about housing. I look for an intelligent response from the Liberal Party; that is a possibility. But there is no chance of getting such a response from the National Country Party. Let me tell the House what the present  Speaker,  the then Leader of the Opposition, thought of the situation at around that time. This is very important. He stated: 
The first way to cut down private spending - he obviously thought that it was necessary to cut it down- is by making money scarcer and therefore dearer. We would be willing to do this only as part of an overall approach involving reduced Government spending. 
That was a statement made by the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  the present  Speaker,  on the Australian Broadcasting Commission on 26 July 1973.  Mr Leslie  Bury, a former Treasurer and former Housing Minister and the man who introduced the original legislation which we are debating, reacted to that Liberal-National Country Party-caused situation on 1 May 1973. He stated: 
If the Government does nothing at all to restrain the development of the building sector the inflationary problem will become worse and worse. 
In other words, he was simply commenting on the stupidity which characterised the LiberalNational Country Party Government's approach in the period preceding the 1972 election. That is the situation the Labor Administration inherited. It was an extremely difficult time. It may be that the honourable member for Mitchell was not even interested in politics at that time, I do not know. Maybe he knew nothing about housing. But anybody with any recollection knows full well that as a result of that flood of money the whole industry went beserk when the Labor Government first came into office. Every person around the place who was interested in making a quick quid out of housing, and who was able to do so, got an option over a bit of land or a house and jacked the price up, and then away they went. 
-I am unable to comment on whether the Cadmans were in it or not. I would not be unfair and steal an unjustified advantage over the honourable gentleman. But clearly, for the sake of responsible government and to ensure that the kids of the future had a chance of getting housing, some remedial action had to be taken. The Labor Government acted very responsibly in that situation. That is a little lesson for the honourable member. I shall take him aside some time and give him a little more useful information which will make his contributions to these debates in the future even more interesting. 
The Homes Savings Grant Bill was introduced in 1964 by Leslie Bury, as I mentioned. Many of us remember it well. It was the subject of raging controversy from the time the concept was first thought of and certainly from the time it was implemented in legislative form. Actually, it was a Menzies Government gimmick. That right honourable gentleman had a very great capacity for approaching elections in terms of picking up that extra one per cent or 2 per cent which he needed. He was a percentage man. He used to think in terms of what kind of gimmick could be contrived in order to pick up another one per cent or 2 per cent. On one occasion it was the science laboratories grants to non-public schools. On this occasion in 1 964 it was the homes savings grant scheme. 
That is another matter which worked on the same percentage basis. Whether it had principle or not did not matter. Whether it had electoral mileage was the criterion in the approach of  Sir Robert  Menzies. Of course, he is not exceptional among Liberal administrators. This was a election gimmick. It was loaded with anomalies. The honourable member for Mitchell has acknowledged that. Through the years this legislation has been characterised by inequalities. It is the most absurd, ridiculous and unfair legislation which could possibly be put together. I see the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  sitting over there. I have no doubt that he has represented hundreds of people who have been unable to get the homes savings gram. I am sure that he would acknowledge that, even by his silence. 
-I do not want him to nod his head too much; that could be very deleterious to his health. The type of problem in evidence was that people did not have their savings in approved accounts. Then there were the valuation limits. That was a ridiculous proposition. At one point one had to have a house which did not exceed $22,500 in value. In electorates such as mine one could not buy the block of land for that price. Then there was the matter of savings not being held for the period of 3 years. There was a 3-year residential requirement which excluded some of the most needy people who had come from overseas. For example, there were migrants in the Cunningham electorate - 
-Yes, the valuations. These people, first of all, had the problem about residential qualification. The valuation provision made it impossible for 30 000 or 40 000 people a year to qualify. That is about the number of people whose applications were rejected for the reasons I am enunciating. There was the age barrier of 36 years. The Minister would have been a young officer, probably a young lieutenant, when this legislation was introduced. If he had served his time in the Army he would not have been able to take on a permanent house, to locate himself permanently. He is probably over 36 years by now and he would have been excluded by virtue of the nature of his service. Single people were excluded. Then there were all the fights about what was the first home. It was arguable whether a little weekender that people might have somewhere was their first home. Often that kind of consideration excluded them from qualifying under the homes savings grant scheme. Credit unions were totally excluded to start with but afterwards there was some modification of that condition. The housing commission tenants, some of the most needy people in the country, were unable to receive assistance. Even widows were excluded from the benefit of the scheme at that time. 
That is the kind of messy legislation which the Government introduced and which operated over that period of time. It is true that about 350 000 people have qualified for some kind of grant but that figure is used misleadingly. It is often used to give the impression that all those people received the maximum grant, but some of them received a miserable little bit; and usually they were the most deserving people. When this legislation was introduced it was disparaged by the discerning people in the building industry. The estate agents were able to predict that as soon as those grants were introduced- I am not sure whether the initial grant was $500 or $750- prices would rise to swallow them up. In fact they did. Any analysis of that period will show that this is what happened. That might not have mattered very much to the people who received the grant, but for the thousands of people who did not receive the grant it was a very serious matter indeed, because prices went up for everybody. Land prices jumped almost overnight as soon as the developers knew that there was more money to gobble up through the homes savings grant scheme, and building costs spiralled as well. I believe that that will happen again. I predict that we will see a very serious inflationary trend in the housing area. 
One of the worst features of this entire conceptthe 1964 concept and the 1976 concept- is that the Liberal-National Country Party coalition is obsessed with throwing money around to people whether they need it or not. There is no sense of priority in its approach. In other words, this Bill is simply about providing a premium on affluence. The Bill provides a subsidy of $1 for every $3 saved to a maximum saving of $2,000 a year over 3 years. Of course, the scheme will not become completely effective until January 1979. It is almost a never-never scheme. In the short term people will receive less. During 1977 the maximum grant will be only $667 because the applicants can demonstrate savings only for one complete year up to that time. Then the grant on the 2-year savings period will be $1,333 on savings of $4,000. In general terms the legislation is designed to give $2,000 to people, with no strings attached, who can save $40 a week. As I understand it, the maximum savings over a 6-month period can actually go to $48 a week. People who can save $48 a week can hardly be designated as the deserving poor. Even the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who has come out of a very protected life in the socialised service of the Army, would probably know that there are lots of people around who lack the capacity to save $40 or $48 a week. But in any event they will all be contributing to make this grant to people who can save $40 or $48 a week. 
I think that that involves some very dubious principles. It might be better to say that it involves a lack of principle. When I am talking about saving approximately $48 a week I am talking about saving approximately $2,400 a year. So people are going to receive this grant whether they need it or not. That is the interesting and controversial part of it. People are going to receive it whether or not they need an incentive to save. This legislation is supposed to be about giving people an incentive to save. Whether or not they need an incentive to save they are going to receive this grant simply because they enter into a contract to buy or build a house. It is a matter of concern also that they are going to receive it regardless of from what source their savings come. They could be in the form of a backhander from over-indulgent parents. There is nothing to require people to show that they have really saved the money themselves. It can simply be a transfer from a prosperous person to a less prosperous person. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  would appreciate what I am saying because this is done in the more prosperous family situations. Indulgent parents can ensure that their children receive every possible advantage. 
The wealthy supporters of the Liberal Party and the prosperous graziers of the Country Party cannot possibly miss out on receiving this $2,000 hand-out when they go to get their house, but the kids of the poor old battlers cannot get a handout from mum or dad because those low income parents, the artisans of this country, the people who earn by the sweat of their brow, are the subject of vicious and unrelenting attacks by this Government which does not even want to give them wage indexation. It does not even want to sustain the value of their wages. They will not have the capacity to pass handouts on to their children so that they can have a lump of money which will attract this subsidy. A lot of people will be just gasping to get their hands on this money for nothing. After they get the money, whether or not they need it and whether or not they need an incentive to save, they can do what they like with it. In regard to the matter of incentive to save, I wonder whether the Government is very consistent in its economic policy. Does the Government want people to save now or does it want to unlock the banks? Does it want them to spend? Therein lies the answer to the economic difficulties confronting the country. So what we have is this low-brow, cheap electioneering approach to housing which is a disgrace to any government. 
After the money is given to these people- in many instances to affluent people- they can go off and build a mansion if they like on the Yarra bank or in the most salubrious part of Australia. They would be receiving $2,000, at the expense of the taxpayer, whether they need it or not. They can do precisely what they like with it. They can go for a trip to Bali or Bangkok. They can go to Suva or Shangri-la, to Rangoon or the Riviera. This Government does not give a damn what they do with it. They can go and buy a fur coat with it or a Mercedes. They can go and blow it up at the Hilton. They can buy themselves a speedboat. It does not have to be used for housing purposes. If the Government has money to spend on housing let me tell those honourable members opposite who do not know, that there are people around this country at the present time who have been denied an opportunity by 23 years of previous Liberal-Country Party government to get a decent education and as a result an opportunity to earn a higher income. They now suffer from an inability to place a deposit on a home or to attract a loan from a building society. They are people on the housing commission waiting lists around this country. There is a queue of over 100 000 families on the waiting lists. There would be a lot more if people thought they had a chance of getting a house within 2 or 3 years. Many of them do not even attempt to join that queue because it is such a hopeless situation. 
If the Government wants to do something and wants to spend $90m a year as it will be doing under this legislation, why does it not add some money to the coffers of the States which are trying to meet the needs of those underprivileged people? Why is it cutting down the money for aged persons homes and reducing the subsidy from $4 to $1? The Minister is shaking his head. He knows that that is a fact of life under this Government. He knows that whatever the area of need analysed in respect of housing, a toll is taken of the underprivileged people. For a miserable electioneering gimmick the Government is giving handouts in the form of this unprincipled legislation. Moreover, it is doing it at the expense of tax deductibility of mortage interest rates. One and a half million families have been receiving this deductibility and the Government is restricting it now to those people who are paying off their first home, and for the first 5 years. To pay for this scheme tax deductibility is to be taken away from thousands of Australian families. 
-by leaveThe comments made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to a large extent strike a common chord of approval with the Opposition.  His  remarks related to the proposed disbandment of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. The Labor Government leaned heavily on the Council for Aboriginal Affairs for advice during the period from December 1972 to 11 November 1975 when the great policy initiatives about Aboriginal affairs were being taken. The calibre of the Council's members was and is unique. If I recall correctly, it is intended that this Council will cease to function on 30 November. 

 Dr Coombs was its  Chairman.  As all honourable members are aware and as most Australians know, he is one of Australia 's most distinguished public servants. He has made many valuable contributions in addition to the role he played as  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. After all, he was the  Chairman  of the Reserve Bank,  Chairman  of the Australian Council of the Arts, Chancellor of the Australian National University,  Chairman  of the Board of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Governor of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Director-General of Post-War Reconstruction and adviser to governments from 1947. He has given about 30 years distinguished service to this country. I cannot help but feel that he showed a greater genuine devotion in his role as  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs because of his interest in Aboriginal affairs than he did in his other distinguished roles. 
Professor W. E. H. Stanner also was a member of the Council. He certainly is regarded as Australia's most distinguished anthropologist. Professor Stanner came to note early in the piece. In 1968 his Boyer Lectures on Aboriginal affairs entitled  After the Dreaming  proved the most enlightening and influential work of its type ever accomplished.  Mr Barrie  Dexter was the third member of that Council which it is proposed to abolish. He is, of course, a senior and a competent public servant who was previously a diplomat- a profession to which, I understand, he intends to return in the near future. He was the administrative arm of this body. Even before it became the Council for Aboriginal Affairs- in the old days when it was the Office for Aboriginal Affairs-  Mr Dexter  was the administrative arm of that body. This troika or this trinity, depending on what attitude one takes, has been invoked periodically to look at and advise upon very difficult problems. Successive Ministers- I was certainly no exception- found the Council's contributions invaluable. The trio came together 9 years ago to give effect to the decision of the Australian people made by referendum to grant power and responsibility for Aboriginal affairs to the Australian Parliament. This objective, to a large degree, has been accomplished and the Council for Aboriginal Affairs has fulfilled a very useful role in negotiating the transfer of responsibility and personnel from State government's to the Australian Government. 
Its efforts culminated in the Aboriginal Affairs (Arrangements with the States) Act 1973. That does not sound much when one mentions it as cursorily as that but it involved a great deal of highly diplomatic and sensitive negotiations. Successive governments have, to a large degree, given effect to the wish of the people. But I take this opportunity to express regret that in recent times there has been a departure from this objectivity, particuarly in regard to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill in which the Commonwealth appears to be abrogating some of its responsibility by passing it over to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. 
The difficulties that the Council encountered in its efforts to transfer power and responsibility from the States to the Commonwealth are worth mentioning. Generally, the States complied- in fact it is fair to say that all States complied after a little time- with the exception of the Queensland Government which bucked the will of the people. Even the very accomplished Council for Aboriginal Affairs could not improve on or make inroads into this situation. As a sequel, it was necessary for the Australian Government to introduce the Racial Discrimination Act and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act which was assented to on 19 June 1975. The Council has done a great deal towards providing advice in respect of the structuring of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who obviously should be given the opportunity to speak on this matter as the first Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the Labor Government- that government of innovation in respect of Aboriginal affairs- would be able to indicate the extent to which the Council was able to make useful contributions in this regard. It would take a long time to enunciate all the Council's activites. I do not want to take up the time of the House. All members of the Council rendered advice to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. During my time as Minister and subsequently, the Council has rendered invaluable service in regard to safeguarding the interests of Torres Strait Islanders in its negotiations with Papua New Guinea. That part of its operations was not so difficult, but in respect of steering a middle course keeping in mind the Commonwealth's interest, the interests of the Torres Strait Islanders and the interest of the Queensland Government, the Council certainly demonstrated its outstanding sensitivities and capacities. 
I think the Minister will acknowledge- I readily do as a former Minister- the work that was carried out by the Council in identifying the trend towards outstations, particularly on the part of the people of Arnhem Land who were seeking to return in large numbers and large groups to their traditional lands. Of course, it is an important matter for the Australian Government to identify the justification of and reasons for this movement to outstations for the purpose of establishing the extent to which it is appropriate for an Australian Government to support, encourage and, indeed, underwrite this movement towards outstations. A great deal of services will follow in the wake of such a move. 
The Council also has assisted the Government in regard to the intrusion of miners into Aboriginal lands. It has provided advice about the effect of mining development on the part of Nabalco Pty Ltd at Gove and Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Groote Eylandt in respect of the manganese deposits. Subsequently, the Council examined the Weipa situation where Comalco Ltd is involved. It also has examined the Aurukun position where a new consortium is seeking now to obtain the approval of the Aboriginal people to exploit the lease which has been granted for mining purposes. Valuable reports have been provided by the Council in relation to Yuendumu- I might just mention as an aside that this involves the Tanami question and the quest of the Aboriginal people who live there, a quest which has been denied by this Government up to date, for the granting of land in their Aborginal areas- and Hooker Creek, and there was a report on Arnhem Land in 1975. The Council made a valuable submission to the Ranger inquiry about the impact of mining on Aboriginal communities in 1976. 
Over the years the honourable member for Wills,  Senator Cavanagh  and I took advice about the initiatives of the Labor Party in respect of the establishment of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the establishment of Aboriginal housing associations, Aboriginal Hostels Ltd, the Aboriginal Loans Commission, the Aboriginal secondary grants schemes, the Aboriginal study grants scheme, the Aboriginal Legal Service, the Aboriginal Medical Service and the Aboriginal Arts Board. Now we come to the winding up of the Council and I want to say that I believe this marks a milestone in the progress of Aboriginal people. 
The Labor Party objective was and still is to establish and dignify the National Aboriginal Congress. I am pleased that the Government is accepting the lead it was given in that regard. The Council, like everything else, is not without its faults, but I believe it served its purpose. May it rest in peace. Together with that peace may its members have a sense of justifiable gratification for a job well done, one which I think will advance the interests of the Aboriginal people. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the value of gifts received by (a) Ministers and (b) their wives in the period since 1 1 November 1975. 
Which of these gifts has subsequently been purchased by the Minister, and for what amount. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What amounts of aid were provided for pre-schools in each of the years 1969-70 to 1975-76. 
What amount is appropriated for 1976-77. 
What sum was paid to each pre-school in each of the years 1969-70 to 1975-76. 
What amount is to be paid to each pre-school during 1976-77. 
Which of these pre-schools provide (a) full day care, (b) full day holiday programs, (c) part day holiday programs and (d) non-five daycare. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What action has been taken to implement the recommendations of the Australian Sports Institute study group which reported to the Parliament in November 1 975. 
In particular, what action has been taken to implement those recommendations relating to the establishment of ( a ) a national system of coaching accreditation- recommendation 5 (b) a system of multi-level coaching courses- recommendation 6 and (c) professional training in sports coaching in association with tertiary education institutions- recommendation 7. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government ever contributed financial assistance in respect of the maintenance and development of Captain Cook's landing place and environs at Kurnell, New South Wales; if so what are the details. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) If, as he told me on 4 November 1976  (Hansard,  page 2427), he does not propose to depart from the principle that the costs of operating the 4 official establishments should be regarded as a total charge against the annual Budget appropriation, why did he give the separate cost of 2 of them on 24 March 1976  (Hansard,  page 936). 
Which distinguished overseas guests have stayed at Kirribilli House in 1976, and on which dates did each of them stay there. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice: 
Which recommendations of the Toose report on the repatriation system have not been implemented' 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice: 
What expenditure has been incurred and what repayments have been made under the Defence Service Homes Act since its inception. 
2 ) What is the present waiting period for loans. 
3 ) What is the average loan. 
What is the average period of repayment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What land is held in each State for Defence Service Homes projects. 
In each development (a) what area is held, (b) what was the value at time of purchase and (c) what is the present value. 
-Did the Treasurer, in his devaluation statement, cite wage increases, especially the 2.2 per cent September quarter increase, as a major reason for devaluation? Does he recall that his Budget Paper No. 1 estimated that average earnings would increase by 12 per cent this financial year? How does he reconcile the 2 matters? 
I move: 
Omit paragraph 1 (b) and substitute the following paragraphs: 
The operation of laws of the Northern Territory which affect Aboriginal land, in particular laws relating to: 
entry to Aboriginal land; 
protection of sacred sites; 
wildlife conservation; 
entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land; 
roads upon Aboriginal land, and 
right of entry upon pastoral property. (ba) The effect of mining operations, including exploration and prospecting operations, on aboriginal land or land which is claimed by Aborigines, and*. 
I am disadvantaged in this debate because it appears that the terms of reference proposed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  have not been circulated. If I am correct in saying that, all members are disadvantaged as I am. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has this tendency to engage in a bit of  ad hockery.  When it is all said and done the matter about which we are talking is not scheduled to be debated until the House has dealt with the Defence Services Homes Amendment Bill. It is just fortuitous that several members of the Opposition who are actively involved in this matter happened to be in the House at present. This is not the first occasion on which the Minister has sprung this kind of surprise. I think that we are entitled to a little more consideration. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)There is no point of order as this is not a matter upon which the Chair can decide. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am not averse to any initiative that the honourable member for Hotham might want to take in that regard. I am prepared to bat on in view of the fact that we are like riding school horses heading for home. The amendment that I have moved on behalf of the Opposition is intended to widen the reference of the proposed committee to include control of roads over Aboriginal land and also to cover the question of entry to pastoral properties. Both of these matters have been referred to extensively by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward. They have been a subject of considerable debate in recent days. They have also been the subject of amendments. It would seem to me that honourable members on both sides of the House would acknowledge that they are questions of very great significance and importance to the Aboriginal people. The amendment proposes an additional term of reference to include in the Committee 's functions oversight of exploration and exploitation of Aboriginal lands by mining interests, including those grants made under the proclamation sections of the land rights Bill where Aboriginal consent to mining was mandatory. 
The situation generally is that the Opposition is not impressed with the fact that the appointment of this Committee has become necessary at ail. It has been the view of the Opposition that these matters which are to be the subject of the inquiry to be undertaken by the joint committee should have been retained as responsibilities of the Australian Parliament. I might just take the opportunity to mention that on 27 May 1967 the referendum seeking to give power to the Commonwealth in respect of Aboriginal matters was carried overwhelmingly by the people. That proposal sought to remove any ground for the belief that the Constitution discriminated against people of the Aboriginal race and at the same time to make it possible for the Commonwealth Parliament to enact special laws for those people. The proposal was carried in all States. A total of 5 183 113 people voted for the proposition and 527 007 voted against. In other words there was a massive majority of 4 656 106 people who said as distinctly and as clearly as they possibly could that they wanted the Australian Government to accept responsibility in respect of Aboriginal affairs. 
The fact that this Government has been unprepared to take responsibility in respect of a number of matters gives cause for very grave concern. We have indicated that we have no alternative but to participate in the process that is now being offered to us. If the Government is to turn responsibility over to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory for such important matters as sacred sites and access to Aboriginal lands we certainly would want to be involved in a process of scrutiny. But we do not want to be in it in a half-baked way. We want to get into it effectively in respect of all the issues and not just the ones that the Minister has mentioned. 
Why is it that the Minister has excluded from the committee's proposed area of inquiry the question of the control of roads over Aboriginal land? Why has he deliberately omitted the need for the committee to investigate this very serious problem of Aboriginal entry to pastoral properties? I believe that the whole area of the Ranger inquiry, the question of mining by Nabalco Pty Ltd at Gove, the operations of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Groote Eylandt and other mining operations in other parts of the Territory could stand the scrutiny of the committee as well. I regard this whole proposition as a backward step. The people of Australia have spoken on this matter. 
Only this week when we were talking about winding up the Council for Aboriginal Affairs I drew attention to the fact that the Council had been involved for a long time in co-operating with the States and in arranging for a transfer of power from the State governments to the Australian Government in respect of Aboriginal matters. In October 1973 the Aboriginal Affairs (Arrangements with the States) Act was passed. The effect of that legislation is that five of the six States have relinquished almost all of their involvement with Aboriginal affairs, Queensland being the only State refusing to co-operate in terms of the will of the people as expressed in the 1967 referendum. 
That is what has been happening; that is what was caused to happen under the Labor Government which gave effect to the wish of the people. To turn these activities over to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory is tantamount to turning the clock back. It is like giving all of the other responsibilities for Aboriginal affairs back to the States in which case we would get varying degrees of enthusiasm and varying degrees of neglect. There would be an enormous differential from one State to the other. Moreover, there would be financial deficiencies in that some States would not attribute the sense of priority to Aboriginal problems that others might. Obviously the Commonwealth has a responsibility in this respect. On consideration of these matters one can see that the proposed committee has an important job to do. 
The Opposition will co-operate with the committee. It is intended that the committee should comprise the eight members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and 6 senators. This means that 14 people from the 2 Houses of Parliament will comprise this joint committee. The Opposition will join the committee and, as it has done in the past in regard to other Aboriginal problems, play its part enthusiastically. But I believe that once we go about our business we ought not to adopt a half-baked approach. I ask the Minister earnestly to consider accepting the amendment that has been put to him in good faith so that we can ensure that all of these matters are thoroughly investigated and the best interests of the Aboriginal people can be adequately served. 
-The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  could easily give the unsuspecting the impression that nothing of significance is involved in this legislation. He seemed to convey the idea that we are dealing with an innocuous matter, whereas, in fact, the Parliament at this time is actually taking a decision to abolish the Australian Housing Corporation as it has been known and understood. There is nothing provided for in this legislation at the present time which brings advantage to ex-servicemen in any way. The Bill is designed simply to take that Housing Corporation, with all its great objectivity and characteristics designed to assist people to obtain houses in Australia and to whittle it down to an authority which will do nothing more than administer the Defence Service Homes Scheme. That is the whole essence of the Bill. In other words, we are involved in the Government's pursuance of devolution, this attempt to brush out of the records the reforms of the Labor Government. We have seen this happen in respect to many other matters. We have seen the mutilation of Medibank and the destruction of the Australian Assistance Plan. This insidious campaign is going on and on. 
I remember the great debates that look place when the legislation to establish the Australian Housing Corporation was introduced. I was the Minister for Housing and Construction who introduced the Bill in 1975. On that occasion I said: 
The Australian Housing Corporation proposed in this Bill permits us to explore a fresh field of endeavour, that of direct relations between government and private enterprise, and between government and non-prom organisations, in the housing of the large number of ordinary Australian families. 
I went on: 
It is an anomaly of policy in this country that although the Australian Government possesses a substantial reserve of power in the housing field, that power has never been fully gathered together, concentrated and mobilised for the benefit of the people. 
Through the Housing Corporation the Labor Government was attempting to do just that. It was the most significant legislation since the Chifley Government negotiated the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement in 1945. Honourable gentlemen know that over 280 000 houses have been built as a result of that legislation. But, of course, much more remains to be done. The Housing Commissions have concentrated on caring for poorer families, but other forms of assistance for housing are needed in Australia at the present time. I will not go into the figures because the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  who spoke earlier, has outlined the difficulty faced by people, even people who are comparatively well off, in obtaining a housing loan. 
The Labor Government looked at the constitutionality that was available to it. It was to the effect that nobody would quibble about an Australian Government asserting its role and rights in regard to the housing needs of migrants, servicemen, ex-servicemen, persons living in the Territories, students, employees of the Australian Government or contractors to the Government and their employees. The former Government saw that responsibility and legislation in respect of those categories of people were spread amongst different departments and different enactments. There was a need to contrive a corporation which would be the housing authority of the Australian Government so that this area could be run effectively and so that there would be some consistency of philosophy and benefit. In addition to assisting those categories of people, the Labor Government was able to establish that under the family allowances powers of the Constitution, it was competent for an Australian Government to provide a very wide range of assistance to the average home seeker in the Australian community. That view, which I contrived, nurtured and pursued was finally endorsed by the Attorney-General of the day and, under that general umbrella, the 
Housing Corporation came into being. The purpose of the Corporation was to strengthen AustralianGovernment machinery to perform those housing functions for which it has constitutional power. The Labor Government wanted to provide the Government with a vehicle capable of flexible and energetic initiatives to enable current housing problems to be overcome. 
The Corporation was primarily to be a lending institution to make housing loans to home seekers within the Australian Government's constitutional responsibilities, including the categories of people I have mentioned. It was to have powers similar to those contained in the Defence Service Homes Act. Indeed, it was to administer the Defence Service Homes Act. Among the initiatives which the Labor Government had in mind and which I certainly had under active consideration by officers of the Department at the time I ceased to be Minister for Housing and Construction, were initiatives to provide second mortgage loans to cover the deposit gap for young couples; to direct loans to special hardship cases; to provide loans for private enterprise building and to assist in limiting rentals. The Labor Government intended to provide loans to co-operative building societies providing middle income housing. Today, this Government is abdicating its responsibilities in this regard. The Labor Government wanted to do the things I have mentioned. It wanted to cooperate with private enterprise directly and openly and without inhibition in the creation of good standard housing for people with moderate incomes. 
All honourable members will be aware of the conditions that prevail at the present time. The predominance of financial resources available for housing from the Australian Government goes to people on a limited income- people whose income does not exceed 85 per cent of average weekly earnings, and people who qualify for assistance from the State housing authorities. Those people whose income does not exceed 95 per cent of average weekly earnings can qualify for loans from the terminating building societies which are financed by the Australian Government. Today there are people whose income is higher than the levels to which I have referred- people who are on the average weekly earnings and even above the average weekly earningswho are unable to attract a building loan for reasons enunciated in detail by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  For example, if one had a loan of $22,500 from a building society repayable over 20 years to 25 years at 1 1 per cent, the repayment rate is $220 a month. In order to pay $220 a month a family would need to have an income of $220 a week if the objective of not requiring people to pay more than 25 per cent of their income for housing purposes is to apply. Of course, there are many people whose income does not reach that level and they will need assistance. 
The contention has been made that the Australian Housing Corporation would duplicate the efforts of the States, despite the repeated assurances that I gave on behalf of the Government when I introduced the Australian Housing Corporation legislation that that would not be the case. We readily acknowledged the important work being done by the States and greatly increased allocations for housing commission purposes from about $160m to $385m a year. We recognised that there was another tier of people who needed assistance. The Housing Corporation was going to set about that kind of process. The Labor Government would have supported people - 
-I think it is the predominant tier in Australia at the present time. It is probably about 80 per cent - 
I would say so, yes. I notice that the Government Whip is looking impatiently at me and I suppose he will want me to conclude my speech in about 5 minutes from now. The Labor Government certainly wanted to assist people overcome the deposit gap because one in five of Australian families at present have to go to finance companies. There are many ways of providing second mortgages. We could have provided second mortgages up to $5,000 to first home buyers who were unable to bridge the deposit gap. Those people could have paid back the loan at low interest rates over an extended period of time. We would have assisted people who are suffering hardship as a result of interest rates increasing or as a result of unemployment. 
In short, the many initiatives that the Labor Government had in mind were emulative of the initiatives being taken in other parts of the world. Before I introduced legislation dealing with this matter in 1975 I went to the United States of America and to Canada to study the bodies which were operating in those countries and which were comparable to the Australian Housing Corporation. The proposition that is being put by this Government seems to me to be incredible. It is to the effect that Australia can go it alone as a country without competent Federal authorities to fulfil the housing needs of the Australian people. In many respects the Corporation that I proposed was similar to the corporation that operates in Ontario and similar to bodies operating in the United States of America. I say to the Minister that he cannot continue on this destructive course. Australia will face grave housing problems unless this Government starts to show initiative and take effective action in relation to the housing problems in Australia. 
This legislation is disastrous in that it takes away from the Australian Government and the Australian people an instrument which could have been extremely effective in moderating housing activity around Australia, sustaining a degree of construction buoyancy and levelling out the funding of housing by way of assisting those people with the type of support they need to get into the home buying and home renting processes. I deplore what is happening today and I am sorry that we do not have more time to deal with this matter. I assure the Parliament and the people that on the re-election of a Labor government the Austraiian Housing Corporation will be re-instituted. It will be supported generously with government funds and it will assist young people and others in Australia to obtain adequate housing. 
asked the Attorney-General upon notice: 
1 ) What recommendations of the second main Report of the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, entitled  Report on Law and Poverty in Australia,  have not been implemented. 
When will these recommendations be acted upon. 
I wish to raise briefly one aspect of this reference. I ask the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  before this proposal becomes the subject of an extensive and perhaps costly inquiry, whether on the one hand it has been officially decided by the Government that one place or other in the Northern Territory is to be the location of things governmental or, on the other hand, has it been decided that such facilities as that proposed in the reference, governmental services and the like involving the construction of buildings should be distributed throughout the Territory? I know that there is a philosophy to the effect that it would be advantageous to the people of the Northern Territory to have such facilities as courts and other governmental services in one place. There is also the contrary view. Can the Minister say whether in fact this question has been determined and whether the proposal is being put in the context of such a determination. 
-The Opposition does not support the amendments but I take the opportunity to say a few words about them. Although we are in the Committee of the Whole I shall widen my remarks just a little as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  chose to do. I thank the Minister for the explanations which he has taken the trouble to give on this occasion. We appreciate that elucidation. The same kind of support might have been useful through the other processes of debate. The proposals which are now before the Committee are quite consistent with the attitude which the Government has expressed through the course of the debate in this House and in the other place. As I interpret them, they involve tidying up and giving more satisfactory legal effect to the proposals which the Government had in mind. 
There are 5 amendments, one to the definitions, one to clause 40, two to clause 43 and one in the form of an addition to the schedules of the Bill. Very largely the amendments all revolve around the Groote Eylandt situation where 
Broken Hill Pty Company Limited is exploiting its manganese deposits. I suppose there has been some representation again from the Mining Industry Council seeking to make the matter watertight from the standpoint of mining interests. There has certainly been a very assiduous application to the interests of the miners. I cannot help but feel that there has been some deficiency in terms of the enthusiasm with which the interests of the Aboriginal people have been considered. 
There has been a departure in attitudes to mining questions since this Government first introduced its legislation. The Committee will recall that the lead legislation was a Labor contrivance, and I had the honour of introducing it in 1975. That legislation was near to passing the processes of the Parliament when the events of 11 November 1975 occurred. Subsequently the Minister brought down a Bill, and from that point there has been this great intent about safeguarding the interests of the rnining concerns of the Northern Territory. That is what we are really discussing even in the dying stages of this debate. We have heard what the Minister said about Groote Eylandt, that the company has a 2 1 -year lease up there and a 2 1 -year option. The purposes of the amendment, generally speaking, are to ensure that additional leases can be granted. In their totality the amendments have the effect of removing the necessity to obtain Aboriginal consent for expansion of that mining operation. 
The Opposition in this Parliament is not opposed to mining in the Northern Territory. It would be very wrong for anybody to construe from anything that has been said in this place or in another place that the Opposition has an unending hostility to mining activities in the Northern Territory. But what we have been encouraging the Government and the Minister to accept and believe is that there is now, as a consequence of this legislation, a new era. There is a new day dawning, or there ought to be a new day dawning, for Aboriginal people. I know that this matter concerns contracts. The Minister has mentioned the fact that the company is honouring its part of the contract, and we appreciate that. It as already constructed its smelter, and its agglomeration plant which does not have to be completed until June 1980 is close to completion. So it is important to honour the contracts. 
Today the Minister cited  Mr Justice  Woodward. There are other quotations relevant to the matter that could be mentioned at this time, to the effect of giving more consideration to Aboriginal mining interests. We do not have any tendency at all to abrogate the contract of the company at Grotte Eylandt but what we emphasise is that in this situation, like all other situations, we ought to accept that there is a new land rights deal. There are other safeguards in the legislation which are to the effect that when the Aboriginal people go together to meet the mining interests and to seek to uphold their own best interests, if this is not achieved in a mutually acceptable way they can resort to an arbitration process. It seems to me that we should be accepting the concept of Aboriginal people having the right to go in and re-negotiate conditions. When a company takes over a great lump of land on Groote Eylandt the lifestyle of the people is affected very substantially. When a smelter or new agglomeration plant is built a new white population has to expand in that situation. There have to be more roads, houses and maybe more licensed clubs. In every respect the well being of the Aboriginal people is affected. Even the extent to which they can hunt over that relatively small island is very seriously affected. In that situation people should be able to sit down and do some effective re-negotiating. Here we have removed the provisions which enable adjustments of money to be made in consideration of these intrusions. 
Let me say in a more general way that the Opposition is concerned about the Government's refusal to accept its constitutional responsibility for Aboriginal affairs which was overwhelmingly supported in the 1967 referendum. These matters have been highlighted by the transfer of 4 important matters to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I will not go into them in depth; I just want to mention them cursorily. The first matter is the transfer of responsibility to the Assembly for the control of Aboriginal sacred sites. That attitude is contrary to the view taken by  Mr Justice  Woodward. The second matter is the issue of entry permits to Aboriginal land. That is another matter that has been relegated to the Assembly. The question of access to territorial seas adjoining Aboriginal land is the third matter, and the control of entry to pastoral properties is the fourth matter. All of these were recommended for Commonwealth legislation by  Mr Justice  Woodward. The Committee now knows what the Minister proposes. There is to be a compromise situation whereby the Assembly will do some work on this legislation and the Minister will be consulted. We are to have a committee looking at it. But the point is that it is a backward step. We still feel very strongly about that question. 
The other matter of very great concern is the fact that the Government has rejected amendments which would have made.possible grants of land to Aborigines on the basis of need. We say again that this will deprive those Aborigines described as fringe dwellers and those of mixed ancestry of the possibility of occupying or owning their own land. Of course we are very concerned about the deletion of the Tanami Desert from the schedule of Aboriginal land. I take this opportunity of saying that since 1935- some 40 years ago- there have been continuous attempts to have this land declared Aboriginal land. It is desert land. Some wildlife and conservation factors have to be taken into account. No one could take them into account better, under prescribed guidelines, than the Aboriginal people. The Opposition believes that the deletion of this land is an insult to the Walpiri people, the largest tribe in the Northern Territory. I have no doubt that people who are concerned about Aboriginal affairs, people from one end of Australia to the other, will not rest until this land is returned to them. 
I join with the Minister in paying tribute to all people who have been involved in the preparation and passage of this legislation. I refer to  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward, the Aboriginal Land Councils, the Aboriginal Legal Service and people like  Mr Geoff  Eames who have been supporting the Aboriginal people in their attempt to obtain a proper understanding and comprehension of this legislation. I certainly hope that, despite our differences, with the passage of time the initiatives which were instituted as a result of the election pledge of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was leading the Labor Party into the 1 972 election, to give land rights to Aboriginals, will come to fruition. Whether it comes to fruition in a desirable way under this Government is not the point. As long as it is achieved we will be pleased that that progress has been made. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many outstanding applications for telephones exist in each telephone exchange district in Australia. 
On what date was the longest outstanding application made in each district. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What senior Public Service, advisory or managerial appointments have been made by the Federal Government since 1 1 November 1973, and what are the qualifications of each appointee. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many foreign nationals have been assisted by the Government to tour Australia since 13 December 1975. 
What was the purpose of each visit, and what was the cost to the Government of each visit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What monthly expenditure on (a) Commonwealth cars, (b) other car services, (c) Government air services and (d) other air services, has been incurred by each Minister at present in office since appointment. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What VIP flights has the Governor-General undertaken since 1 1 November 1975. 
Who accompanied the Governor-General on these flights. 
) What was the cost of each flight. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What has been the (a) number and (b) cost of prescriptions for milk substitutes issued under the schedules of the National Health Act in each year since milk substitutes were included as an item. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Aboriginal Black Theatre Arts and Culture Centre of Sydney submit a proposed budget to his Department for the financial year 1976-77 earlierin 1976. 
If so, has this submission been considered by him or his Department. 
If so, has the Centre received notification of the Department's proposed allocation. 
Has this Centre made a valuable contribution to the Aboriginal community through its plays and other cultural pursuits. 
Will he ensure that this body receives adequate financial assistance to maintain its operations. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received correspondence from Aboriginal communities objecting to sub-clause 30(9) of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill. 
Is it a fact that the clause could be seen as excluding non-Aboriginals from the lawful jurisdiction of Aboriginal Councils. 
Will he consider amending the legislation to delete the clause objected to before the Bill is proclaimed. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has drawn the attention of the House to the very serious implications contained in the Government's intention to renegotiate the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. This proposal to increase interest rates on welfare housing loans has caused intense anxiety and alarm throughout Australia. Low income earners' hopes for adequate housing have been dashed, and those renting or purchasing State housing authority homes are fearful of a massive upward spiral in rent or repayments in cases where houses are being purchased. Let me remind the House of the history of Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. With the limited time at my disposal, I am obviously unable to give the history in detail. It is sufficient to say that successive Liberal-Country Party governments have never shown enthusiasm for the States' housing programs for low income earners. They have always kept interest rates for the welfare housing program at a high level, generally providing only a one per cent advantage against the bond rate. If the Agreement were changed in terms of traditional Liberal-National Country Party policy, the interest rate, which at present stands at 4 per cent under the Agreement negotiated by the Labor Government, would increase to a figure slightly over 9 per cent- to one per cent less than the Commonwealth bond rate. That would have disastrous effects on the provision of housing for low income earners. 
Honourable gentlemen will recall that the purposeof the Housing Agreement was to provide adequate accommodation, reflecting economic rentals, to which has been added a rental rebate system for those whose income is exceptionally low. The rebate system varies from State to State. There is scope to moderate and improve that system. The primary requirement is that the economic rental system, which I as former Minister for Housing and Construction encouraged the States to uphold, operates effectively. If it is applied in the proper manner it will ensure that nobody whose income rises will be getting a home at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. There is no need to jettison that scheme. It has provisions which, with some adjustment and moderation, can prevent the exploitation of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement and the housing commission program as we know it. The Agreement provided that up to 30 per cent of funds went to terminating building societies, at interest rates not exceeding  5lA  per cent. This is a very important consideration for that medium income range of people whose income does not exceed 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. Another intention of that Agreement was to build up a stock of rental housing so that no more than 30 per cent of completed homes could be sold. We wanted young people to have the opportunity to pass through the housing commission system, to gain the benefit of a low rental for a considerable time, enabling them to have every opportunity to save which would enable them, in turn, to raise a deposit for a loan through a bank or a building society. Previously houses were being sold and resold, and sometimes bulldozed down to make way for flats in the inner city suburbs which workers could not afford. 
We had this Agreement with all its virtues. If the Government abandons it, as the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  is apparently contemplating, the effect could be disastrous in many ways. The housing commissions of the various States have contrived a tender system which screws down the cost to a very competitive level. Probably no private contractor is able to turn out houses more competitively than the housing commissions are, even using private contractors, because that tender system is so tight and competitive, Moreover, if one abandons the housing commission system and the Housing Agreement one jettisons the benefit of the economic assembly of land processes. Land is bought in parcels. That does not mean that people in housing commission homes have to be congregated together. In Western Australia, a State which runs its Housing Commission quite effectively- this applies to other States as wellthere is a deliberate policy of mixing the income strata of people by selling some of the land acquired by the Housing Commission so that home ownership can take place and the socioeconomic groups can be dispersed on that basis. 
What is the reaction of the State Premiers to the proposal to raise interest rates in the Housing Agreement?  Mr Wran  condemned the idea. He said it would mean that a typical Housing Commission rent of $32 a week would more than double in 18 months. He said rent for a new Commission house could rise to $80 per week or more.  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, said that the proposal would have a disastrous effect on rents and loans. He said that this would put home ownership beyond the reach of a very wide section of the Australian community. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  interjects and says that they are all Labor premiers. I have mentioned two of them. I will mention a third Labor premier.  Mr Neilson  of Tasmania accused the Federal Government of turning its back on welfare housing for low income earners generally. He has called for a special Premiers Conference to discuss the proposal which he said would force State housing department rents up by as much as $ 1 2 a week. 
What of the other Premiers? How about their obligation to low income people and to the provision of low income housing? The best that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  could say was: 'But let us just wait and see if it happens first'. Is that a good thing? That is his extent of concern for low income people.  Mr Hayes,  the Victorian Government's spokesman on housing, said that the adoption of the proposal would mean State governments paying 10.5 per cent on money borrowed for welfare housing. At least he is showing concern. Of course, there did not seem to be any response at all in Western Australia. I wonder whether the people of Western Australia, who are to go to the polling booths on Saturday, will have regard for the fact that the Premier of their State has raised no objection at all to this iniquitous proposition which will jack up the cost of Housing Commission homes to such a level that they will be beyond the reach of people seeking them. I wonder whether the people realise that if they want to protect the Housing Commission system and if low income earners are to be given the opportunity of obtaining housing- this group includes many young couples who have not had the opportunity to assemble the deposit- they will have to vote for a Labor Government in Western Australia. 
Enormous consequences are involved. A 1 per cent movement in interest rates has an enormous effect. For example, the monthly repayment on a $25,000 loan over 20 years at 7 per cent is $ 193. If the interest rate is taken to 8 per cent the monthly repayment on this loan is $209. If the interest rate is taken to 9 per cent the monthly repayment is $224. At 10 per cent the monthly repayment is $241. Under the proposal put forward by the Minister, Housing Agreement interest rates could spiral from 4 per cent to 9 per cent plus. Of course, there is a proposal to introduce a new scheme- the housing assistance voucher experiment scheme, known as the HAVE scheme. If one had time it would be possible to indicate that that scheme is no substitute for the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I warn the Parliament that the Government's proposal puts at risk the terminating building society movement in Australia. I hold in my hand an appeal from the  president  of that organisation to fight to sustain assistance for low income housing. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Without keeping the House for any undue length of time may I commend the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for exposing a range of considerations which have not been referred to by the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay).  I must say that I am personally intrigued with the proposal- I am certainly not antagonistic to it; I would not want to give that impression- that there ought to be extensions to the HMA Naval Dockyard at Williamstown at a time when dockyard facilities in Australia are standing in heavy surplus and retrenchments are the order of the day. Perhaps there are some special requirements for naval dockyards. But I know that at Garden Island in Sydney there are frequent problems concerning the availability of employment and a very great degree of uncertainty pervades that establishment. 
That has certainly been the case in Newcastle. I think that the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  in seeking the endorsement of the 356 REPRESENTATIVES 23 February 1977  HMA Naval Dockyard, Williamstown 
House for this expenditure-frankly, I do not know the amount that is involved in the construction of the Naval Dockyard at Williamstown and the modernisation of facilities there-ought to be making out a case of justification. There are shipyards in many parts of Australia and there are facilities at HMAS  Stirling  as well. It would seem to me that if one is seeking to justify the substantial expenditure which must be involved for this purpose, in a situation where there is excess capacity in the commercial shipbuilding area, it is necessary to provide information about the deployment of the fleet. How much of our fleet, for example, is to be sensibly deployed in the southern parts of Australia as compared with the west, the north and the north-eastern coast line? Is Melbourne, in fact, the place to locate this facility. 
I put it to the House that the Minister appears to me to be treating this matter in a fairly cursory and cavalier way. As one who has had the job on many occasions, as a former Minister for Works, of justifying public works expenditure, I have always found it necessary and to be an obligation to equip myself with a case that I thought would be adequate to satisfy both the Parliament and the people. The amount of money involved - $24m- is no mean amount. I know that the Minister is the builder and that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  might be expected to know more about these things than the Minister for Construction, but the Government has an obligation to make out a case in these times when it is possible to spend $24m in ways that could be extremely advantageous to many areas of deprivation in Australia. I ask the Minister either to indicate his capacity to placate the anxiety of the Parliament about this matter or to call for help from some other Minister. 
-The Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill together with those subsidiary Bills passed last night have been introduced for two principal reasons. The first reason in my view is to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act and subsidiary legislation to take account of the decision of the High Court in the 2 constitutional cases decided in December and early this month. The second reason is to introduce yet another method of protecting the National Country Party from political annihilation. While the Government may justly claim a responsibility to legislate to cover the former, neither the High Court's decisions nor the Government's election rhetoric justify the latter. Only the preservation instincts of the National Country Party members who so envy the gerrymander perpetrated in Queensland justify the inclusion m this legislation of the amendment protecting large electorates. I will have more to say on that aspect in just a few moments. 
The 2 decisions of the High Court that have necessitated the amendments now proposed by the Government both concern the interpretation of section 24 of the Constitution. That section provides- and was given legislative effect by section 10 of the Representation Act of 1905- that a number equal to twice the number of senators is to be divided into the number of the people of the Commonwealth as ascertained by census but excluding those citizens who reside in the Territories. This quota is then divided into the population of each State to ascertain the number of seats each State is entitled to have. Until 1964, when a previous Liberal-Country Party Government introduced amendments to the Representation Act to the effect that any remainder over the quota entitled a State to another member, additional members were provided only where the quota was exceeded by 50 per cent. In the first of the two recently decided cases, Western Australia against the Commonwealth- it is known as McKinlay's case and was decided in December in 1975- the High Court held that section 24 of the Constitution intended the calculations used for ascertaining the number of members must be made before each general election and therefore held that this required the latest statistics of the Commonwealth to be used. 
The 3 measures introduced by the Government require the Australian Statistician to keep quarterly population figures. They also require him to provide the Chief Australian Electoral Officer with figures relating to the number of people of the Commonwealth and States to enable him to determine the number of members to be chosen for each State. These figures must be provided during the twelfth month of the lifetime of each Parliament. Although the Court found that the method of ascertaining the number of seats was invalid, as the method tied the number of members to the taking of the census, it decided that the 1975 elections could be held on the existing boundaries. Reference has been made to  Mr Justice  Murphy. I wish to quote  Mr Justice  Murphy also. In this matter he dissented from the majority opinion. He held that section 24 of the Constitution required the implementation of the principle of one vote one value, as nearly as practicable. Unfortunately, his brother judges did not display such a fervent dedication to this principle. 
In the most recent decision, handed down earlier this month, in a case in which an elector of New South Wales challenged the validity of certain sections of the electoral Acts, the Court held that the 1964 amendments to the Representation Act- which, by the way, were introduced by the then Attorney-General, the present Chief Justice permitting an extra seat to be created where the quota was not exceeded by 50 per cent, were invalid, as they were offensive to the precept of proportionality and the nexus requirements of section 24. Thus we will revert to the pre- 1964 position, requiring a remainder of over 50 per cent of quota before an additional seat may be created. While the Court firmly stated its belief that this position- one the founding fathers intended- may have disastrous effects on the size of all electorates and while the 'remainder' provision is interpreted as requiring greater than 50 per cent of the quota, the 10 per cent weightage will be excessively used and will burden many city electorates with additional constituentssome electorates by up to 8000- and will necessitate a re-drawing of all existing boundaries in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia where remainders above the quota do not exceed 50 per cent. 
While the Opposition is pleased that the Government has recognised the irresponsibility of its opposition to the 10 per cent weightage factor in the 1974 electoral legislation proposed by the Whitlam Government and passed by the Joint Sitting of this Parliament, we cannot accept the proposition in clause 7 of this Bill that limits the number of electors in large electorates to the number in the smallest electorate. This clumsy attempt to protect the National Country Party, whose members are still smouldering over their failure to have the loading increased to 20 per cent, will hinder the distribution commissioners in their attempts to bring electoral justice to Australia. Electoral legislation could make it possible for a party which achieves a majority of votes, as the Australian Labor Party did in 1955, 1961 and 1969, to be denied government through the loading of electorates which operate against the interests of those residents of the capital cities who make up the bulk of the Australian population. 
Let me make brief reference to an analysis of the last election figures. The Australian Labor Party, with 3 3 13 000 votes, or 42 per cent of the votes, obtained only 36 seats. The Liberal Party with 3 248 000 votes, or 42 per cent of the votes, obtained 68 seats. The National Country Party, with only 853 943 votes, or 1 1 per cent of the votes, obtained 23 seats. It is interesting to note that Labor actually won 64 868 more votes than the Liberal Party in the last election. Such are the iniquitous effects of the electoral provisions that have applied under the provisions of the Electoral Act as determined by the Liberal and Country parties which incorporated that 20 per cent disparity both above and below the electoral quota. 
The commitment of the Australian Labor Party to democracy cannot be challenged. In this regard all members of this Parliament today probably owe a debt to the Leader of the Opposition.  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who has pursued this matter unrelentingly over the years he has been a member of Parliament. This is an attempt to redress the iniquitous blot on the Australian electoral landscape. We have always sought to have electorates in each State as nearly as practicable equal. Our former colleague, now  Mr Justice  Murphy, as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  said just a moment ago, spelt this out during the debate on the 1974 electoral Bill. I want to read it again in the context of the speech I am making because I think it is appropriate to slot it in now. He said: 
Exact equality in the number of electors per division cannot be achieved, nor is it desirable. Some degree of variation from the quota must be allowed. At the same rime equality of political rights is inherent in a true democratic state and the electoral system must not be used to benefit a particular Party and disadvantage the people. 
To the extent that that principle has been identified, recognised and accommodated by the Liberal Party especially- I know it has had to make some kind of diversion from the pursuance of that principle because of its alliance with the Country Party- I pay it some tribute. National Country Party members, both in the other place and in this House, have complained about this legislation, despite their commitment to vote for it, claiming that it disadvantages their constituents. These members ignore the first criterion of the commissioners which states that consideration must be given to the community of interests within the division, including economic, social and regional interests. Yet these members tend to place great stress on the second criterion, which relates to the means of communication and travel within the division. No one on this side of the House disparages the idea that some weight and some consideration should be given to such a factor, but it is the extent to which this consideration is harboured and favoured to which we object. By engaging in this to too great an extent they ignore the diverse problems which the high migrant population poses in inner city electorates- the problems of housing, transport, education and a host of other problems which do not confront country members to the same degree. The hardship faced by members representing densely populated areas is certainly equal to that caused by travel requirements of country members. Yet no provision is made for additional assistance for these members, as is provided by way of increased electoral allowances and access to charter aircraft for those representing country seats. My colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has a very high incidence of migrants in his electorate. My colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  is in a similar position. The honourable member for Grayndler represents a Sydney electorate, whereas the honourable member for Wills is from Victoria. As people Hock into these electorates they create enormous social problems, the consequences of inadequacies of governments over the years. It is very often left to the member in these inner city electorates to grapple with all kinds of human problems. I suggest that in the more stable country areas where the graziers have been living for years there is not the same problem. Certainly there are problems. The same consideration is not given to members who represent city people. 
Under the new system there will be 47 electorates limited in the number of electors because of their size. Of the 43 New South Wales seats in the new Parliament, 14 will be over 5000 square kilometres in size and the weightage in favour of these seats will vary by up to 14 000 electors, the new quota for New South Wales being 7000 electors. I suppose the National Country Party would still like to see that disparity run into 28 000 rather than 14000. Thus an electorate such as the electorate of Grayndler which is at present 22 square kilometres in size but is densely populated, may increase by up to 20 000 electors while the seat held by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  can easily remain exactly as it stands at the present time. 
The second clause which the Opposition is greatly concerned about is clause 10 of the amending Bill. In particular the Opposition is concerned about the proposed sub-section (4) to section 25 of the Principal Act which limits the occasions when a proclamation under section 25 (2) may be made, commencing a redistribution because of imbalance between the electors in the division where 25 per cent of electorates are outside the quota. This new provision would prohibit such a redistribution within 7 years of a previous redistribution. 
If the number of seats for a State alters every 3 years a redistribution will occur and there is no need for an additional redistribution on the grounds of imbalance between the number of electors. However, if the number of seats for a State remains stable, as is more likely, there is no opportunity for a redistribution to correct the imbalance between electorates. In fact there is no guarantee that even when section 25 (2) is satisfied there will be a redistribution as the amendment proposed only prohibits such a redistribution occurring more frequently than every 7 years. The only qualification for this is provided in proposed new sub-section (2) (b) ( 1 1 ) which allows the Governor-General to issue a proclamation 'at such other dmes as he thinks fit', to use the words of the Bill. My view about that is to this effect: In a democratic state the reservation of this power to a GovernorGeneral who has shown that he does not operate on the advice of his Ministers is a reservation of power which this Parliament should not allow. The power to order a redistribution is one which, unless placed firmly in the hands of the Parliament, can quite openly and flagrantly be abused. 
The Opposition is also greatly concerned about the operation of clause 1 1 which adds a new section to take effect if a redistribution is not undertaken in accordance with the Commonwealth Electoral Act and provides for an election to be held at large. This clause does not provide any machinery under which such an election would be held. The flippancy with which the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who is responsible for this legislation, treated queries about this clause in another place and the comments of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  last night, indicate, as is the case with so many other matters of importance, that the Government has not given this matter consideration. Their behaviour indicates that they have no intention of informing the Parliament or the people of Australia how this provision is to operate with regard to such matters as the issuing of writs and the voting procedures. We do not even know, nor does the Chief Australian Electoral Officer have any guidelines to indicate whether we are to have proportional representation, preferential voting or whatever. There is nothing for that matter in respect of ballot papers or many of the other provisions about which guidelines are obviously needed. It is as plain as a pikestaff that if we have to reach that situation where an election at large is held we will see a first-class shemozzle in this country which will make a mockery of the democratic processes. Therefore I believe that the Attorney-General has a great deal to apply himself to in respect of that suggestion. 
Finally, the question of timing remains to be discussed. Proposed new section 24 requires the Governor-General to proclaim the new divisions after a redistribution is approved by Parliament, as soon as practicable and whether or not the House of Representatives has expired or been dissolved since that approval was given. If writs were written for an election of the House of Representatives before the Governor-General proclaimed divisions under proposed section 24, the election would have commenced as defined in 1905 by the High Court and it would seem that the new divisions could not be used. If the redistribution had occurred as a result of a change in the number of seats for a State, it would appear that an election at large for the State would be required for an ordinary general election, while in the case of a snap election the old boundaries would be used. Hopefully it will be always the practice that the GovernorGeneral makes the proclamation under proposed section 24 before the writs are issued if a redistribution has been approved by the Parliament prior to this election. The Opposition acknowledges the progress that has been made but it assures the people that electoral justice will only be completely accomplished when the Labor Government takes office after the next federal election. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I have not prepared a speech tonight. In fact, one of my colleagues has some family problems and has had to leave the House unexpectedly. But I have been inspired in a way to talk following the remarks of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  because I believe that regardless of what he said he has left so much unsaid which needs to be said. So for just a short time I want to make some general comments along the same lines or in respect of the topics that the honourable gentleman has nominated. We have heard the honourable member for North Sydney speak tonight in similar and no more enlightened strain than he did when he first participated in an Address-in-Reply debate many years ago. Usually the early speakers in these debates are the young fledglings of the Parliament and we are accustomed to hearing fairly uninformed but ideological and hopeful comments about the state of the nation. Clearly the remarks made by the honourable gentleman have demonstrated that he is in step with the Government, because the speech that he made is as enlightening as the Government's legislative intentions which were the subject of a speech delivered yesterday by  Her  Majesty at the opening of the Parliament. 
One would not reflect on  Her  Majesty's speech because she was in the unfortunate situation of being provided by the Government of the day with the most inadequate and embarrassing brief that is possible. Those people who speak eulogistically of the monarchy must have felt a real sense of embarrassment to see her in a situation like that where she was handed a piece of paper which demonstrated beyond any doubt that the Government has no legislative intentions- the honourable member for North Sydney who preceded me in the debate made this clear- to undertake any significant reform in respect of the needs of Australia and the well-being of the Australian people. If anybody challenges these comments that I am making I am prepared to go systematically through the speech which  Her 
Majesty delivered in a most accomplished fashion. 
I know something about the way in which such speeches are prepared. Like my other former ministerial colleagues I, as a minister in the previous Government, received a memo from the Prime Minister's Department asking me to submit in synopsis form the intentions of my own Department or my own ministerial legislative intentions. Every Minister received such a memo. The information provided goes to the Prime Minister's Department and it is collated. The Ministers who prevail at the present time were undoubtedly subjected to the same opportunity to indicate whether or not they are worth thensalt, whether or not they have any intentions of doing anything over the next 12 months or whatever is the period involved in this matter. They would have come up with their material, and no doubt the best of that which was submitted was incorporated in Her Majesty's Speech. 
Let us just have a look at what they have done. The preamble to the Speech, of course, is polite, as we would expect. Before I deal with the Speech in detail, and seeing I am making an offthecuff speech, let me give some frank reactions to what occurred yesterday. Summoned in the traditional way by the bells, we came into this House just before 3 o'clock. Thereafter we were subjected to quite a heap of traditionalism. I used to read about history when I was a schoolboy and would think what a great thing it is for Australia that we have never had to go to the barricades to achieve the great traditions and the systems that we enjoy. As I used to walk down Phillip Street and saw the barristers' wigs I would think that they epitomised the great legal system of justice that was forged over the years. The Parliament and its symbols were the product of Runnymede and the great Norman conquest and other battles. Australians have had these things laid out for them on a platter. What a lucky country it is. On the other hand, Vietnam, Laos and the African countries are fighting for these things which have been accomplished, not by us but by the people who preceded us. It is the great heritage of Australians. 
Yesterday after we came into this place we heard the hammering on the door of the House of Representatives, and our Serjeant-at-Arms reported to  Mr Speaker  that the Usher of the Black Rod was at the door.  Mr Speaker  said: 'Admit Black Rod'. He announced that  Her  Majesty the Queen was awaiting the members of the House of Representatives in another place. It flashed through my mind that that symbolised the raid on the House of Commons by King Charles I and the arrest of Pym and Hampden. The Black Rod is now the intermediary. He is the person who takes the place of the monarch who no longer has the right to enter into the House of Commons or the people's Parliament of Britain, or, in this case, the people's Parliament of Australia. Being a traditionalist and a lover of the things that have been achieved for us and a lover of the people who achieved them, and one who has relished those traditions, as honourable members can sense, I suddenly felt sick at the stomach because I realised that that was a set-up and that in fact the Usher of the Black Rod, who was supposed to have been the intermediary and who has to ensure that there is no monarchial intervention in the affairs of this chamber, has been circumvented by other processes. 
All of us who have regard to the events of 1 1 November 1975 can appreciate the extent to which that tradition has run out. It was not the Queen of England who, like King Charles I, intervened in the affairs of the parliamentary process but it was the representative of the monarch in this country. I have little doubt that in the Mother of Parliaments where there is an even healthier appreciation of these great traditional and historical events there could not be such an intervention. In the House of Commons the affairs that occurred here on 1 1 November have been unheard of and would be thought to be impossible. But here in Australia we have seen that process whittled away so that the whole symbolism of the day, especially that part typified by the Usher ofthe Black Rod, was portrayed to me and many other Australians as a sham. 
The first mention by Her Majesty of the Government's stand was in regard to the prosperity of the Australian people depending on the strength of our productive private sector, on the manufacturing, mining and rural industries. 
-If she has changed her mind it is a reflection ofthe fact that the Government has changed its mind. In any event, the Government is still contending that that is the situation, namely, that the well-being of the Aus.tralian people is dependent on the components of our economy to which I have referred. If we analyse the figures- I doubt that time will permit me to go into this too deeply- we come to a very early understanding of the fact that the Government has based its economic recovery on a myth -not a fabricated myth that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  talked about when he referred to the myth of unemployment but a real misunderstanding of the economic situation. 
The myth is the view that there can be a mining-led recovery in this country at the expense of the obvious need to encourage and to facilitate recovery in other parts of the private sector. We are faced today with an alarming situation in which retail trading is falling dramatically and at an unprecedented rate; in which unemployment has reached its highest level since the Depression; and in which farm income is crashing to the extent that we can see a possible fall of about 8 per cent over the next year. Then some reference was made to the intention of the Government to restore the economy and to the claim that it would be making social reforms. We listened patiently to hear spelled out an account of the social reforms. Very soon we heard the following high priority matter mentioned: 
The new family allowance scheme places in every mother's hands an allowance to spend as she thinks is best for the welfare of her family. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  pointed out, this proposition involves a thimble and pea trick by which the money is given to the mothers and taken from the taxation deduction the fathers can claim. In this situation we can consider it as a matter of retrospectivity- as something that has occurred. It is not one of the achievements that is intended by the Government. This was rated very highly indeed. Brief mention was made of education. Nobody knows what the following statement means: 
My Government is improving the existing arrangements in education in pursuit of equality of opportunity for all Australian students. 
Maybe some subsequent  speaker  will spell that out. The housing voucher pilot scheme rated a mention. Honourable members know that this represents the Government's new emphasis upon housing. I see opposite my old friend the Minister for Environment Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who is well known in this Parliament as the 'undertaker of social reforms' because on his own initiative he has jettisoned about twelve or fifteen major programs which were initiated by the Labor Minister for Urban and Regional Development, by myself and by other Ministers of the Labor Government. One of the great ideas that he is harboring at the present time is to solve the housing problem of this nation. We all know about the housing problem; it is quite serious. 
A soldier came to see me recently. He is camped in South Australia- I think in the electorate of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  The soldier pointed out to me that his rent was going up to $27 a week. He did not think that this was reasonable. I took the trouble to work out the amount of rent that would need to be paid on a certain capital outlay. If my memory is correct, we were able to conclude that if a house and land to the value of $13,500 were provided and the owner wanted a 10 per cent return on his investment he probably would have to charge $27 a week in rent. If one goes into the housing investment business one has to receive a 10 per cent return; otherwise one would put one's money into the building societies any of which would pay 10 per cent interest. Such is the state of the nation in respect of housing that even for a house and land worth $13,500 one would have to pay $27 a week. We have reached the stage where this is well beyond the paying capacity of large numbers of Australians. 
In the face of this dilemma- this incapacity to pay- which provides a distressing situation for very many families, the bright idea of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development is that the Government is going to introduce this housing voucher scheme. I do not disparage the scheme altogether, because it ought to have a role to play in the total housing objective of any government. But, according to the priority that this has been given in the speech by  Her  Majesty and, indeed, in Government contentions, publications and Press releases, it seems that this is going to be regarded as the main thrust of the Government's solution of the housing problem. What it is going to mean, of course, is that a large number of people are going to go on to the market with housing vouchers in their hands when there is a great shortage and possibly a negative supply of rental housing. The houses are not there, and if they were there this ill considered patchwork approach to the situation could result only in rents being catapulted to a much higher level than exists at the present time. Meanwhile, we know of the Minister's intention to renegotiate the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement as well and the very great fear that has been expressed by many Premiers that the preferential interest rate for the provision of housing for low income people is going to be abolished or at least substantially raised. 
-The Minister has made that intention clear enough to cause most of the Premiers to express horror at the situation. When all is said and done, we should not be staggered or surprised if this Government were to bring the rate of interest for welfare housing to a level near that of the bond rate, because that is what was done for 23 years under a Liberal-Country Party government. 
I want to summarise a few things very quickly. When the Labor Government was in office it was pilloried, abused and persecuted for 2 principal reasons. The then Opposition contended that our deficit was too large.  Vet  now that the then Opposition is in government it has doubled the deficit proposed by the Labor Government. The then Opposition contended that the rate of inflation was too high. Yet what it has done in government is to lift the rate of inflation from something like 12.4 per cent in the last 6 months of the Labor Government by maybe 3 per cent. Inflation is now running at a rate well in excess of  l5Vi  per cent. So we are able to see the hypocrisy of honourable members opposite. Of course, the situation is going to become serious. As I have said, the Government already has created the highest level of unemployment since the Depression days. Considering what the Government did in respect of devaluation, it is no idle contention on my part to say that because of the devaluation our economy is the laughing stock of the world. I know that the  Far Eastern Economic Review  referred to the Austraiian currency as the 'kangaroo' currency. 
What is the situation? Recently we have been discussing at great length in this Parliament the very devastating news that the consumer price index went up by, I think, 6.9 per cent in the December quarter. We know that that reflects the Medibank shemozzle which is a creation of this Government. But I now ask honourable members opposite- and I would ask the Treasurer if ne were here tonight: What movements will occur in the consumer price index as a direct result of increased import costs caused by devaluation? Will the increases be reflected in a consumer price index increase of over 3 per cent in the months ahead, thus maintaining a high and undesirable level of inflation? The figures revealed for the December quarter have been bad enough, but the prospect for those anxious looking oncers who are sitting opposite in considerable numbers is that the very serious economic trend is not going to be arrested but is going to be seriously aggravated in the first two or three quarters of this year. So, from that cursory glance, it is very clear that this Government has lost its objectivity. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented and seek to make a personal explanation. 
-The matter has been referred to extensively already. The paragraph of an article which was read by my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne, applies also to me. It states:  we have had favourable comments back from other committee members including . . . 
Several names are mentioned and mine is the last so mentioned. I simply want to say that with other members of Party committees I met representatives of the Australian Uranium Producers Forum. My role in that meeting was to ask a number of questions. In fact, I did ask one question which certainly could not be construed to be in support of the Forum's policy. I have had no contact with the International Public Relations organisation. The contention made in the  Nation Reveiw  of 10-16 March 1977 is completely without foundation. 
-I want to address some brief remarks to notice of motion No. 7. As the House will be aware, the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  is putting in this motion the proposition that the effect of standing orders 44, 45 and 46 be supplemented by a new arrangement to the effect that where a member has called attention to the state of the House and there has been a report of tellers which revealed the lack of a quorum the  Speaker,  if he considers it likely that at an appointed time a quorum might be present, will announce that appointed time. In the past the House has had to adjourn if a quorum were not present. So the effect of the proposal is that there will be 2 goes. If a quorum is not present at first, there is an opportunity for another go. There is nothing unprecedented about that because I understand that a provision to the effect is operating in another place at this time. The problem is not unimportant. 
Only a matter of minutes ago I received a paper from the Library, I think, which is headed Adjournment of House of Representatives Due to a Count Out'. I am a bit surprised at the first paragraph which states that the lack of a quorum has caused the adjournment of the House of Representatives on 64 occasions. On ten of those occasions the business of the House was interrupted, and on 54 occasions the count out occurred during the adjournment debate. Then there are a number of pages, the subject matter of which I have not had the opportunity to digest. I notice at the conclusion of the paper a table provides a statistical account of these occasions. It goes back to 1902. It lists the defaults of the Parliament in respect of quorums. The House was counted out with considerable frequency through to the 1920s and 1930s. Then the rate seemed to quieten down a bit. I notice, towards the end of the table, a break from 1954 to 1971 without any crisis in this regard. Apparently a new sense of responsibility obsessed parliamentarians in more recent times. The occasion in 1971 was a very serious crisis. It occurred on 26 August 1971.  Dr Gun,  the then honourable member for Kingston, drew the Speaker's attention to the state of the House. The Government, a Liberal-Country Party Government with 61 members of the House, was unable to attract one-third of the members, which is the requirement for a quorum in terms of section 39 of the Constitution. 
-I am not sure of the interjection of the Leader of the House. If there is any confusion, this incident occurred during the period of a Liberal-Country Party Administration. It rather surprises me that the Government has become sufficiently concerned about this matter that it has raised the matter today, particularly having regard to its present majority. I think that following this event you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I rendezvoused at Kuala Lumpur for a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference. I was a discussion leader on matters pertaining to this problem. The countries represented there were aghast that in a parliament under the Westminster system there could be such a debacle. It was certainly regarded as a very great reflection on the Government of the day. 
-Especially the government of the day. That is precisely the point I want to make to the Country Party which is represented by 2 members in the House at this moment. The situation in 1977 is that there are 127 members in this House. 
-I cannot respond to the interjection made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide since he is out of his seat and in that sense probably cannot be regarded as a member for the moment. At the present time the Government- the Liberal and National Country Parties combined in this chamber- has 91 of the 127 members of the Parliament. I calculate that a quorum, being one-third of those 127 members, is forty four. I am surprised that the Leader of the House doubts the capacity of the Government of the day to assemble 44 members out of its total of 91 members. When all is said and done, a lot less than half of the government supporters would be required to constitute a quorum. 
The fact is, of course, that the Government of the day has the responsibility to provide a quorum. The Government of the day fell down in this respect in 1971. Apparently there is a fear that it might fall down in 1 977. Let me remind the House that the state of play is such that the Opposition cannot provide a quorum in its own right with only 36 members. If all Opposition members were here, as is often the case, there would still be a deficiency of 8 members in constituting a quorum. So the Government cannot pass the buck in respect of this matter. It rests fairly and squarely with the Government. 
I think people outside of this place ought to be concerned that Government supporters do not regard this Parliament as sufficiently important to make certain that they are here in the required numbers. I know that many government supporters feel under threat at the moment. Because of this threat some of them have a tendency to bail out of their parliamentary duties and get back to their electorates-they are skulking around their electorates in the hope of gaining some votes. It is a case of the rats leaving the sinking ship and looking for self survival. But I just remind them that this is the place where they ought to be. The electors of Australia ought to disparage those federal members of the House of Representatives who are back in their electorates while the House is in session and when their place is here. I believe that count outs bring the parliamentary institution into ill repute. I believe it is the responsibility of all Federal members of Parliament to be in this place when the Parliament is sitting. 
As the Leader of the House has indicated, the Opposition will not take issue with this matter to the extent of going to a division. I simply say that it is a matter of very great sadness and remorse, not only for me and my colleagues on this side of the House but also I am sure for the people of Australia, to know that a government of 91 members appears to be confronted with a difficulty in ensuring that forty-four of those members are present in the Parliament of the nation when quorums are called. But apparently this is a safeguard which this Government may need. In any event I can only give this guarantee: Despite the lack of enthusiasm by honourable gentlemen opposite in respect of attending Parliament, the Opposition will continue to play its part in constituting quorums whenever they are called. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before calling the honourable member for Maranoa, I would just like to make one comment in regard to the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I am aware that on the occasion to which the honourable member referred this nation was denied the opportunity of listening to at least one magnificent oration that would have been made that day. I call the honourable member for Maranoa. 
-The Opposition is not opposed to this motion because it re-constitutes a Committee which has been operating for some time now. But I want to say that during the period in which the Parliament has been prorogued there have been some disheartening developments in respect of the Aboriginal and Northern Territory land rights legislation. Contrary to the provisions of this legislation the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has taken on board legislation which is contrary to the principles enunciated by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in that legislation. The Committee, of course, has been operating under the impression that its principal task has been to reconcile the attitude of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory with the attitude of the Government, as expressed by that legislation. It is a very time consuming activity to belong to the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory, particularly because members of the House of Representatives who are involved also have responsibilities in regard to inquiries concerning Aboriginal health and alcoholism among Aborigines. It would be most frustrating if the purposes of the Committee were to be circumvented by the Legislative Assembly. In regard to certain matters affecting off-shore Aboriginal land areas some actions appear to have been taken which are contrary to the spirit of the legislation and the spirit contained in the Government's decision to establish this Committee in the first instance and to re-constitute it now. 
I am certainly not disparaging of the Minister who, I believe, has been betrayed in this matter by the Majority Leader of the Legislative Assembly. I must say in fairness that the Majority Leader of the Legislative Assembly is not a member of the Liberal Party but a member of the National Country Party. I know that the Minister has expressed concern about this circumvention of the decision of this House to have these matters thoroughly investigated by both the House of Representatives and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I congratulate him and I sincerely hope that if there is any further attempt to undermine, sabotage or avoid the objectivity of this Committee, which is spelt out in the motion before the House at the present time, the Minister will continue to effectively represent this Parliament in admonishing the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
-I do not think that the Minister would say that it is a lot of rubbish. I acknowledge the fact that the Minister has stood his ground on this matter in a high-principled way. If he had not, one would find that many members serving on this Committee would not be prepared to serve on it any longer. It would be most frustrating for that to occur. I express the hope that the Minister will continue to pursue high principles in this matter. 
I want to take a few minutes to raise a matter which has come before the House in the form of petitions during the current session of Parliament. In addition this matter has been referred to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on numerous occasions. I am concerned about the disadvantage experienced by people who reside in the perimeter areas of cities especially and also by people who live in country towns when they incur expense in connection with the removal of sullage. Many people in my electorate who live on the perimeter of Sydney, some 20 or 25 miles from the city, incur many disadvantages. They pay a great deal of money in fares to travel to their employment. They do not always enjoy the amenities provided by local government in that their roads are often unsealed and they are without kerbing or guttering, or whatever it is called in the various States. In addition to those kinds of disadvantage they have to rely on sullage removal service. In many instances, because of the terrain of the country- a sandstone geological formation, for example- there is no alternative to a sullage service. 
Members of the National Country Party would probably be interested to know that many of the people whom they claim to represent are affected by this matter. I remember that before the decision was taken by the Labor Government to instal sewerage in Katherine- I do not contend that the National Country Party represents the people in Katherine- sullage removal was a very great and expensive issue indeed. We have ascertained that those people who incur all these additional expenses and who pay through the neck for the removal of sullage, which often is the removal of toilet effluent and sometimes even bathwater and sink water, are unable to claim the expense incurred as a tax deductible item. In completing a tax return, anybody else, of course, who sought the $1,350 deduction would put together a number of different claims, including claims against insurance, rates and medical expenses, education expenses and the like. Of course, they can make a claim of up to $300 in regard to rates and in respect - 
-That is what it is now. That is what it is 14 or 15 months after the election of a Liberal-National Country Party Government. So if an anomaly does exist it is obviously time that the Government took it up. Honourable members opposite cannot go on blaming the Labor Government forever. But the honourable member cannot short circuit me on the matter that I want to raise because it is very important to many thousands of fringe dwellers around this country. The Treasurer, through the Taxation Office, is saying: 'We will not in fact concede any claims in this respect until the local government authorities are able to assess annually the amount of the sullage cost claimed'. Of course, the councils cannot assess annually because the amount involved is in respect of a particular volume of disposal a month or a week over a period of time. 
Obviously there is a communication problem between the Government and the local government authorities. It is a simple matter. They say that they cannot assess annually. But it is a ridiculous situation in which these people continue to be disadvantaged year in and year out. Thousands of people are signing the petition to which I referred. The campaign is gathering very great momentum. It ought not to be necessary to go to such trouble to correct such an apparent anomaly and injustice. I put it the House tonight in the hope that the Treasurer will take notice of the fact that this is one outstanding matter which is very greatly in need of remedy. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Construction. Are careers and employment opportunities in his Department threatened by the effect of an official directive of 4 February, which I hold in my hand, to transfer work from the Department to private consultants? Is this being done despite the high level of expertise in design and construction attained by the Department over the years? How does the Minister justify this directive and the resultant 15 per cent increase in cost? 
-by leaveThe Opposition supports the measure proposed by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and indeed, warmly congratulates the Minister on taking this initiative to its point of culmination. As the Minister has said, in October 1975 agreement was reached with the Schools Commission to set up a permanent advisory group. I think it was back in July 1976 that the Minister for Education made an announcement that this matter was to be proceeded with. In other words, 9 months elapsed from the time when the decision was taken by the previous Government to establish a National Aboriginal Education Committee to the time the announcement was made by the Minister for Education. A similar period has elapsed between then and now. Today the Minister has announced the personnel comprising the committee. The period of gestation for anything to happen under this Government- two 9-monthly cycles- to achieve this modest degree of progress leaves a great deal to be desired. We support this proposal. At least the Minister, unlike some of his colleagues, is not just intent on this policy of devolution; he is prepared to take Labor initiatives a step further. He has done this on a number of occasions. But we question the delay in this matter. 
I congratulate the Minister on the selection of personnel- the 18 members- of the committee and indeed the full-time chairman. The concept of rotating membership is obviously commendable. Of course the Opposition wants to extend its best wishes to the committee for the success of its investigatory work about Aboriginal education. The facts are that this is one of the most denied and deprived areas confronting Australia at present. Wherever one goes in the pursuit of an understanding of Aboriginal affairs, the deficiencies of educational opportunities available to Aboriginal people are very apparent. For example, in Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory, one finds immediately the deficiency of technical education facilities. There is no technical college or anything of that type in Arnhem Land or anywhere in the central region of northern Australia, or in Alice Springs itself, where an Aboriginal boy can learn the trade of carpentry or how to become a motor mechanic. Aboriginal girls cannot learn shorthand and typing. The same applies to the Cape York area where there are considerable numbers of Aboriginal people. If we go to the islands to the north of AustraliaMelville Island, Bathurst Island, Elcho Island and Goulburn Island- again we find this generation of Aboriginal people who are virtually destined to a life as second-grade citizens because up to this point of time Australia has not taken proper initiatives in regard to Aboriginal education. 
It is very interesting to refer to the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty where considerable space has been devoted to this problem of Aboriginal education. In that report some mention is made of the historical events associated with Aboriginal education or the inadequacy of Aboriginal education. It mentions, for example, that as far back as 1 800 attempts were made to set up a school at Parramatta. But this was not conducive to progress in the sense that it was unacceptable and the Aboriginal people fled from the school. There are many examples of how such attempts have ended in disastrous consequences. In 1912 in Western Australia there was an influx of Aboriginal children into white schools. There was such an uproar from the whites that the blacks were excluded. That set Aboriginal education back many years. We have moved on to the various shifts in emphasis in policy. We have gone from the assimilation policy in 195 1 to the integration policy in 1965 and to the self-determination policy in 1973. 
The net effect of this effort- so much of it unproductive- is revealed by some startling figures which are contained in the report to which I have referred, namely, the Fifth Main Report, December 1976, entitled  Poverty and Education in Australia.  I mention a couple of figures in this regard. A table showing the percentage of 10 to 19-year-olds enrolled in secondary education for the period 1966-1973 shows that in 1966, 15.1 per cent of Aboriginal young people of eligible school age were so enrolled. By 1973 that figure had increased to 28.5 per cent. Many eligible Aboriginal children are still not enrolled in secondary education. Another table in this report refers to the school retention rate. It shows that in 1971 the percentage of white students who went beyond third form was 22.6. The percentage of black students who went beyond third form was 2.1. So we have this powerless minority whose condition obviously has been contributed to by the inadequacy of education. There are many tables of great interest in this report and I commend the study of it to honourable members. We can probably all hang our heads in shame when we look at the table relating to tertiary education and see the product of our total endeavour in terms of tertiary education. The number of Aboriginal people enrolled in tertiary education in 1973 was fiftyseven; the next year that number had dropped by one- the enrolment was fifty-six. 
In respect of the history of this matter, the Aboriginal Consultative Group to the Schools Commission first met in December 1974. It continued to function throughout 1975. It declared that it was anxious to see established a permanent educational body of Aboriginal people. Under arrangements agreed on and approved by the then Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and me as the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in October 1975 this particular objective started to get off the ground. It was endorsed as a program by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the objective was that the Department of Education assume executive responsibility at the Australian Government level for the development of programs in Aboriginal education. It was intended that as soon as practicable the funding responsibility for Aboriginal education programs funded at the time by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs be transferred to the Department of Education. I presume it is still the objective. It is certainly a very important consideration. In the report for the triennium 1976-78, the Schools Commission wrote: 
Over the last 2 years Australians have become more aware through the bitter comments of Aborigines in the media that a new government cannot overnight solve problems which have been festering for more than a century. It is still possible for the National Population Inquiry Report to note in 1975 that 'in every conceivable comparison, the Aborigines and Islanders . . . stand in stark contrast to the general Australian society, and also to other 'ethnic' groups, whether defined on the basis of race, nationality, birth place, language or religion. They probably have the highest growth rate, the highest death rate, the worst health and housing, and legal status of any identifiable section of the Australian population '. They also have the least schooling. 
We now have the objective of this new committee. That has been spelt out in terms of philosophical goals which probably are a little too lengthy for me to enunciate at the present time, but which certainly involve the concept that education should be seen as a major instrument of social change directed towards the quality improvement of Aboriginal education. 
I refer further to the report on Poverty and Education in Australia in which the question of Aboriginal education was under consideration. Under the heading 'Community control' the report stated: 
As we have previously pointed out, Aboriginal education requires special consideration because: 
Aboriginals are the poorest, worst housed, least educated section of the community, with the highest morbidity and mortality rates. 
It is certain that the Aboriginal population of school age will increase by at least a half by the end of the century and it may well double. It is now freely acknowledged that many different groups in the community who do not conform to the general educational pattern, predicated as it is on the needs of white, middle class Australia, require specialised provision. Though some of the recommendations we make may temporarily require increased expenditure, the end result will be to bring a return in increased independence of Aboriginal communities and individuals within a comparatively short period. 
From those remarks, especially the comments made in this very authoritative report, it is clear that the initiative announced today by the Minister is necessary, outstanding and overdue. We warmly support the fact that the Minister, unlike some of his colleagues, has not thrown out the baby with the bath water. Too many Ministers are involved in this process of devolution. If the Labor Party started it they will not have anything to do with it. I congratulate the Minister for taking hold of this matter with firmness and for launching this committee which I believe will contribute very significantly in the years to come to the prospects of Aboriginal people being able to involve themselves in a self-management way in the pursuit of education. In turn this will flow through to a better way of life for the Aboriginal people. 
I certainly would not seek to claim expertise in this area. I simply rise to speak quite briefly this afternoon to say that I am appalled at the demeanour of the speakers from the Government side of the House who, in their embarrassment, have sought to turn this debate into a political stunt. If I represented the apple and pear industry- and I certainly do not- I think I would be able to see through the honourable members opposite in their desperate attempt to cover up the disunity which is apparent among them. This matter has commanded a great deal of attention in the Party meetings as late as yesterday. It absorbed, I suppose, half an hour of the Opposition's Caucus meeting when the Opposition expert on agricultural affairs briefed the Caucus members about the state of this industry. Statistical information was made available which indicates a deteriorating trend in this industry. The information was of such a nature that the decision to advocate positive support for this industry was taken unanimously in the Labor Caucus. 
I understand that while that was taking place in the Labor Caucus, there was a great donnybrook occurring at the Caucus meeting of the Liberal Party, if not at the National Country Party meeting. I am informed by reliable sources that for some one and a half hours 17 speakers fought amongst themselves in a most disgraceful state of disunity and disarray. The fact is that honourable members on the Government side from the State of Tasmania put up a case to support the industry and, as oncers, as many of them are and as many of them would confess to be, they were naturally gravely concerned at the irate feelings that abound throughout Tasmania in respect of the Government's niggardly attitude to this industry. But, of course, they were unsuccessful in their attempts to gain from the Government greater support for the apple and pear industry. In other words, the Tasmanians have been denied. The fact of the matter is that an amendment has come before the Parliament today moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on behalf of the Opposition. It is in the most positive, specific ana unambiguous terms. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has spoken a great number of words in this debate but he is fast approaching the testing time. Where does he stand in regard to the Opposition's proposal and in regard to the Opposition's commitment to provide greater support for this industry? Those people who are listening to this debate today will be able to decide for themselves who is  bona fide  and who is fair dinkum in this matter because- one can probably observe the blood drain from the face of the honourable member for Denison and other honourable members when I say this- the Opposition intends to force this matter to a division so that it will be able to sort out the sheep from the goats. Those people who want to support the industry will be able to move to the other side of the chamber and vote with the ayes. I predict that those who have been the most precocious about this matter- those who have been talking longest, the Tasmanian members- will be found wanting in respect of this matter. As I acknowledge, I am not an expert but I only have to pick up some figures released by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics showing trends in Australian agricultural commodities to see, under a number of headings, the declining state of this industry which is crying out for consideration from the Government of the day. They do not want words back on the farms in Tasmania. They want positive action of the type that is proposed by the Labor Opposition. 
After looking at the figures I am quite frankly startled to see that the value of exports of agricultural origin, as they apply, for example, to apples, will drop from $20. lm for the period 1973-74 to $llm for the year 1976-77. That is the projection from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. They are not my figures, plucked out of the air; they are authentic figures. There are similar figures in regard to the pear industry. Fresh pears are also affected in a similar way. Turning to the volume of exports for fresh apples, the figures show that for the year 1973-74 the amount was 109 000 tonnes and that for the year 1976-77 the volume of exports of fresh apples will drop to 6 1 000 tonnes. The figure for pears is virtually at a par situation. There is certainly no improvement. Having regard to the inflationary situation one can see that there is a parlous time ahead for these people in respect of income. I remind honourable members opposite who will soon be facing their testing time of the issue which is at stake in the vote that will be taking place in the near future. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland on behalf of the Opposition is to the effect that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted so that the Government can bring forward another Bill. The Opposition has spelt out in its amendment the proposal that there should be an increase in the rate of stabilisation payments to $3 per box of apples and $ 1.20 per box of pears. Then, of course, the honourable member for Blaxland and the Opposition advocate that the new Bill should provide supplementary assistance to facilitate adjustments to the fruit growing industry and to provide assistance directly to individual growers. 
Last year the Labor Government supported the stabilisation scheme but at the same time Labor supporters urged the Government to accept an adjustment scheme. The Government refused to do so at that time. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  indicated that the Government had no intention of accepting such a scheme in the future. In other words, the Government is offering growers the same scheme that it offered last year, with no compensation for inflation, no compensation when taking account of changes in the industry. The Labor Party has remained consistent and constant in urging an adjustment scheme which would give support to the growers who can profitably survive in the industry, and at the same time provide support and assistance to those who must move out of the industry. 
The Fraser Government, as we all know by now, has stood over the Tasmanian members of Parliament. Unless they support the amendment proposed by the Labor Parry, which would provide for some increased assistance and which would keep growers off the poverty line, the people of Tasmania will reject these political oncers and time servers, and next year I am sure that they will be looking anxiously for somewhere else to put their votes. Indeed, they will be placing their votes against the names of the Labor Party candidates who are at least concerned and who have had a consistent policy on the financial plight of the apple and pear growers in Tasmania. 
I have entered the debate today mainly to express indignation at the humbug and the hypocrisy which has come from honourable members opposite. There is only one way in which to assist this industry over and above the assistance that prevails at the moment, and that is to provide positive support. All the talk in the world is not going to help. Nobody can deny that the Labor Opposition has committed itself in specific and unambiguous terms. 
I say to those honourable gentlemen opposite who do have concern for their State and who often express concern about the difficulties that Tasmanian people encounter, that here is a chance to be fair dinkum. I do not think they will be expelled from the Liberal Party. I know that they want to support the Opposition's proposals. Why should they not do so? Are not honourable members opposite anxious to do as the amendment proposes, namely, to increase the rate of stabilisation payments to $3 per box of apples and $1.20 per box of pears? Do honourable members opposite want to see that happen? Do they really believe that the Government is incapable of providing that financial support? In deference to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I just say in passing to honourable members opposite for a solitary moment that the handouts to some rural industries have been enormous. The superphosphate bounty involves the payment of a very great sum of money. The amount for which the Labor Opposition is calling for the apple and pear industry is infinitesimal compared with the masses of money that have gone to the recipients of the superphosphate bounty. 
I have not raised this subject for the purpose of criticising the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as have some other honourable members. I venture to say that there might be apple and pear growers among honourable gentlemen opposite. I do not want to deprive them of this bounty. Generous assistance has been given to many primary industries in Australia, and honourable members opposite have a right to ask for it. Just because Tasmania is a little State, a mendicant State, there is no reason why those honourable members who represent that State should be run down in the Caucus room. There is no reason they should not do as they have done, that is, stand up for the rights of the Tasmanian apple and pear growers. I put it to them that they have the chance to do that today. I know that they have gone to water on a few other issues. 
You will remember,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Denison putting up a great fight for funeral benefit when the Government threatened to take away that benefit. We all remember that when it came to the testing time the honourable member was found wanting. He has made that mistake. He does not have to go on making such mistakes. I remember the great contention in relation to the need to support the maritime industry when that industry was seriously lagging. Again when it came to the test those Tasmanian members upon whom the people of the little State of Tasmania depend, let the State down. So here is the opportunity for those honourable members really to put their State on the map. The Opposition has facilitated that opportunity for them. 
I say to those honourable members who regard themselves as oncers that they have a right to fight for their survival. I know that governments with swollen majorities often regard some of their surplus number as being expendable. But Tasmanian members ought not to allow themselves to be treated in that way. The issue is not just about themselves; it is not just about their survival. It is about the survival of an industry which started from nowhere, an industry which is the product of the sweat of hardworking farmers who have encountered difficulties over the years but who have always been able to survive in the most difficult situation. But now they are approaching a crisis position and they are very much dependent on their Tasmanian representatives. 
I do not suggest that if those several concerned Government supporters who come from Tasmania vote with the Opposition on this matter that we will save the situation immediately, but it will be a lesson lashed through to the indifferent mind of the Prime Minister and especially of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  who endeavours outside this place to convey the impression that he is concerned about rural producers. Such a move will have a longer term effect. I say to honourable gentlemen opposite that if it was not for the fact that I am convinced that they are genuinely concerned, the Opposition would not have moved its amendment, thus giving them the chance to cross the floor of the House, probably in a few minutes from now. I know that what I have said is unanswerable. I do not expect that any other honourable members will rise in this debate. I know that there is more interest in this matter than has been demonstrated by the poor attendance in the chamber of honourable members opposite. That is understandable because the Test Match has been approaching its conclusion. 
-It has concluded. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member should know that Australia won. 
-I am very glad to know that. There is also a chance today to see that Tasmania wins. I invite honourable members from Tasmania to do what they can in that regard. 
-The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is fast getting a reputation in this place as a Jekyll and Hyde. He is very capable of talking with 2 voices on almost every matter that comes before the House. He was just talking about the Labor Government's attitude to refugees. Let me remind him and the House and the listening audience that it was his Government which contributed to the creation of the refugee problem in Vietnam. It was never the policy of the Labor Government to go into Vietnam and create the havoc, the turmoil and the slaughter that resulted in the very desperate situation that so many people find themselves in today. When it is all said and done, the attitude of successive Liberal governments over something like 30 years in respect of the whole Asian scene was: Here is a yellow horde racing down to destroy Australia. 
-This was the image projected by the Liberal-Country Party coalition over 23 years. It took the election of a Labor government to discover Asia. Only tonight some members of the Labor Party had the privilege of welcoming to this place for a social function His Excellency, the Ambassador from the People's Republic of China. If that had been advocated just 4 years ago there would have been an outcry from the other side of the House. 
Tonight we are talking on the question of immigration policies and Australia's population. This is a very serious matter to contemplate because we can now be laying a basis for immigration policy that can last Australia for the next 30 years or so. In my view the program that has evolved over the last 30 years can only be regarded as successful in that 3.3 million new settlers have come to this country. They represent half of Australia's post-war growth from 7.4 million to 13.9 million people. The Labor Party is proud of the fact that the immigration program was one of its creations. I suppose that on this occasion, as has been the case on many other occasions, a tribute can be paid to the architect of Australia's immigration program- the late Arthur Calwell. I have heard this acknowledged even by Government supporters and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is indicating that mention was made of this tonight. 
After Labor initiated this program- and a former colleague of mine, the previous member for Parkes,  Mr Leslie  Haylen went round the world in a difficult situation gathering up the ships to bring these people to Australia- we found that a unity ticket evolved on the question of immigration. The policy initiated by Labor was fairly faithfully upheld by successive governments. 
The position is that Australia's population in recent times has waned. The population rate has slowed down significantly. Births and deaths can soon be very much on a par. We are approaching zero population growth in Australia. The intake from immigration has slowed down as well. It slowed down, I acknowledge, during the period of the Labor Government's administration, as it has slowed in the period of the Liberal Government's administration since 1975. This naturally reflects the world wide inflation. It was proper that the intake from immigration should slow down in that situation. If there is a trend to unemployment that results from world wide inflation, to be dogmatic about the level of intake of migrants would represent a very absurd position. For many years we had a immigration target of one per cent of the population. This has fallen to a much lower figure in recent times. In 1975 our net loss in immigration was 8000. In 1975-76 the gain was less than 2 1 000. That represents a growth rate of only 0.15 per cent, which is significantly less than the one per cent of population target which we pursued for many years. 
We are told in the Green Paper from the Australian Population and Immigration Council that in 10 years we lost 330 000 people who took up residence overseas. There is a big difference between gross migration intake and net migration intake. Some honourable members can recall the situation in 1961, the credit squeeze situation and other periods when the cycle did its course and unemployment was the order of the day. It is apparent that there is a very real relationship between the net immigration figure and the state of buoyancy of the Australian economy, the availability of jobs, the availability of houses and the like. It is interesting to look at the immigration intake and to see from where our migrants came. 
We have had 3.3 million migrants over the years. Forty-two per cent of them came from the United Kingdom, and 58 per cent from 100 other countries including Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia, Germany and The Netherlands. I suppose that each of these ethnic groups contributed its own special quality. 
I was interested to read in the report that only 14 per cent of migrants come from Asian countries. An infinitesimal number, because the number has not been specifically mentioned, as I recall it, apparently come from Oceania. There is a good case for us to do some thinking along these lines: If we are to develop an affinity with our Asian neighbours, if we are to consolidate the fact of life that we live in this Asian and Oceanic region, we should be, in my view, looking more objectively at these areas. We should not open the gates, which is a term that has been mentioned during the years. To open the gates to one people probably would be an undesirable thing. To open the gates to one region probably would be an undesirable thing. To pursue a policy of taking people from Asia as well as from Europe and other parts of the world, depending upon their capacity to be effectively absorbed and integrated into the Australian way of life, I think would be the proper course. We have come to understand that many Asians have the capacity to come here and to bring something with them, not only in terms of material possessions but in terms of technological skills which will enable them to make a very worthwhile contribution to the Australian way of life. 
I believe that far too few Australians have very much understanding of our closest neighbour, Indonesia. I suppose the same could be said of Indonesia. There is an obvious need for us to get a more effective exchange between the 2 peoples. I venture to say that the majority of Australians would not be able to name half a dozen Indonesian towns. That augurs very badly for the future. When one lives in such a close way in any neighbourhood situation tensions often manifest themselves. I believe that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, in cooperation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  should be giving much deeper thought to the need to lift from 14 per cent the intake of Asian migrants and should have regard to the need to bring people from Oceania. 
The Green Paper which is before the Parliament and the nation at present- this is a discussion paper which is the basis upon which we hope one day to submit a White Paper to the Parliament- puts forward several options. The first option is to the effect that there could be a gross intake of 30 000 to 50 000 migrants per annum. That would virtually represent a zero migration program because that number of people depart from this country every year. I do not think anybody is advocating that at present. The second option is a gross intake of 90 000 to 120 000, which would represent a net gain of about 50 000. That is more than we have at present. I think our gross intake is about 70 000. Roughly speaking, the yardstick is that nearly half of them are lost anyway. There is close to a 50 per cent net intake. I do not think the second option is sufficient either. The third option is that there could be a gross intake of 170 000 to 200 000, providing a net gain of about 100 000. 1 would take the lower of those 2 figures if I were having a stab at the kind of immigration intake that we should have at present. 
It is pointed out that when we apply the policy or choose one of these options we must have regard, as we have done, to the family reunion requirements, to the refugee component which has been mentioned by a number of speakers, to our diversified manpower recruitment requirements, to our retraining policies and to matters of that kind. I know we have housing problems in Australia. We have under-utilised migrant hostels. From that point of view, at least there is a case to increase our migrant intake. Many other considerations are involved. I believe that the net effect of immigration would be beneficial to Australia in that it would have the capacity to increase consumer demand in Australia. Many industries talk about deficiencies in terms of economy of scale from the production point of view. They say that our market is not big enough to produce things on a competitive basis. I remember the late  Mr Justice  Dovey conducted an inquiry into these matters. There was a well substantiated contention that migrants provide a net benefit in the overall scene. I think it is one of those very difficult things about which one can come up with a finite answer. That is the kind of conviction which I have, and I have a positive inclination in this direction. 
Let me mention that the population trend in Australia is very serious in that we have had a decline from the stand point of both natural and immigration population growth. We have a population of nearly 14 million. It has doubled during the last 40 years. Our growth rate has fallen from 2 per cent in 1971 to 1.2 per cent in 1975. There was a drop in the natural increase, and the migration gain fell to an 8000 loss situation in 1975. Even the figures in respect of childbearing reveal a remarkable situation. I do not mention this in a critical vein. In 1891 childbearing was running at the rate of 6.5 per cent. In 1921 it was running at the rate of 4 per cent. In 1971 it was down to 2.7 per cent. I believe that controlled fertility is here to stay. I am not standing to advocate anything to the contrary. Our net reproduction rate- this comes under the heading, if you like, of fertility of women- in 1961 was 1.63 per cent; in 1971 it was 1.39 per cent; in 1973 1.18 per cent; and in 1974 1.12 per cent. Now we have reached a situation in which the rate is probably below the replacement level of 1 per cent. Our immigration has the effect of offsetting this declining fertility. 
There is much more to be said in this vein. I think sufficient figures are available already to indicate that if Australia is to sustain its population and if it is to provide the population expansion which is necessary from many points of view, including the point of view of defence and point of view of getting effective utilisation of our generously endowed resources, it ought to be at this stage laying the basis for an immigration program which will contribute to the well being of this nation, to the growth of our economy and to the prosperity of the Australian Community. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Neil)  adjourned. 
-Briefly I want to raise a matter which concerns the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and to some extent the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  In Wollongong there is an organisation known as the Wollongong Unemployed People's Movement. It has recently made an application to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations under the Community Youth Support Scheme. In that application some very significant facts have been revealed about the inadequacy of the Commonwealth Employment Service office in Wollongong. Wollongong has a very large population and, historically, it provides the factory fodder which keeps the profits of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and other enterprises at a high level. At present there are 5656 people in the Wollongong district unemployed. Of these 3000 are under 2 1 years of age and some 30 per cent are migrants. 
This afternoon we heard a great deal of talk about the need to provide adequate care, attention and service for migrants. We have been seeking to lay the basis, through consideration of a Green Paper, for an on-going immigration policy. But one thing that will certainly contribute to a solid foundation for any such policy is adequate care for the migrants who are already in Australia. When it is revealed that 30 per cent of the 5656 unemployed in Wollongong are migrants it will obviously give very grave cause for concern. Wollongong, being a city of steel, lacks diversification of employment. There are many people who just cannot fit into the steel industry and who lack other opportunities. That applies especially to females. The incidence of female unemployment is extremely high. The ratio of staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service office to those unemployed is one to 257, including typists and other staff not dealing directly with the unemployed. There is a staff of twentytwo in that office but very few of them are involved in counselling. In New South Wales the caseload for the Commonwealth Employment Service staff generally is one for every 177. In Victoria the caseload ratio is one for 1 17 unemployed persons. In Wollongong, as I have said, it is one for 257 unemployed persons. Yet in Wollongong not only are the ratios much higher but also the needs are arguably much more pressing because of difficulties relating to language and housing of the large migrant unemployed group. There appear to be no plans for additional aid; no plans for the introduction of a dual hand set telephone service which could have a direct connection with the telephone interpreter service. Yet, in August the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said that such a telephone service would be installed within a few weeks. If Wollongong has been ignored in the placement of these machines, it would be a continuation of this Government's lack of interest in the problems of migrants who have arrived in Australia and especially a lack of interest in the problems of migrants in Wollongong. 
This lack of interest was highlighted this afternoon when the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations announced a new service which was to be incorporated in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices. It involved providing evening services correlated with the evening shopping service. It is significant that Wollongong, a city with the most pressing need in this respect, was omitted from this new service. I appeal to the Minister to upgrade the service in Wollongong, to provide counselling services, to institute a bond system so that those people can go out and seek accommodation in other places where employment might be available outside of Wollongong. The neglect of migrants and the unemployed in the Wollongong region has gone on for far too long. I appeal to the Government tonight to have a good look at this question and to redress the neglect which has characterised the administration of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. 
-I ask the Treasurer a question. In view of his address to the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party in which he foreshadowed further reductions in expenditure on health and welfare services in this year's Budget, I ask: Will he assure the House that the Government will not restore the means test on pensions for persons over the age of 70 years or reintroduce university fees and loans in breach of the 1975 election commitments? 
-The diligence, integrity and resourcefulness of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts is, in my view, effectively exhibited by the report which is being debated by the House at present. I pay tribute to all members of the Committee who pursued in such a conscientious way this marathon event to its conclusion. It is the duty, among others, of the Public Accounts Committee to examine each statement transmitted to Parliament by the Auditor-General. In the AuditorGeneral's supplementary report for 1972-73 reference was made to 'deficiencies in the financial and administrative control over the receipts and expenditure of public moneys by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs'. On 5 March 1974 the Auditor-General's special report upon the Department was tabled in Parliament. It contained very strong criticism of the Minister and, to some degree, of the Department itself. The Ninth Committee thereupon launched its inquiry. Submissions were called. The extensive nature of the inquiry can be gauged from the very great response from witnesses. Fourteen officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs gave evidence to substantiate the view, I suppose, of that Department. The Treasury representatives were there in formal capacities. The Public Service Board had no fewer than 3 senior officers there. Such interests as Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and the Australian National University were represented. 
There were 2 days of public hearings, on 8 and 9 April 1974. That was the start of this great marathon. Then there was the double dissolution on 10 April 1974. So the thing went into limbo for a while. On 16 July 1974 the Tenth Committee was constituted and the inquiry continued. There were a further 9 days of public hearings. Then there was the double dissolution of 1 1 November 1975. On 3 and 4 March 1 976, after a considerable delay, the Eleventh Committee was constituted. On 4 December 1974, I think, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  moved into the act after so much had been said and written about him. He wrote to the  chairman  and indicated that he would like to put his point of view. He appeared before the Committee on 6 December 1974. As the  Chairman  said, he made history in doing so. Every report of the AuditorGeneral is in respect of some Minister. For the first time a ministerial head appeared before the Committee to put his own point of view, after 26 witnesses, I think, had put their points of view. 
Like the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and other honourable gentlemen, tonight I am speaking in a spirit of reconciliation because I believe that this report is about 2 men- the honourable member for Wills and  Mr Dexterwho,  by their actions over a long period, have demonstrated their sincerity about Aboriginal affairs. As the honourable member for Cook said, for the best part of 20 years I have had some associaton with Aboriginal affairs. I regard the honourable member for Wills as something like the father of Aboriginal activists in this Parliament, along with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I would not disparage him in any way in this context. In evidence to the Committee the then Permanent Head and senior officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs cast very serious aspersions on him. For the most part, as events turned out, they were without substantiation. 
In part of the evidence presented the Permanent Head stated, and was given wide Press coverage as stating, that the Minister and his staff attempted to instruct the Permanent Head and pre-empt his responsibility. He was reported as saying: 
I am not prepared to lead the Department which I do not control: therefore I stood my ground. 
This was the comment made by  Mr Dexter.  This raises the very serious matter which this Parliament should examine closely as it is a matter of great importance for the future administration of the Public Service and the role and responsibilities of Ministers. 
Just let us look at the question of the relationship between Ministers and Permanent Heads of departments because that is the essence of the whole debate. Although there is some vagueness regarding the relationship between the Minister and Permanent Head it is generally accepted that section 64 of the Constitution, under which Ministers administer departments, is subject to limitation only by the specific granting of powers under Acts of this Parliament directly to the Permanent Head or the Public Service Board and its delegates. In particular section 25 (2) of the Public Service Act must be read as subject to the Minister's responsibilities under section 64. This view was expressed in 1944 in an opinion of the then Attorney-General and former High Court Justice,  Dr Evatt,  when he stated that section 25 (2)- a section under which Permanent Heads derive their responsibilitiesmust be read subject to fundamental and overriding principles that the constitutional head of a department of the executive government of the Commonwealth is the Minister of State. This view was confirmed by the Coombs royal commission after extensive review. 
In addition,  Mr Robert  Parker, the recognised Australian expert on public administration wrote in 1960 that 'at any level the Minister has the right and in constitutional theory the duty to know of impending decisions and actions and to have the last word in determining them'. He added that 'public servants are in law mere extensions of the Minister's own personality'. I will admit that this is a mind boggling concept. It is a unique challenge to any Permanent Head because the honourable member for Wills is one of the great personalities of the Parliament. He is one of the intrepid characters in this Parliament. But that, nevertheless, is the onus and responsibility so far as Permanent Heads are concerned. 
Two other matters of grave concern relate to the role of the Auditor-General in this matter and the role and operation of the PublicAccounts Committee. First, I refer to the Auditor-General. As honourable members are aware the Auditor-General is a statutory officer whose obligation it is to report directly to the Governor-General and the Parliament on financial operations of departments of state.  His  reports and, in particular, any criticisms contained therein, are given wide Press coverage and of course, are privileged documents. However, one must cast very serious doubts on the investigative and reporting aspects of his report on the operation of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which forms the basis of this report by the Public Accounts Committee. In his report the Auditor-General, formerly an officer of the Department of the Treasury concerned with the financial oversight of the former Office of Aboriginal Affairs expenditure, reported without comment the departmental claims that the noncompliance with established financial procedures was the result of 'the Department becoming aware of ministerial decisions involving expenditure only when the accounts for the expenditure concerned were received by the Department'. 
In later evidence to the Committee, the Permanent Head of the Department retracted and apologised to the former Minister for this Department's previous comments, which the Auditor-General had accepted. However, the honourable member for Wills was not exonerated publicly by the Auditor-General nor were the retractions of the Department given his official imprimateur and the subsequent Press coverage. This should be a matter of grave concern for all honourable members as the powers of the Auditor-General, particularly those expressed in sections 13 and 42 of the Audit Act, give him almost unlimited powers to require persons and documents to be provided for his examination. 
Similarly, the operation of the Public Accounts Committee itself must be challenged. When  Mr Dexter  and other senior officers of the Department gave evidence which reflected on the former Minister and his staff, their statements received wide Press coverage, yet it was only through the former Minister's own diligence that he was afforded an opportunity to rebut the Department's evidence. Of course his rebuttal appears to have been substantially accepted. But what has happened in the meantime? May I just mention cursorily some headlines of a defamatory and damaging nature which appeared in respect of the former Minister. A headline in the  Melbourne Age  states: 'Bryant left me in mire: dept. head'. A headline in the  West-Australian  stated: 'Aboriginal Department shortcomings due to Bryant'. Another  Age  headline stated: Bryant acted illegally, PS chief says'. A further  Age  headline stated: 'Bryant in row on black cash'. That article carried the sub-heading: 'Department places blame on Minister'. Another  West-Australian  headline stated: 'Committee told of "illegal" act'. The article under the headline stated: 
. former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, had taken action that was quite illegal . . . 
The article reports that this was said by the First Assistant Secretary of the Department. Another headline which appeared in the  Australian  stated: ' "Ignored normal rule" in grants to Aboriginals'. The article under that headline stated: 
The Permanent Head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr B.  Dexter, yesterday blamed a former minister,  Mr Bryant,  for irregularities in financial administration. 
A headline in the  Canberra Times  stated: 'Departmental head accuses Minister'. Another headline was: 'Dexter in attack on Bryant'. So it goes on. Another was: 'Department "left to flounder" '. Another was: 'Aboriginal Department shortcomings due to Bryant'. Yet another was: 'Bryant acted illegally PS chief says'. There are pages and pages of such headlines. 
We all know what the essence of the case is as put by the  chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee.  Mr Bryant  now stands as being indicted, as with  Mr Dexter,  as I think lacking some liaison capacity, with not exercising sufficient contact, one with the other. There is some mutuality in the charges here. I suppose that  Mr Bryant's  style of administration is another reference which is made in an indictable way. 
In the minute or two left to me I want to say thank heavens there was such a style of administration that represented intrepidness, initiative and enterprise in the great desire to get something done in the area of Aboriginal affairs after 23 years of neglect and indifference. When I look at the period that the honourable member for Wills was the Minister-from 19 December 1972 until 9 October 1973-1 see that he was confronted with an enormous job. He had 975 officers. This was a lot of people. Clerks were transferred en masse from the Department of the Northern Territory and other departments. There were people from the Canberra bureaucracy. One would not have to be an expert to recognise easily that they were people who in many respects lacked the balanced team characteristic that was needed to get out in the field and tackle this job. 
Just let me mention some of the things that happened in that short period in which the honourable member for Wills was in office. The Aboriginal Land Rights Commission was established.  Mr Justice  Woodward was appointed. The National Aboriginal Consultative Council was established. Then, of course, Aboriginal Hostels Limited was formed and 10 hostels were purchased and five were leased. There were initiatives in Aboriginal housing. Large amounts of money were allocated to the States and housing associations were formed. Aboriginal medical services were established in many parts of Australia as were Aboriginal legal services. There were great initiatives in education. So I think we can say thank heavens for the unusual style of administration of a former minister who has been much maligned but who in fact has contributed more to the wellbeing of the Aboriginal people than probably anybody else in the history of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Today in this Parliament a spirit of mutuality has been abroad on the question of overseas aid. I think all honourable members would concede that there has been a great deal of agreement and common accord on this general question of providing assistance to underprivileged people around the world. I want to put into today's  Hansard  an account of a contrasting point of view- the voice of dissent on this subject; the voice of one prominent Australian who appears to disagree with all the honourable members who have spoken in this Parliament today. On 1 October on the  AM  program Hamish Robertson dealt with the subject of overseas aid. He commenced by saying: 
The Queensland Premier has launched another savage attack on the Federal Government, this time because of their foreign aid.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has sent a stinging letter to the Prime Minister complaining that aid money is being spent overseas while there are poverty-stricken Australians. 
So, the interview went on; I certainly will not have time to quote everything that was said. But here is a comment from  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  on this matter. He said:  . . when I read what  Mr Peacock  said in the United Nations yesterday that we are going to help to build in a practical way a brave, bright, new world, that's all very well, it's big thinking but charity begins at home and we mustn't run away from our own problems, and we have got very real problems here and we can't get a cent for many of these things because they say they can 't pay for them, they haven 't the money- next year probably- and then you read and you see in the Federal Treasurer's Budget they are going to spend $S31m on foreign aid and Foreign Affairs Department around the world in helping other people but what about helping our own people. 
-The Executive Director of the Australian Council of Overseas Aid had something to say about  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's statement. He said: 
I think that  Mr Petersen  is probably trying to get another couple of million dollars from the Federal Government and he is really taking it from the mouths of starving women and children. He quotes a figure of $531 m as though that's the amount given in overseas aid. It's not. That figure includes the whole cost of running the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
He went on: 
I don't see how a Christian country can do anything else but increase the amount of aid it is giving to developing countries. 
So here is one voice, the voice of the Premier of Queensland, that is out of tune with this Parliament. It is out of tune with the Queensland coalition parties and it is out of tune with all those people in Australia who seek to alleviate the plight of suffering humanity in our region. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 9 March, 1977. 
What percentage of the CSIRO 's budget is allocated for research into 
effects of waste products of nuclear reactors on organic matter and 
new or improved disposal methods of nuclear waste products. 
-I ask the Deputy Prime 
Minister: What is the rationale behind his claim yesterday that inflation fell by 6 per cent last year; or has the Government ceased to pretend that its claims concerning economic performance - 
-I also support, as does the Opposition, the Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill. The debate has been of a non-partisan nature since it is evident that there is a very strong inclination to have regard to the need for Australia to make a contribution to the developing countries in our region particularly, but in other parts of the world as well. The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to make an additional share capital subscription, on behalf of Australia, to the Asian Development Bank of $US346.1m, of which 10 per cent will be paid over a period of 4 years commencing in 1977-78 with the balance remaining on call. This represents Australia's full entitlement in the general increase of $US5,004m or 135 per cent being made to the authorised capital of the Bank. As the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  said, Australia is a good performer in this field. From what I can see we are exceeded in our contributions only by Japan, the United States and India. Mention of India as a contributor to the Bank is an indicator that the people who benefit are also involved from a dual point of view as recipients and as contributors. This of course evokes a very great sense of responsibility on the part of all the participants. 
It is interesting to note in the Asian Development Bank's quarterly review of OctoberNovember 1976 that the Bank's total lending passed the $3 billion mark on 23 September last year when its Board approved a $32m loan for a development project in the Republic of Korea. By the end of the year's third quarter the Bank had approved, in all, 270 loans totalling $3,009. 10m for 247 projects in 21 countries. As one goes through that very interesting quarterly review, it is interesting to note the nature of the disbursement of funds. There is a very high emphasis on financing public utilities. Some 35 per cent of the funds went in that direction. Agriculture attracted some 22.7 per cent of the funds; industry, 21.9 per cent and transport and communications, 19 per cent. I see that education attracted only a very small, if not infinitesimal, part of the funds- 1.07 per cent. One wonders whether it might not be advantageous in the medium and longer term to expand the allocation under that heading. 
A great deal of philosophical conjecture can be brought to bear on this matter. We all recall that for many years aid was used as a weapon of the cold war. Countries gave assistance for the purpose of deriving direct regional advantage, sometimes in consideration of defence requirements and matters of that kind. I do not think that Australia has pursued its aid policy along those lines. I certainly do not advocate that it should do so. There has also been some philosophical conjecture to the effect that Australia and other countries should have the right to tie their aid to the potential repurchasing that could take place in Australia or in other donor or contributing countries. I do not disparage that suggestion altogether. I think that it is a fair sequel to aid and one to which we could turn a very factual eye in the future. There is no question that when a country like Australia contributes to another country's development in the Asian region, benefits are likely to accrue. When we develop a purchasing capacity, a consumer demand capacity, it follows that Australia would be among the countries which could derive benefit. 
One could talk about many matters on this Bill. As former Minister for Housing and Construction, I had the good fortune to be very deeply involved with the work of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which, as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  has a very direct association with our aid program in that it has been associated with about 22 countries around the world. I believe that although SMEC, as this organisation is called, is in a very competitive situation, the Government should not let up in any way in the endeavour to keep SMEC in the vanguard of this functionary aid program. Our technicians go into the consultative field, exposing to these developing countries the way in which their own resources can be developed. I have noticed from studying the Bank's annual report- I commend the study of that report to honourable members to see the work done- the wide range of countries that have been the subject of investigatory programs. For example, the report refers to the work done in the hydrological area in the upper Nile basin, the feasibility study of the power station in Ghana and the great projects in Indonesia which I have had the privilege of visiting- water studies and road projects, some of which we have directed in a very effective way. Our aid has gone to the Philippines, 
Malaysia and Thailand the into the Pacific area as well. I believe that this is a very valuable part of our aid program. 
Another matter which deserves some mention at present is the Common Fund which is currently the subject of some controversy in the United Nations. The aim of this Common Fund is to protect developing countries from fluctuations in export earnings. The aim is also said to be to improve market access and reliability of supply for primary products, to diversify production in developing countries, and to improve market structures, distribution and transport systems for commodity exports of developing countries. What is Australia's position in regard to the Common Fund? I am told, following some research in the Parliamentary Library and through other processes, that in Nairobi in 1976, Australia did not oppose the adoption of the resolution of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on the establishment of the Common Fund. But at the conference being conducted at present in Geneva, Australia has refused to state its position. The delegation to the Geneva talks is from the Department of Overseas Trade. Its attitude, reflecting the attitude of this Government, has alienated already most of our Asian neighbours. A report from the conference quotes a senior Asian diplomat as saying: 
I can't understand that on a question so vital to all ASEAN Countries Australia can be so indifferent to it. 
I draw attention to this matter which I think is very relevant to the question that is before the House at present. In essence, the Common Fund is involved with the 10 predominant basic export products in the developing countries. The commodities in the integrated program, these 10 core commodities, include coffee, cocoa, copper, cotton, tea, tin, rubber, jute, fibres and sugar. There are 8 other commodities in a subsidiary group which includes meat, bananas, bauxite, iron ore, manganese, phosphates, tropical timbers, oil and oil seeds. It would be apparent to all honourable members that the stabilising of these industries and agricultural pursuits would contribute very significantly to the well-being of the people in the producing areas. In addition, it would advantage people in the importing areas. Australia is affected in regard to several of the commodities mentioned. There is no doubt that in the Mount Lyell situation we would have been very greatly advantaged if the Common Fund had been in operation. 
I am told that an independent observer attending the Common Fund Negotiating Conference in Geneva,  Mr Rollason,  has some very pointed and critical comments to make about this matter. He said: 
The Developing Countries known as the Group of 77 are dissatisfied with the lack of progress, and their impatience with the Western industrialised countries known as Group B has reached frustration level. 
According to  Mr Rollason,  apparently there is now talk of a walk out, and the objective of establishing a Common Fund could be in jeopardy. Australia, as a major commodity producer and a member of Group B, could have led the way into real negotiations. For reasons best known to the Government, apparently it has steadfastly refused. The trade official who is leading the Australian delegation,  Mr Colin  Teese, is said to have admitted that 'we have not taken a decision as to whether we will support a Common Fund'. He does not understand what is meant by a Common Fund. That seems to be used as a standing or holding position in the negotiations taking place in the United Nations at the present time.  Mr Teese  is said to have summed up the Australian position by saying: 
We will reserve till the end the right to decide whether we accept or reject the Common Fund. 
The reaction to this, according to  Mr Rollason,  is very adverse. He said: 
Australia's non-position is not winning us any friends amongst our regional neighbours either. The substantial efforts to improve relations with ASEAN Countries by Foreign Minister Peacock is rapidly being undermined by the Trade Department delegation present at this Conference. 
This is a communique dated 24 March. I believe it is of such urgency that it ought to command the immediate attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs because the reactions attributed to some of the spokesmen from neighbouring countries are very alarming indeed. The Conference Ambassador of Indonesia, who is a spokesman for the Group of 77, is said to have named Australia as one of the countries with whose position he was very disappointed. The Malaysian representative had something similar to say, as did the representative from Papua New Guinea. The Conference Ambassador of the Philippines- I am just skimming through this communiquestressed the importance of 'developing relations between neighbours in our South East Asian Region' and commented that there should be maximum effort to see each other's viewpoints. The Malaysian representative commented that he had expected Australia to take a more understanding attitude of 'our aspirations' not only because of 'our close relations' but also because Australia is a major producer of commodities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
Has the Government, in conjunction with the New South Wales Government, undertaken a study to determine a strategy to accommodate future air transport needs of Sydney. 
If so, what form is the study to take. 
Have consultants been engaged to assist with the study. 
If so, what are the stated purposes of the consultancy and the costs associated with it. 
When is it expected the studies will be completed. 
-This is a very important referral. I am sure it is going to mean a great deal to the people of Tasmania and will serve to put into sharp focus the importance of the work of the Antarctic Division. I just ask the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay):  What is the reason for delaying this referral for so long? He might recall that this site was proposed by the previous Labor Government and, if my memory serves me correctly, some 1 8 months would have gone by without anything significant occurring. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) What was the cost of the VIP flight undertaken by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on Sunday, 13 February 1977. 
What were the reasons given for the use of the VIP flight. 
Where was the VIP aircraft based prior to being called to Launceston by  Mr Newman. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What equipment is available at Sydney's 3 major hospitals, Sutherland District Hospital and Wollongong Hospital for the diagnosis and treatment of disease or incapacity which may be caused by radioactive emissions. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
1 ) Has a group of Australians led by  Mr Ted  Wixted, of Queensland, made application to the Government of Burma for approval to take an expedition to the sea between Aye Island and the mainland town of Ye in the Gulf of Martaban to search for Kingsford-Smith 's aircraft, the  Lady Southern Cross,  lost on 8 November 1935? 
If so, what has been the response of the Burmese Government to this request? 
What assistance will the Australian Government provide in respect of the expedition 's objectives? 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the imposition of Public Service staff ceilings been used to run down the Design and Development Section of his Department. 
If so, has the result been an increase in the use of outside consultants to perform design and development work, and a subsequent increase in cost. 
Was this decision made on the grounds of efficiency and cost savings. If so, why has the resultant contracting increasingly been allocated by selective tendering. 
How can these actions be reconciled with his Government's stated commitment to lowering costs. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1 977: 
1 ) Has consideration been given to establishing a Natural Disasters Insurance Scheme to cover such natural disasters as floods and cyclones; if so, by what process has the proposal been considered, and what results have accrued. 
) Has attention been given to the considerable incidence of disaster caused by 'landslip' in respect of which many people have suffered serious financial loss because of uninsurable eventualities; if so, is it intended to facilitate protection of property owners against 'landslip' by (a) instituting a public insurance scheme, (b) instituting a private insurance scheme or (c) extending natural disaster assistance to such cases. 
Can he say what are the recorded property losses from landslip' in the following areas: (a) Illawarra (WollongongStanwell Park to Gerringong), New South Wales, (b) Picton, Camden and Moss Vale areas behind the Illawarra Escarpment, New South Wales, (c) Warringah Shire area (Northern Beaches), New South Wales, (d) Gosford and Wyong Shires, New South Wales, (e) Oxley and Brisbane, Queensland, (f) Tambourine Mountain and adjacent slopes, Queensland and (g) Buderim and Mooloolaba areas, Queensland. 
Can he also say what assistance has been given to people suffering financial loss by 'landslip' by (a) local governments, (b) State Governments and (c) the Commonwealth Government. 
-The Opposition supports the proposal before the House, and I believe that the Public Works Committee is to be congratulated upon the very thorough investigation and inquiry it has undertaken. I have just taken an opportunity to go through the transcript of evidence and to see the plans of the proposal, as I had a very early interest in this matter. The project is part of an overall Commonwealth centre objective which was contrived by the Labor Government and put under study in 1972, and naturally the Opposition is delighted to see segments of that project coming to fruition. I was very interested to note that the new law courts building- there is a tendency to refer to this as a Supreme Court; I hope that does not mean that the Supreme Court will move in and leave inadequate space for other courts- is going to replace a building which was constructed in 1928 as a residence, that demonstrating its inadequacy, and which went into operation for legal purposes in 1934. The Committee has provided very substantial evidence of the need for this facility. The population of Alice Springs is already over 14 000 and is expected to rise to 34 000 by 1990. The Committee mentions that tourist numbers stand at 75 000 and are increasing at a rapid rate. 
I have a special interest in the Committee's commendable recommendation, in my view, regarding the preservation of the old cell block. This matter came to my attention when I was the Minister and it seemed that the old cell block could easily have gone under the demolisher's hammer. Fortunately we have been able to prevent that occurring and there is now a proposal that the old cell block, which is one of the few historical features remaining in the Territory, is to be preserved in a courtyard setting and possibly used as an historical museum, no doubt associated with the work of the police and perhaps with the progress of justice in the Northern Territory. All that has been made possible by another Labor Government contrivance, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. Without that Act, which was utilised to preserve this historic relic, a different result would have ensued. I notice that $100,000 is referred to in relation to the preservation and restoration of the old cell block, but that seems to be a small price to pay in a $3.1 m project if we are to have regard for our heritage. At one time, I think in 1 974, the old cell block was just about on the skids, and the matter was brought to my attention by the National Trust people. I think I was able to ensure that at least while the Labor Government was in office there would be strong ministerial directions to one of the departments involved, the Department of Housing and Construction, that every possible effort should be made to preserve the old cell block. 
The Committee has mentioned one dilemma to which the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  or perhaps another Minister could refer at a subsequent stage. No provision has been made for the administration of the cell block. Paragraph 63 of the Committee's report states: 
The Committee is disturbed that responsibility for the control and maintenance of the old cell block after its restoration has yet to be determined. 
The Northern Territory Reserves Board looks after the old telegraph station out of Alice Springs and the old police station at The Gap is also under the jurisdiction of that Board. I understand that new arrangements are being made for the administration of things of historical importance in the Territory. I hope that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  who is taking an intelligent interest in the proceedings at the present time, will be able to note the importance which some members attach to this matter and advise the House, or the public at large, by way of a Press release, that the problem raised by the Committee will be taken care of effectively. 
I conclude by saying that all those members of the former Labor Cabinet who thrashed out this matter on several occasions between 1972 and 1975 and who indicated their preparedness on several occasions to allocate considerable resources to this Commonwealth complex in Alice Springs are delighted to see that $3.1m is being allocated for the advancement of the wellbeing of the people in the Northern Territory. 
I do not have a great deal of time in which to speak in this debate. I just want to summarise the attitudes of the organisations involved in transport around Australia which take a view opposite to that held by honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who preceded me in this debate. During the course of the debate the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was described by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honorable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  as an arrogant man. Somebody else said that the Minister was long on rhetoric and short on logic. There is one thing that is without doubt, even if those 2 contentions have some doubt about them, and that is that the Minister for Transport is an expert on devolution. Here is the man who has jettisoned not only Labor reforms in transport but also the long standing provisions innovated by his own Party, which have stood the test of time. We are now talking about an instrumentality which was established back in 1 964. 
-This is the man who has destroyed the shipbuilding industry. This is the man who is flying in the face of advice from all the organisations with which honourable members opposite claim to have a close association and a real affinity. I look, for example, at the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who is responding intelligently. I need that kind of look from the other side of the House at the moment because intelligence is a rare quality. I know that the honourable member for Maranoa claims to have some concern about and association with the local government authorities of his State and of Australia. The honourable member, having some understanding of the facts of the situation, would be the first to acknowledge that every local government authority which has had a point of view on this matter is averse to the thinking of the Minister and to the spirit of this legislation. 
We are discussing the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill. To summarise the first couple of lines of what the Minister said, the purpose of this Bill is not really to create something but to repeal legislation enacted in 1 964 to create the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. When I made reference to this a while ago somebody interjected and asked who created the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. If he does not know I will tell him who created it. It was the Menzies Government. So this is what this repudiation is about. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What organisations have received Commonwealth Youth Support Scheme grants to date. 
What was the purpose of each grant. 
What was the (a) amount and (b) duration of each grant. 
In which Federal electoral divisions have grants been made. 
How many applications for grants are outstanding at present. 
How many grants have been rejected. 
What was the (a) amount requested (b) organisation and.(c) purpose of each application rejected. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. In the interests of proper national debate will the Treasurer table the advisings that he received from his Department in respect of the proposed wage-price freeze? 
-In regard to the proposed reference to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, I ask the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  to say, if he can, whether such proposals have been prepared by departmental experts or whether, having regard to the fact that there has been considerable utilisation of private consultants, such proposals have been prepared by outside consultants. The Minister will know that there is a great deal of concern among employees in his Department that such work is being done outside the Department and that the number of employees in the Department is being reduced. Can he indicate whether the preparation work has been done by his Department and the extent to which it is being supplemented by other sources? 
-The House has before it something like a smorgasbord of very tantalising and fascinating issues. We are debating at the moment the Automatic Data Processing Equipment Bounty Bill, the Bed Sheeting Bounty Bill and the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill. I must confess that I had a childhood interest in tractors and a more enduring interest in bed sheets, but I have never spoken on the question of automatic data processing in the Parliament before. I congratulate the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who gave such an extensive and effective exposition of these 3 areas. It is incredible that anybody can master such complicated issues with such great capacity and quality. 
The question of automatic data processing obviously fascinates the whole world. We live in a computerised era. It does not matter to whom one talks or whom one meets, that person has some association with the computer industry in 1977. Even the school boys and the school girls have some type of computerised apparatus with which they undertake their mathematical calculations and the like. Indeed, it goes well past that into the control of manufacturing processes and into the area of aeronautical operations. All of those people who are employed by a substantial employer, be it government or private, are probably receiving a computerised pay slip. So it goes on. Is it any wonder then that the governments of the world are giving very great consideration to the history of this industry and to the extent of the potential that they see in it? They are concerned with the type of support which it needs. Most people, of course, like to be self sufficient to the extent that they are able. It is foolhardy for us to take the view that we can be self sufficient in everything. The world would be unable to operate in that way. So, we have to be discerning in respect of those things that we can do well as against the things that we can accomplish in only a mediocre fashion. 
The purpose of the Automatic Data Processing Equipment Bounty Bill 1 977 is to increase the assistance afforded certain sections of the automatic data processing equipment industry in Australia by means of a bounty. It is important to note that this industry has grown considerably. It is not one of our major industries by any means, but it is taking on encouraging characteristics. It is feeling its oats, as it were. It is certainly entitled to a great deal of consideration. 
Let me say, first of all, that I am impressed with the quality of the report presented by the Industries Assistance Commission. Indeed, I am impressed with the concept of the Industries Assistance Commission. I suppose all honourable members can cast their minds back to the period preceding the term of the Labor Government and the innovation of the Industries Assistance Commission when the old cumbersome Tariff Board was operating. At that time there was no regularity or the same involvement and the expertise that we have today probing deeply into the problems of industry. At this time I am very pleased to note that the automatic data processing industry has the benefit of backing and advice and the inquisition or interrogative processes, if you like, provided by these very competent commissioners. This is no time to play around recklessly with any Australian industry. When it is all said and done, we have in Australia at the present time the highest rate of unemployment for some 40 years. Unemployment stands at well in excess of 300 000 people unemployed. So, we do not want to be gallivanting down the political garden path, flirting with some dubious philosophy that could well aggravate this most serious employment situation. 
As I have mentioned, this industry is not one of the greatest by any means, but it is still worthy of consideration. I am glad to note that it is receiving in my view, sensible consideration. In 1975, the industry employed some 400 persons, of which 40 per cent were engaged in the production of cathode ray display terminals. We are told that in 1974-75 sales were approximately $10m compared with imports of $153m. So it is apparent that Australia is not a predominant industry in this field but that we have a great dependency on other parts of the world. But it is possible, with sensitive and sensible handling, that that proportion of Australia's participation in this futuristic industry can steadfastly expand. Prior to November 1976 the industry received limited tariff protection. Cathode ray display terminals received 24 per cent, disc packs and disc cartridges received 35 per cent, and most other automatic data processing equipment received 6 per cent to 7 per cent. I summarise the situation by saying that the legislation implements the bulk of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission, the main exception being in relation to the cathode ray display terminals. The existing level and method of assistance is left unchanged in relation to those items. 
Let me look just for a moment at the type of assistance which is being given overseas. On page 6 of its report the Industries Assistance Commission states: 
Support measures offered by various overseas governments to their indigenous computer manufacturing industries range from grants to complex promotion programs. Some of the measures provided have included: direct subsidies government purchasing policies research and development grants government development contracts tariffs and other restrictions on imports fostering of mergers of local ADP manufacturers enforcement of industry standards grants to computer education finance for rental schemes and capital investments at subsidised interest rates. 
So, it is obvious that a range of options is open to the Industries Assistance Commission and to governments. Some of those options, of course, have been identified in the legislation which is before us at the present time. The industry in Australia is made up of about 6 small hardware manufacturers producing these cathode ray tube display terminals, all but one of which we are told are locally owned. I am not sure that that is the fact of the situation. I shall look at some figures in just a moment which may well throw some light on that aspect. We are also told that in the world environment the industry is dominated by a small number of United States firms. Several major world suppliers have established subsidiary companies in Australia which are primarily concerned with marketing and with software. In that regard I turn to the  Directory of 

 Overseas Investment in Australian Manufacturing Industry 1976. The production of that Directory was another initiative of the Labor Government and it is rendering great service to industries and governments alike at the present time. It is just magnificent to observe the great amount of information which is now available to permit us to be more discerning about these things. 
In that  Directory  there appears a summary of the overseas companies involved in this industry in Australia. I note, for example, that Control Data Australia Pty Ltd is one of the well capitalised companies. That company is involved with electronic computing equipment terminals, and this Australian subsidiary of the parent company has total assets worth $ 19.4m. How much of that is owned by Australians? Regrettably it seems not one solitary cent, since the overseas equity is 100 per cent. Let us then look at another major company, Honeywell Pty Ltd which has its headquarters in Sydney. That company is capitalised to the extent of $29.1m as at December 1974. That is the latest figure available. The figure is probably much more than that at the present time. As at December 1974, the Australian citizen did not have one solitary cent invested in this dominating industry which is involved with such important matters affecting the lives of all Australians. 
I go on to note the points made by the Industries Assistance Commission. I see, for example, that funds employed in the hardware sector of this industry in 1974-75 totalled only about $5m. I have mentioned that sales amounted to approximately $10m and that imports were valued at $153m for the year 1974-75. It is notable that some of the local hardware manufacturers recorded losses since their establishment. When profits were made, they were mostly small and irregular. Clearly the electronics industry needs orchestration by the Government- not a stand-off or a  status quo  attitude which is the tendency of this Government. Real intervention is necessary. 
I might just mention the kind of intervention which in my view is necessary to get this industry off the ground. We are told that there are limited prospects of manufacturing large scale computer systems in Australia. The Commission considered that the market for these units would continue to be dominated by overseas suppliers. Hopefully we will get some measure of expansion. There are many interesting comments in the report to which one could refer. But let me say now, lest I forget, that the Commission has recommended that the goods under reference be made dutiable at 6 per cent and that for a period of 7 years the tariff on most goods be supplemented by a bounty which would phase out over 7 years. The estimated cost of the bounty is $1.2m. A tariff would replace the current rate of 24 per cent for cathode ray display terminals and 35 per cent for disc packs and disc cartridges. What has happened in this case- this is a matter to which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has referred- is that there has been a sensible marrying of 2 processes, the tariff process and the bounty process. I commend the honourable member for his enduring interest in this matter. 
It seems to me that if we are to build great tariff barriers in respect of an industry of such enormous proportions and utilisation we will naturally have the inevitable sequel of prices being pushed up to a level where they will be deleterious to the wellbeing of Australian consumers. I have already indicated the broad application of the integrative nature of the electronics industry which seems to be associated with almost every aspect of the lives of Australians and whose components are used by almost every Australian. So it is important not just to rely on the old tariff technique of building bigger barriers which force up the price of commodities for the Australian consumer. It seems to me to be essential that we allow some influence from overseas production techniques to benefit the Australian utiliser and ultimately, through the chain, the Australian consumer. 
Many overseas countries, particularly the United States of America and West Germany and, of course, some of the Asian countries, have the benefit of the economy of scale principle. Australia would be extremely disadvantaged if it sought to be self-sustaining because it lacks that quality- the economy of scale factor or characteristic. I suppose that Australia also would have great difficulty in moving in any rapid way into the export area in close proximity to our own country. In any event the market prices would be phenomenal if we did not take some benefit from overseas economy of scale factors. I do not doubt that if we sought to expand too rapidly the full weight of international companies, particularly multinational companies, would come crashing down upon us. 
What is the position of the automatic data processing equipment industry? I note that mention is made in the summary of the IAC report of the fact that the Government is the predominant user of our production capacity in Australia. The Commission states in summary form, and probably in other forms as well: 
Government purchases represented a substantial pan of the market for CRTs and data entry equipment and are likely to remain important. 
I put it to the House that we should be seeking to expand this industry. There will probably be very great benefit to the nation if we looked at some important objectives involved. Our primary objective seems to be the need to sustain the industry. Our second objective must be to prevent any deterioration in the employment situation in Australia. 
-Yes, to train more people to work in the industry. In any event we need to make certain that nobody is put out of the factory gate. That should be our first priority in 1 977 and 1 978. Then it is necessary in my view to gain for Australians an increasing say in the operation of these industries. We need to throw off, at least to some degree, the element of overseas domination that prevails through the multinational factor. It seems to me that it is possible to do that bearing in mind the fact that the industry in Australia is being sustained only as a result of tariff protection. I forget the terminology used by the honourable member for Wakefield in this regard. The words he used were to the effect that tariff protection is like giving an industry a golden handshake. 
The other factor is that bounties are being paid at the expense of the taxpayer. If bounties are to be paid and if we are to seek to expand an industry there seems to me to be a good case for getting some Australian equity for the Australian people. This is not an exceptional objective because many countries are seeking to do that at the present time. If anyone has the foolhardy idea that he can go into Indonesia, our closest neighbour, for example, with the expectation that he can take some capital in there, take charge of the country's resources, dominate its industry and repatriate the profits, he is engaging in wishful thinking and does not have a proper understanding of the facts. Therefore I put it to the Government that if we are to spend some money, let us support industries such as the electronic industry. Let us give them the support to which they are entitled- a green light to go on. Let us find a place in Australia for the electronics industry. Let us in doing so have regard for the fact that great financial benefits can accrue if we ensure that the bounty contributions that we make are used to buy some levels of public equity. If this is done, I believe that Australians will be very proud to be associated with what I hope will be the inevitable success of the automatic data processing industry. 
-The House is discussing the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Amendment Bill. I commend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  for a temperate and considered proposition that he has put to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  I hope the Minister will accommodate those points of view that have been put so eloquently. This is not a controversial Bill by any means, yet it is of great importance to a large number of Australians. I know that a great deal of public interest will be centred on this debate. Before I make the significant points that I should like to make I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it might be an appropriate time to suspend the sitting. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-The Minister sitting at the table- the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development- is sometimes referred to in this Parliament as the undertaker of things, especially those things associated with housing, since he, more than any other Minister, is involved with this process of devolution, process of jettisoning initiatives taken by the Labor Government. Of course, here tonight in this debate on the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Amendment Bill, yet another great initiative is about to go down the drain. This one was not initiated by the Labor Government; it is one of long standing. It was introduced way back in 1969. 
-As the honourable member for Darling Downs said, it was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government. I think that at that time the arrangements were to the effect that $5m would be expended each year over a 5 year period. The Whitlam Government took this measure a step forward, not in a destructive way but in a constructive way, as I think the Minister would readily acknowledge. I well recall introducing into the Parliament legislation which had the effect of widening eligibility and increasing the amount of money to be made available to the 
States for the purpose of providing dwellings for pensioners. I think it is important to recall that that 1974 legislation, which was introduced under the Whitlam Government, increased the annual allocation by 100 per cent. That is to say, $ 10m was made available each year of the 3 year program. 
-It was twice as much as had previously been allocated. With regard to the widening of eligibility, the scheme was applied to single aged persons and also to class B widows, that is, widows who were 50 years of age or more without dependent children or widows who were 45 years of age who no longer had dependent children, and to single service pensioners who were permanently unemployable or who suffered from tuberculosis. In my second reading speech in 1974, as the then Minister for Housing and Construction, I mentioned that this program was of a temporary nature while a survey of pensioners was made by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. This study which I initiated was completed late in 1975. It was the subject of comment by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  last year. This program is being reactivated on a much reduced level which is a matter for regret, having regard to the results of that study. 
Perhaps at this time it might be appropriate to refer to that study which I commissioned. The Australian Bureau of Statistics, acting for the Department of Housing and Construction, in November and December 1974 undertook the first national study to provide detailed information on the characteristics of aged persons' accommodation. The objective was to link this information with data on household incomes and expenditure on housing. The study was limited. It covered a representative sample of 4700 survey units- couples or single people. It involved the inspection of some 2000 dwellings occupied by such persons. The study found that the great majority of aged people were well housed. That is acknowledged. But nevertheless, it also found that a substantial number of dwellings- no less than 1 1 per cent of the totalwere rated as unsatisfactory when assessed in terms of factors such as the condition of the roof, walls and floors, adequacy of plumbing and various health and safety aspects. It was estimated that 14 per cent of single aged persons and 7 per cent of aged couples in Australia were living in dwellings which were in need of a great deal of attention or beyond repair. Of course the Australian Housing Corporation, which was another Labor initiative disposed of by the Minister in his negative pursuit of things housing, had a capacity to innovate processes which would have assisted in repairing the inadequacy of pensioners' housing. However, I am not sure that there is much available to serve that purpose at the present time. The State with the highest percentage of the aged in unsatisfactory housing was the State from which the Minister comesTasmania. Here 19 per cent of housing was designated as unsatisfactory. I am, of course, referring to housing occupied by pensioners. 
I hope that the Minister, in reply, will be able to indicate what kind of facility he will invoke to overcome this very great social problem in his own State because the Bill before the Parliament at present is a finale Bill. This is the end of the section so far as these non-interest grants to the States are concerned to provide additional funds for housing. The Housing Corporation which, among other things, was going to provide the facility to repair, renovate and rejuvenate pensioner housing has now, of course, gone out of operation. The Minister has a special responsibility to his own State. Is he going to leave this problem unattended? Does he intend to turn it over to the States in terms of federalism, declaring it as an objective but one for which there will be no federal finance? I ask him to look very seriously and sincerely at the needs of the people he represents in the Bass electorate and of people in other parts of Tasmania. But it is not only Tasmania that is involved, though Tasmania is in the most serious situation, with 19 per cent of pensioner housing designated and described as being inadequate. The figure is 12 per cent in Victoria; 1 1 per cent in Queensland; 10 per cent in South Australia; 9 per cent in New South Wales and 8 per cent in Western Australia. The report said that the proportion of the aged living in unsatisfactory conditions was higher outside capital cities- 14 per cent as against 8 per cent in the cities. 
One would have thought that the Country Party, whatever it is called in the various States, might have demonstrated some interest in this matter. Two of its representatives are sitting in the chamber in a nonchalant and fairly disinterested way at the moment. I am not even sure that they know what the business of the House is, but they ought to be aware of the fact that despite 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government, the situation in regard to pensioner housing in country areas is more serious than it is in the city areas. It was the intention of the Labor Government to redress the situation through the Housing Corporation. There is no program on the statute book at present or even heralded that might attend to this very serious social problem in country areas. I know that the 2 honourable gentlemen in the House at the moment who represent the National Country Party have an interest in these things. I suggest that they ought to get up and say something about them. The survey found that 16 per cent of the rental accommodation occupied by aged persons was unsatisfactory, compared with 10 per cent in the case of owned accommodation. Of course, the survey provides a lot more information than what I have been able to indicate in this cursory account of its work. 
The fact is that pensioner housing has been the subject of examination by several task forces in recent times. If one looks at the report of the Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm- a report often referred to in this Parliament as the Holmes report- one will see that the Government has in mind a number of new initiatives that have not been effectively revealed in the legislation. All we know is that this Bill is not to be applied after a 12-month period and that the slack is going to be taken up in some other way. Presumably it is going to be taken up by way of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, but we cannot be sure of that by any means. Paragraph 1.9 of the Holmes report reads: . . . the Committee recommends cessation of capital assistance Tor self-contained accommodation in 1979 at the end of the current 3-year program for expenditures under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act and the Aged Persons Hostels Act. 
The mind boggles at what result will ensue. The massive funding that has occurred over the years has been responsible for alleviation of the housing problems of many thousands of pensioners. That undoubtedly has been the main initiative of successive governments. Yet we have the recommendation mooted in the report that there be a cessation of those programs and then it is mentioned that the States are to share the costs for aged persons homes, hostels and nursing homes. All this is very ambiguously put. Nobody knows the details. We are operating in an area of the unknown in respect of these matters. There is highfalutin talk about the States taking over the responsibility, but there is no certainty that they are going to be adequately funded. Paragraph 7.B of the report states: 
Organisations managing self-contained accommodation should be encouraged to admit the needy without donation or, in some cases, with only small donations. 
That might not be too bad. The paragraph continues: . . . these organisations should be encouraged to charge other incoming residents a donation approximately equal to the replacement cost of the accommodation which will be occupied. 
Mention is then made of the possibility of housing for pensioners being incorporated in a new Commonwealth housing agreement. I think I had better read that. Paragraph 7.J states: 
The States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act should be extended for one year until 30 June 1 978 so that it can be considered in the context of negotiations for a new Housing Agreement. Consideration should then be given to the possible inclusion of guarantees of access for the single aged under the new Housing Agreement; this could obviate the need for a separate program. 
The Minister might like to explain today whether he is going to give effect to that recommendation and, if so, whether he has in mind that the aged people who will become the beneficiaries of the new scheme will be assisted by way of substantial subsidies or otherwise. We all recall that for some 20 years under the administration of Liberal-Country Party governments the process was to make funds available at 1 per cent less than the bond rate. The Minister is looking puzzled. Let me explain to him that that was the basis of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Funds were made available to the States at an interest rate not exceeding one per cent less than the bond rate. I am now putting it to the Minister that if that principle is to apply pensioner housing will be very expensive, irrespective of whether it is to be purchased or rented. It is time that the Minister came clean and indicated what kind of basis might be contemplated for the purposes of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. 
I think it is important to refer to the recommendation contained in paragraph 7.A of the Holmes Committee's report. It might come as a surprise to honourable gentlemen opposite to know that it has been recommended that subsidies under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act for the construction or purchase of self-contained accommodation should be discontinued at the end of the current 3-year program. The report goes on with quite a bit of criteria in that regard. It is very important for the House to contemplate the importance of the legislation that it is currently debating in circumstances where the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act might be abandoned or brought to finality. In other words, are we to have an on-going program for aged persons housing? 
-I do not know. We have certain reports before us. Those reports, of course, have been brought down in accordance with the terms of reference given to the committees. It seems to me that the Government is intent at the present time on bailing out of its obligations to aged persons housing and turning the whole situation over to the States without giving adequate guarantees that they are going to be properly funded and assisted to meet the very great need that still prevails in aged persons housing in Australia. We have this Bill for the winding up of this additional support for the States and we do not know at this time what is intended to take its place. I ask the Minister to throw some light on this matter because it is giving very great concern to the organisations concerned and the States, which are intent on ensuring that adequate funds are available to meet the very substantial problem that still prevails in aged persons housing in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What were the reasons for using a VIP flight to travel to Adelaide and Sydney on Sunday, 13 February 1977. 
Who authorised the flight. 
When was request made for approval and when was approval given. 
Did his Press conference held at Adelaide Airport last only 19 minutes. 
Why were TAA flight 198 to Melbourne and flight 22 to Adelaide which arrived at 9.23 a.m. and flight 27 connecting with flight 454 to Sydney which departed Adelaide at 9.55 a.m. and arrived in Sydney at 1 .30 p.m. not used. 
What time did the VIP flight (a) leave Adelaide and (b) arrive in Sydney. 
I do not want to talk for the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and his attitude; I think that he is capable of talking for himself. In fact, if honourable gentlemen opposite like to refer back to the speech made on the occasion of the honourable member's resignation from the Liberal Party, as recorded in  Hansard,  they will see his long list of reasons for his resignation. They include the inept management of this Government and the standover and provocative tactics of the Prime Minister (  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) with regard to his treatment of trade unionists which the honourable member for Hotham regarded as completely unreasonable. I believe that the honourable member for Hotham, having put on the record an expression of his own feelings, would be a hypocrite if he continued to sit on the other side of the House. I might add. nevertheless, that so far the honourable member for Hotham has continued to act like a Liberal in that he has failed to give any support to the Australian Labor Party. He has not even given us his vote on a routine measure such as the gag or something of that kind. So he is certainly in a limbo situation. I do not blame him in any event for trying to dissociate himself from the policies of the Prime Minister and this Government. 
I want to say a lew words about those policies because in my view, freeze or no freeze, the Government is determined to depress further the living standards of most Australians this year. In the 12 months to December 1976. average weekly earnings increased by 1 1.8 percent compared with an annual rate of inflation of 14.4 per cent- a loss of real purchasing power of 2.6 per cent for the average wage earner in this country. Let me give honourable members a case in point. The wage earner on average weekly earnings with a wife and 2 dependent children has lost a net $7.59 a week in the past year because of the Government's policies. This is arrived at bv taking into account gains through the new child endowment scheme and savings from income tax indexation totalling $1 1.62. and losses of the the child rebate tax claim, partial rather than full tux indexation and the imposition of the Medibank levy totalling $19.2 1. 
The Fraser Government's massive cutbacks in government expenditure have meant a higher budget deficit without a corresponding stimulus to the depressed areas of the economy. The deficit remains high because the Fraser Government has handed out over$1,200m to its business allies in the form of incentives, allowances and subsidies, none of which has increased productivity or employment. We hear from the Prime Minister that there are hard times ahead. One wonders whether he will cause any sacrifice to be made by the recipients of these great handouts. In fact, he and some of his ministerial colleagues might set a good example for others to emulate by volunteering to give up the massive superphosphate bounties from which they have personally benefited. A clear example of the Fraser Government's economic mismanagement was the devaluation of the Australian currency and eight subsequent revaluations last year. The one decision to devalue added 2.5 to the consumer price index in December and will add a further 2.3 to the March quarter figure. 
-The fact of the matter is that there has been a rise in import costs as a result of devaluation. If the honourable gentleman does not understand that, then he does not know what he is talking about. Although there has been some marginal indication of the effects of devaluation in terms of the CPI movement reflecting the rise in import prices, nobody can assume that they have reached their zenith and there is not more to come. So next quarter we will see the product-the chickens coming home to roost- as a result of that misguided policy, and the Government will have to continue to grapple with that situation. 
In addition to its continuous attack on living standards the Fraser Government is determined to create a confrontation with the labor movement throughout Australia. It has sought to do so through a series of inflammatory statements and by the introduction of legislation aimed at emasculating the industrial base of the labour movement, thus setting the scene for an industrial and political confrontation that could well tear this nation apart. The Government's proposed legislation to amend the Trade Practices Act. which was referred to tonight, and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which we arc to debate in the latter part of this session seeks to undermine industrial relations and conditions established by practice and precedent over the last 74 years of Australian history. The legislation is so inflammatory that even employer organisations have expressed concern at the Government's intractable attitude. The proposed legislation is also a breach of international conventions which guarantee trade unions freedom to organise and to engage in collective bargaining. The Government's strategy, of course, is to divert attention from its economic mismanagement and lack of social conscience by provoking the trade unions into industrial action to preserve their members' interests. What could any decent trade union or group of trade unionists do in their corporate state but fight to preserve the conditions which they have won over the years and which are now underattack by the FraserGovernment. 
Perhaps what the Prime Minister wants to see- I believe he wants to see it- is a confrontation with the unions leading to strikes and demonstrations, thus allowing him to seek reelection on a law and order platform rather than his Government's economic mismanagement and self-interest. There have been reports over the weekend- I think there could be some truth in them- that if the Government is unsuccessful in its referendum proposal seeking a change in the constitution to provide for simultaneous elections it might rush into an election and defer the Budget, in effect putting its finger in the water. Then the pressure could well and truly be on. Nine months ago the Treasurer introduced the Fraser Government's first Budget. Prior to that the Treasurer had sent shudders of shock and horror through most Australians with announcements of the abandonment of programmed cutbacks in funds and a reversal of election promises. Labor's social reforms, which were many and varied and twice endorsed bythe electorate, were knocked down like ninepins. 
-The honourable gentleman asks whether I said 'socialism'. I would like him to think back to the great reforms that were initiated by the Labor Government in regard to child care programs, urban improvement programs and the Australian Assistance Plan. I do not know whether he designates those programs as socialistic. I do not know whether he is anxious to disparage the emphasis that Labor gave to caring for the aged and disabled and providing many amenities with the backing of the Commonwealth Government which had never been provided before. We are starting to get a clear indication of what honourable gentlemen opposite think constitutes a policy of socialism. It seems that the only thing honourable members opposite are happy about are handouts to big business and even handouts to entrepreneurs from overseas, the people to whom we repatriate our dividends. If something is inititated in respect of the well-being of the Australian people, then it is to be sullied and set down by the aspersion of socialism.T he Labor 
Party will continue to espouse such policies, and 1 believe the Australian people will respond to them with enthusiasm. 
Even the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission periodically finds that the Government's policies are abhorrent. It is repelled by the heavy-handedness of the Government and the unreasonable demands made on the arbitration system. 1 refer of course to the assault that was made against wage indexation and the fact that the Government has sought to defer arbitration processes for the purposes of its wage-price freeze. Everybody would know of course that since something like 40 per cent of commodities were not to be effectively frozen, ordinary wage earners would be greatly disadvantaged if the Government were successful in its endeavour to intimidate the Arbitration Commission. I understand that even today the Commission has rejected the Government's submission that the CPI flow on should be deferred. So once again the Government's attempt at intimidation has been unsuccessful. 
Let me say in this respect that I understand that when the New South Wales Government goes before the Commission tomorrow it intends to provide the members of the Commission with a list of price increases which have taken place since the freeze was first mooted. Honourable gentlemen who have been denying that workers were to be disadvantaged might be surprised to learn that something like 3600 commodities have been listed by people making protests to the Consumer Affairs Bureau in New South Wales. Heaven knows what the aggregation of price increases would be over the Commonwealth of Australia. New South Wales is one State that happens to be fair dinkum about this matter. It will put not so much its own case but the complaints of the constituency, indicating that the Fraser Government was attempting to work a swindle in this matter by gaining an effective and total freeze over wages but at the same time allowing a significant variety of price increases to occur. 
The cumulative effects of this Government's economic mismanagement may now be assessed in the light of overseas experience during the same period. As the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  pointed out last week in this debate, the nonfarm product grew, albeit marginally, during 1975 compared with falls in seven comparable member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Yet in 1976 under a Liberal-National Country Party Government Australia's non-farm product increased by only 4 per cent compared with an increase of 5.5 per cent for comparable OECD nations. 
Let us look at industrial production statistics. In the period from 1964 to 1968 Australia ranked ninth in terms of industrial production. From 1972 to 1975, during Labor's term in office but not during its term of power- honourable gentlemen opposite will know what I mean by that remark- we climbed to fourth position. Last year we slipped back to eighth position. Despite this, the Government, particularly the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, have the gall to lecture to the Australian people on the failure of the Whitlam Government's economic policies. We can all recall the declared objectives of the Fraser Opposition at the time of the last election. They can stand mention once again. I remember the present Prime Minister walking the length and breadth of this country announcing the then Opposition's intentions when it came to government to reduce the deficit. But honourable gentlemen know that instead of reducing the deficit, there has been a massive increase in the deficit and the likelihood is that it will rise very significantly in the next Budget. 
-It is not nonsense that the deficit has not been decreased. The next promise was that the Government would reduce unemployment in Australia. This was part of the great mirage that was created. Of course, we now know that instead of reducing unemployment. Australia is faced with the highest level of unemployment since the Depression years. We had promises of a reduction in taxation. But so far as the ordinary wage earner is concerned, there have been no benefits in this regard. What has happened to the promise to lower inflation? The fact of the matter is that the rate of inflation currently is running at between 14 per cent and 15 per cent per annum. There is no clear indication either that that can bc effectively arrested. Ever)' one of these significant promises made at election time Ibr the purpose of inveigling the Liberal-National Country Parties into office has been broken. The people should recall that if they get the opportunity to vote in an early Senate election. 
One fact remains clear and it is this: The Labor Government did care about people. It attempted to provide the Australian community with services and amenities equivalent to our standard of living. I refer to hospitals, schools, health and community centres, pre-schools and the like. Now. this Government is seeking to turn back the clock. It is a process called devolution. It is sometimes called federalism. Of course, that simply means that this Government wants to get out from under and pass the buck to the States but not to ensure that the States are adequately financed to carry on the services. I look at one matter in that regard, namely that concerning the regional councils for social development within the Australian Assistance Plan. We know that the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health Services specifically recommended in its first report that if devolution of Commonwealth programs to the States was to be successful the basic arrangements as to capital and operating expenditures should be outlined clearly in an agreement. But now we have had an announcement by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on 21 May 1977 that the Federal Government would not provide any financial assistance for regional councils for social development. That is simply one case in point. 
The process of devolution, the process of buck passing, goes on. But we have seen no evidence that the Government is prepared to make adequate funds available for these purposes. I believe that the Fraser Government's attitude to the Australian people in this regard reflects its political and privileged background. It has ignored the people and buttered up its business allies- not the small businessmen, not the small manufacturers or the self-employed, but the dominant Australian and foreign corporations that have so much control over our industries. The Fraser Government has tottered from one economic strategy to another. Firstly, we were to be saved by the investment led recovery, a strategy that offered high investment allowances and tax write-offs to companies. When this failed, the Prime Minister exhorted the nation to spend forgetting that the reversal of his election pledge to support wage indexation had meant that most Australians could not longer keep up with cost increases, let alone spend more. The failure of this strategy again led the Government to its overseas friends. So after millions of dollars had flowed out of the country, the Government devalued the currency thus allowing exchange speculators to clean up and take their profits. 
That this decision was one of the Government's greatest disasters is well documented, most recently by the influential  Wall Street Journal  last week. It correctly stated that the decision had:   . . done nothing to improve the competitive position of local industry nor stimulate investment but had only compounded the complexities of lighting inflation. 
That decision, made by the Cabinet 'farm boys' as they were referred to by the  Wall Street Journal  who dominate economic decision making in this country, has cost and will cost the community millions of dollars. The flow on to costs in Australia has been very slow in registering in the consumer price index figures. We will have to wait a little longer before the props are knocked out just a little further through this Government's economic policies. On every front we find that this Government has failed to give decent economic management to this country. 
As recently as last weekend the Melbourne University Institute of Applied Economic Research issued a most indicting statement. I will not have time to enunciate it. But the effect of it was that every economic objective set by this Government has proved discredited and. as the journal says, unemployment will rise and inflation will rise likewise. I condemn the Government and ask the House to support the amendment moved by the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What percentage of the Atomic Energy Commission's budget is allocated for research into (a) effects of waste products of nuclear reactors on organic matter and (b) new or improved disposal methods of nuclear waste products. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral table in the House the statutory declaration he received from  Mr Geoffrey  Nicoll relating to Lockheed Corporation sales in Australia? Will he name the Government senators who last year called on the former Australasian sales manager for Lockheed,  Mr Peter  Mingrone, at his house in Los Angeles? 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Atomic Energy Commission decided to build a new nuclear reactor at Lucas Heights. 
If so, what is the estimated cost of the new reactor. 
When will building commence, and what is the estimated date of completion. 
What will be the capacity of the new reactor. 
What plans does the Atomic Energy Commission propose for disposal of additional waste generated by the new plant. 
Has the Commission consulted the Government of New South Wales, local government officials of surrounding districts and local residents about the new plans; if so, what were their reactions; if not, why not. 
Has his Department prepared an environmental impact statement under the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974; if so, when will the statement be made public; if not, why not. 
-The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who has just concluded his speech, talked about the prowess of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  and gave the impression that the Minister was one of the great achievers in the Fraser Ministry. I am not prepared to argue against the honourable gentleman. I should think that the Minister, who is sitting at the table, probably has achieved as much as any other Minister in the Fraser Government. Nevertheless, the facts are that he is regarded and is known in this Parliament as 'the undertaker'. That is in fact the nickname that is given to him here in respect of matters associated with housing, urban affairs and the environment. 
Mention was made about tax deductibility on mortgage interest rates. It was put as a virtue that this scheme has now been cut back and confined to those people who are entering into a contract to buy their first home and for the first 5 years of their loan. This is a situation which contrasts greatly with that which prevailed under the Labor Government when all home buyers were able to qualify for tax deductibility. So here is the first mutilated program. 
Then, of course, there is the question of growth centres. This program has also been cut apart. There is the abolition of the Australian Housing Corporation which was the vehicle by which the Australian Government for the first time in its history was to have a capacity to so something effective about the housing needs of this community. Rather than accept that challenge this Minister was responsible for jettisoning the Australian Housing Corporation. The urban improvement program was a scheme that was favoured by members from both sides of the House. But, of course, as things stand that is nothing more than a memory. 
The defence service homes scheme is another program that is under review. I am sure- and I confidently predict- that it will not be long before we hear about the dire consequences of interdepartmental committees which are considering raising interest rates and disposing of defence service homes estates and so on. Then there was the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act which we debated a short time ago. Of course, we heard the announcement by the Minister that this is the last year that the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act is to receive any funding from this Government. There is no point in the Minister shaking his head. That is the fact of the matter. If the Minister cannot remember, he should just refer to the  Hansard  record. The Minister would not be prepared to tell me in reply - 
. . . that there is going to be another allocation of funds after the end of this financial year under the States Grants - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) On which dates has he or have members of his family or staff stayed at Kirribilli House. 
On how many other nights did he stay in Sydney in 1976 or 1977. 
On which dates has the Governor-General or have members of his family or staff stayed at Kirribilli House. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Will he provide a full accounting of the item appearing on page 1 1 6 of the 1 975-76 Annual Report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission as incidental expenditure of $1.8 million. 
Will he also provide a similar breakdown of estimated expenditure under this item for 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) How many prescriptions of oral paediatric formulations of tetracyclines were issued in each year from 1 970 to 1976, and in 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of these prescription issues. 
What alternative antibiotics are available to replace oral paediatric formulations of tetracyclines. 
How many presciptions of these antibiotics were issued in each year from 1 970 to 1 976, and in 1 977 to date. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 26 April 1 977: 
What are the (a) location, (b) cost and (c) completion date of each public work which has been commenced or approved in the electoral divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
1 ) Was he consulted before prosecutions of 4 men on charges of gun-running and attempting to export medical supplies were commenced in Darwin in 1 976. 
If so, did he authorise or promote the prosecutions. If not, who authorised them. 
Are allegations that the prosecutions were politically motivated based on fact. 
Can he say whether the magistrate, in sentencing the men, stated that he accepted that they had acted out of charity and humanitarian interest and placed them on a good behaviour bond. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Construction and refer to his widely reported statement about the state of the building industry in which he said that the recession in the building industry had virtually ended, with only scattered pockets of inactivity remaining. How does he reconcile that statement with the claims of the Australian Government Statistician that over the March quarter total dwelling commencements fell by 9 per centseasonally adjusted- and private dwelling commencements fell by 10 per cent compared with the figures for the preceding quarter? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many persons in Caringbah and Wollongong Employment Office areas were registered for employment in June and December in each of the years 1972 to 1976 inclusive. 
What proportion of the persons were aged (a) under 2 1 years and (b) 2 1 years and over. 
What proportion were (a) female and (b) male. 
How many dependants were claimed. 
What were the principal work categories stated for those seeking employment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
What nursing homes approved under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act and National Health Act are situated in the Electoral Divisions of (a) Hughes, (b) Cook and (c) Cunningham. 
What are the names and addresses of the registered owners of each home. 
What is the number of approved beds in each home. 
What are the weekly charges in each home. 
-The Opposition would dearly like an extended opportunity to debate the pros and cons of the ministerial statement delivered by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  One cannot help but feel that we are involved in a very hasty and inappropriate process about matters that will have a great bearing on the evolution and progress of Aboriginal administration and upliftment in this country. We can hardly be satisfied with the process that is available to us at the present time. The Minister has made a statement and at very short notice I am given an opportunity to speak for a limited period. In any event, the opportunities for consultation are extremely restricted. 
One would have to join with the Minister in paying a tribute to the Hay Committee, and the assiduous way in which the Committee undertook its work. I had the opportunity of speaking informally with the Committee. I suppose my discussions could be regarded as evidence because I understood that the Committee's work was not conducted in a formal way. I am pleased to note that many of the recommendations which I made have been given effect to. Indeed, those recommendations amounted to little more than a statement of the intentions of the previous Labor Government which, of course, was caught short in respect of its administrative programs, including its Aboriginal affairs programs. 
-Well, there is no need to quibble about it. When all is said and done, the term of the Labor administration represented the greatest period of progress in the field of Aboriginal affairs that this country has ever known. 
-I would like to know who they are and whether they are speaking with any real knowledge and authority. I would very confidently assert that if they tend to disparage the statement that I have made they are not speaking for the Aboriginal people. Of course, the term of the Labor Government was a very significant period in the history of the Aboriginal people. Great initiatives were taken to give the momentum that was necessary to overcome 23 years of indifference and miserable neglect. That happens to be the fact of that situation. 
One of the Labor Government's cardinal objectives was to engage in consultation with the Aboriginal people. So much of what the Minister said today is about that innovation, that new creation if you like, in respect of Aboriginal affairs which can be attributed to the prowess of the Labor Government. The statement is about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee as it was first called. This process was instituted by the Labor Government to at last facilitate the hearing of the voice of Aboriginal people. That in itself represents a very great and significant development. Bearing in mind this high principle, it is extremely regrettable that this statement has been made by the Minister- doubtless the Minister's proposals will go on to some stages of implementation- without those consultative processes being effectively pursued. 
-Well, the Minister is looking intrigued about what I am saying. Just let me put it to him that we have in this Parliament the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I for one would not regard this Committee as an inappropriate body to be given the opportunity to look at this matter. I know that the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  who is sitting opposite me at the moment, does not want to disparage or downgrade the role of the Committee. The Committee is made up of honourable members who give up their time and almost all of the parliamentary recesses to study Aboriginal affairs. These honourable members would not want the Committee to be relegated to some rubber stamp or other innocuous role. 
The proposals contained in the statement are supposed to be the most important developments in Aboriginal affairs. I am surprised by the Government's attitude because I regard the Minister as being reasonably democratic in most things. However, he has not applied such a democratic process in respect of this matter. I am not even certain- the Minister has not made the position clear- whether in fact the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, or congress or conference, which I think we are calling it now, has been informed either about the intentions of the Government in this respect. It is apparent that a great deal could have been done. For example, my last comment reminds me of the need to make this point: It is proposed that we are now to have a body known as the 
National Aboriginal Conference. I have heard of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. That was the name given to the body by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  when he was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I know the Aboriginal people were anxious to have the body renamed as the National Aboriginal Congress. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  would be aware of the fact that I was prepared to co-operate with the Aboriginal people in this respect. But now we have this new title. From what great heights has that been dropped? Whose creation is this? The decision is flying in the face of a very strongly held view on the part of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, 41 elected representatives of which have decided that they want their organisation to be known as the National Aboriginal Congress. The first matter to which we come in the Minister's statement shows defiance of that voice. 
From time to time we have heard the Minister express concern about tendencies to paternalism. But to what else can this situation be attributed but paternalism when we see a completely new name pulled out of the hat? All honourable members will be interested to know of the intention to establish a Council for Aboriginal Development. Its real role and the extent of its prerogative need to be spelt out. To what extent is it likely to represent a mere Uncle Tom approach? Will it, in fact, be allocated a proper prerogative in these affairs? It is one thing to send along preliminary estimates and get some views but it is another thing, of course, to enable these people, either in the early or at some subsequent stage, to have an effective say which represents a degree of self-government. 
In many respects the recommendations of the Hiatt Committee are being followed in terms of what the Minister has put to the Parliament today. But also there are significant departures. Before I mention some of those significant departures I say that although we have had this matter presented before the Parliament rises, there is inadequate opportunity to engage in proper consultations or debate. We ought to have some explanation as to why it has taken so long from the time the report was communicated to the Minister for the matter to be brought before Parliament. I understand that the report was presented to the Minister on 4 November last year. It was actually tabled in the Parliament on 9 November. So the best part of 7 months has elapsed. I do not know whether the Minister can justify the passage of that time. At least there has been long delay. 
It is not without some pleasure that I note that the concept of a national Aboriginal body, call it what we will- consultative committee, corporation or conference- is to be carried on. This, of course, was a very significant Australian Labor Party initiative. In many ways I regard the announcement today as an evolution on Aboriginal affairs emanating from those years of inactivity, from the realisation by the Aboriginal people that they were entitled to a better deal, and from the fact that they started to demonstrate that they wanted to have a say in the administration of Aboriginal affairs and in the formulation of policy. I regret that the Hiatt Committee and the Minister in his speech today have engaged in pedantic pinpricking. The fact is that it was the Labor Government which harboured and supported the emerging Aboriginal voice. It was not only the Labor Government but also the Labor zealots going back to the mid-1950s who encouraged the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders to gather together with people like Faith Bandler and Joe McGinnis. I was returning officer at those Easter conferences year in and year out. I must confess that I did not have the pleasure of seeing members of the Liberal Party or of the National Country Party of Australia at those conferences. But there were always people like  Mr Bryant, Senator Keeffe  and many other Labor men at those conferences. 
It was the Labor movement which made available its office resources in the Parliament to give great backing and strength to the 1967 referendum campaign which resulted in 9 1 per cent of the people indicating their desire to see the Commonwealth Parliament equipped with powers to deal with Aboriginal questions. It was the Labor Government in 1972 which established the first ministry for Aboriginal Affairs. It was soon after the appointment of  Mr Bryant  as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- a ministry with an exclusive prerogative and which was a significant development, as the Minister readily acknowledges- he invited 80 representatives of the Aboriginal people to come to Canberra under the chairmanship of  Mr Joe  McGinnis who had been the leader of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. 
So the National Aboriginal Consultative Council was born, but not without some troubles. Some say it was stillborn and some say it had great birth pangs. It was certainly an emotional occasion, strongly felt and held by the Aboriginal people. I had the pleasure of being at some of those social engagements associated with that occasion. It does not have a charter paternally imposed on it by the Australian Labor Party Government. There has been great controversy over its constitution. Many comments have been made even in the Hiatt report about the matters pertaining to the endeavour to equip the NACC with an appropriate charter. I refer to paragraph 52 which concerns the short period when I was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It states: 
The new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Les  Johnson, took the view that there was no need for the constitution to go before Cabinet. He would accept responsibility as a ministerial prerogative. 
That is not my constitution to which I am referring; it is the constitution as proposed by the NACC. The report goes on: 
As far as he was concerned, it was up to the NACC to determine its own constitution and, for that matter, its own name. The Minister stated his preference for the original name, and he stressed that he would continue to regard the body as an advisory committee, with the implication that applications for funds to support activities outside that definition might not be warmly received. 

 Mr Johnson noted the NACC's plan to seek incorporation as an Administrative Association within the A.C.T. and expressed his approval. He assured the meeting that he regarded the provision of funds for an NACC secretariat as a matter of priority. 
A solicitor,  Mr Evans,  was appointed by the NACC. The report indicates that 'he held discussions with  Mr Johnson'.  The report states: 
. that  Mr Les  Johnson was prepared to seek the Prime Minister's endorsement for a change in the name from Consultative Committee' to 'Congress '. 
That was to give effect to the will of the Aboriginal people. The report continues: 

 Mr Evans expressed his strong agreement with the Minister's view that the constitution need not go to Cabinet. 
Paragraph 55 states: 
The matter of the constitution (or constitutions) appeared at last to be at an end. 
Later, in paragraph 56, the report states: 
On 1 5 October the Attorney-General approved incorporation of the Administrative Association, and on 26 November 1975 the Deputy Registrar of Companies in the A.C.T. issued a certificate of incorporation for the NAC Administrative Association Incorporated. 
Now we have gone through this process. It is true that it was painful and frustrating at times. What has happened now is that the Minister has torn up the constitution as prepared by the Aboriginal people and instead we have this new charter. There are many matters of great concern which one would dearly like to have time to talk about today. Many of my colleagues would like to do so. I ask the Minister whether he will give consideration to extending the time of this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ruddock)  adjourned. 
-Did the Acting Prime Minister tell a conference of the Country-Liberal Party in Alice Springs last weekend that the Government would decide to authorise the Ranger Uranium mining and export project? Is that the policy of the Government? If so, what then is the purpose of the debate on the 2 Fox reports that the Prime Minister has indicated will take place during the forthcoming Budget session of the Parliament and prior to any Government decisions on uranium mining and export? 
I will not keep the House for very long. The provisions of this Bill, as has been said, are consequential upon the abolition of the Australian Housing Corporation. When that Corporation was abolished the Defence Service Homes Corporation was established as the corporate entity to administer the Defence Service Homes Act. This Bill, of course, seeks to repeal the Defence Service Homes Corporation Act. So we see another change of course. There is total confusion in this area. It is confusing to ex-servicemen and it certainly is very confusing to the personnel who have been in the Housing Corporation and who now will go over to the new Defence Service Homes Corporation. The legislation establishes the Corporation under the Defence Service Homes Act. It makes certain changes to the staffing and financial arrangements under the scheme. The staff are to be employed under the Public Service Act. So the sort of statutory body characteristic that the previous organisation had has been altered. The body will no longer have the flexibility and versatility that it had previously. It will just be another routine government department incapable of meeting the housing needs of the people and using the resources that are available for defence service homes purposes in the best possible way. Of course, those resources are considerable, as the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  knows. 
One of the developments under the Labor Government was to consolidate the land holdings of the Defence Service Homes Division. Not long ago- in fact, on 2 November 1976- the Minister was able to tell me that 1223 hectares of land were held for that purpose, that we had purchased the land for $ 19.7m and that it is now valued at $39.4m. Honourable members might understand and recall that one of the purposes of the Australian Housing Corporation was to utilise this land for development purposes and not just for ex-servicemen. It was to be used for other people as well. The Corporation was to continue to build up that stock of land so that the Australian Government could take a very real initiative in respect of the needs of ex-servicemen and others. It would not be appropriate for me to enunciate the purposes of the Corporation. That has all gone by the board now. It is another aspect of the devolution that has taken place under this Minister who is often called the undertaker, the destroyer of Labor initiatives. Of course, this is just another comment in that destructive program that has been followed. 
I want to tell the Minister that a great deal of concern is being expressed about the present administration of the Defence Service Homes Act. I know that the Minister in this chamber is not responsible for the Defence Service Homes Act. In this House he only speaks on those matters. However, he certainly has a very big responsibility for the destruction of the Australian Housing Corporation which accommodated the defence service homes scheme. So we are not going to be able to maximise the potential in terms of the constitutionality that is available to the Commonwealth in respect of the housing needs of the people. That is what the Corporation was all about. Its purpose was to provide housing for servicemen, ex-servicemen, migrants and employees of the Commonwealth. Indeed, it wouldhave been able to assist the recipients of social service benefits, and special allowances could have been invoked for that purpose as well. I want to confirm my contention that widespread concern has been expressed by reading to the House a letter which I have received from the State Secretary of the New South Wales branch of the Returned Services League. It reads: 
Dear  Mr Johnson, 
The N.S.W. Branch of the RSL is concerned, that despite denials by the Commonwealth Government, there are, from time to time, media reports of proposed changes to the existing Defence Service Homes Benefits. 
The alleged media comments have referred to proposals to increase interest rates and dispose of residential land which has been purchased for the erection of Defence Service Homes. Speculations were published in mid- 1975, again in February 1 976 and more recently this month. 
On Wednesday, 4 May 1 977, The Sydney Morning Herald reported that the above matters were being considered by an inter-departmental committee including proposals for handing over veterans' Home Loans to State Building Societies. 
My State Council would appreciate that you recognise that the RSL considers such speculations are very disturbing, because of the insecurity and alarm they create amongst eligible servicemen, ex-servicemen and war widows. 
We request your support in preserving the interests of veterans and their widows who expect the Defence Service Home Scheme to be maintained in accordance with the conditions of service promised to them at the time of their enlistment in the Armed Forces of the Commonwealth. 
The letter is from  Mr W.  G. Osmond, State Secretary of the New South Wales branch of the Returned Services League. There is not much need for me to comment on it; it speaks for itself. It is an indication of the very widespread concern being expressed around Australia at the present time. I believe it is the obligation of this Government to maintain the momentum of reform and progress which the Australian Labor Party undertook in relation to the defence service homes scheme. If the Minister is starting to wince, let me give him something to wince about. I shall take a minute to mention several of the reforms which occurred under the Labor Administration. These reforms included the fact that loans were increased from $9,000 to $15,000. We extended the eligibility to single men and single women. For years and years people were calling for that provision, until the Labor Government was elected and gave effect to the proposal. 
We introduced a transfer of loans scheme to assist persons who were required to change their residence for reasons of health or employment. That is one of the matters about which the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  has just been talking. I do not think that he yet knows that we gave effect to a proposal along those lines. Of course, we raised the expenditure enormously. I cannot recall the figure for 1975-76 but I know that we brought the amount from $74m in 1972-73 to $1 15m in 1974-75. The amount went up much further in the next year. We expanded the category of qualifying personnel to include ancillary service personnel; for example those who served in the war theatres with the Salvation Army, the Comforts Fund and the Red Cross. This proposal was called for for many years. We changed the name of the legislation from the War Service Homes Act to the Defence Services Homes Act. We enabled national servicemen and permanent servicemen to qualify. What an enormous innovation. 
-The honourable gentleman is saying that that is a disgrace. The permanent servicemen of Australia will be delighted to know that apparently the National Country Party wants to defranchise the permanent members of the forces who now qualify after the completion of 3 years service! That was regarded as one of the great reforms under the defence service homes scheme. I have mentioned just a short number of reforms but together they add up to the most significant package deal of reforms to occur since the defence service homes legislation was first introduced in 1918. Now we have this legislation shemozzled in such a way that the staff is demoralised. I think the Minister knows that the staff is complaining. Many positions are unfilled. Other positions have been abolished. People are being worked in higher positions but they are not getting the commensurate salary. I am not speaking for myself here. I have received deputations from employees of this former great instrumentality. They want this Government to put the matter on an even keel and to make sure that the ex-servicemen do not have to wait for their loans and do not have to get second mortgages. That is what we asked the Government to do. We ask the Government to have regard to the record of progress and achievement for which the Australian Labor Party Government was responsible and to carry on in a similar vein to the advantage of servicemen and ex-servicemen of this country. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  for his consistent and well informed involvement in these matters. Likewise, I congratulate the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on his ascension to front bench rank and the manifestation of his enduring interest in repatriation matters. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  is at the table. 
-He is an old digger. He is often referred to in this place as 'the undertaker', the man who is involved with the dismantling of Labor policies. However, tonight we can hardly attribute that term to him. He has ministerial responsibility in the House of Representatives tonight for one of the recommendations of the Toose inquiry. There were some 300 of them. We have before us a recommendation which is not without significance but it is only one of the three hundred. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development is certainly incapable of being regarded as a radical or a progressive. He will not accelerate the processes of change. He could not turn back the clock on these recommendations but he is certainly not putting it forward with any great enthusiasm. 27Services The Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill arises from the recommendations of the Toose inquiry.  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Toose, prepared a large report of 3 volumes, containing many recommendations. Hopefully, as his inquiry was initiated by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government, supported by the successive Whitlam Government and sustained by that Government in its period of office at great expense, there will be universal enthusiasm about the recommendations which have been made. I am sure that the ex-servicemen of this country look forward to the implementation of many of these recommendations in the Budget session. I cannot help but feel that as important as this particular range of recommendations is, they represent a sop in many respects compared with the great weight of recommendations that have been made. 
-Minuscule is a good way to describe what is before the Parliament as against what could be before us if this Government would just give effect to the great import of these very fine proposals.  His  Honour's inquiry was commissioned on 27 May 1971 by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  who was then Prime Minister. As I have said, it was sustained during the Labor Government's period of office.  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Toose presented this first report in June 1975, nearly 4 years later. There has been speculation about the cost of the report. Some people say that it amounts to some $5m. We hope to get value out of that endeavour. I do not even begrudge the amount if it is going to mean the correction of injustice in respect of the exservicemen of this country or, as we now use the American jargon, the veterans of this country. So we are dealing with the first range of reports arising from all these recommendations. 
Without overdoing it, let me just summarise the amendments. The Bill proposes changes in the method of appointment of Repatriation Boards and Seamen's Pension Committees. It requires them to co-operate and consult with the Repatriation Commission. Another factor is that these territorial limitations that have applied in respect of the boards are to be removed. I think that is a good thing because there will be some cross-fertilisation of attitudes, criteria and philosophy. Members of the National Country Party are trying to interject. I think that I am probably supporting what they uphold in this matter. I do not mind their interrupting because I find it stimulating. If they keep it up I shall take my full 20 minutes. All I am saying here is that the evidence tends to show that these Boards have settled into a pattern of recommendation which throws up parochial considerations and matters of that kind. I am very delighted to say that there is going to be an abandonment of those territorial limitations by the boards. 
Another matter of very great importance which I was debating 20-odd years ago in this Parliament concerns the contentious section 47 of the Repatriation Act. I well remember the then honourable member for Balaclava,  Mr Justice  Joske, and  Dr Evatt  taking a very great interest in this matter and the Returned Services 's League bringing forward to this Parliament the Queen's Counsels' views on the interpretation of section 47 of the Act, which sets out the onus of proof provisions. I think that this is still of very great concern to the ex-sericemen of this country or the veterans as the United States Government members like to call them. In paragraph 8.14, his Honour said: 
The structure should be altered in the manner indicated in the following paragraphs. 
He went on at great length. I could quote those great volumes over a long period but he said, in effect, that repatriation boards should be abolished. Now they are not being abolished. He said: 
The initial determination of claims should be the responsibility of the Commission using suitably qualified persons. 
He went on to quality his definition of 'suitably qualified persons'. He was not just talking about nominees of the RSL. It is lovely to be able to bring these fellows onto the boards and all that, but His Honour was making the point about the competence of people- and a very important point I think he made. He said: 
The initial determination of claims should be the responsibility of the Commission - 
I point out that he said the Commission and not the boards- using suitably qualified persons. 
He then went on about the composition of the board. He said that the board should be comprised of: 
Departmental officers of wide experience with salary classification at or about class 10, third division in the Australian Public Service. 
All he was saying, in effect, was: We have had some jobs for the boys. I am not disparaging those men who came in from the RSL. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development is shaking his head. He should not shake his head; I am not disagreeing with him. He is not disagreeing with me. What is the Minister going on about? He wants the best of all worlds. I am simply reminding him that  His  Honour, who took voluminous evidence about this matter from the RSL and so on, has made this point in a very convincing way. It is all right for the Minister to nod his head in a benign way as though everything I am saying is wrong. But he is concerned, I am sure. The Minister will concede that  His  Honour is concerned with the wellbeing of the ex-servicemen of this country and he is saying that their problems in respect of the administration of the boards' affairs would be better in the hands of these people whom he has described. They are to be the people with wide experience and with salary classification of class 10 level in the Third Division of the Australian Public Service. I make the point; that is all. I do not have to agree or disagree with it. But it is notable that the Government in its recommendations, is disagreeing with it. That is the only point I am making. I think it is an important point to make. 
At present the Act provides that there shall be a 3 -tier structure for the determination of claims- the repatriation boards, the Commission and the Appeals Tribunal. There are 3 boards in New South Wales, two in Victoria and part-time boards in the other States. They sit for 6 hours a day 4 days a week. Each board has a senior departmental officer as  chairman  and includes representatives of ex-servicemen's organisations.  His  Honour used some figures in connection with the boards. There are later figures in the annual report. But let me talk about the figures applying to the boards which  His  Honour used. He said that in 1973-74, the boards determined 18 500 claims and had a total 25 185 claims for action. Of the 18 500 claims, 13 348 were disallowed and only 5 296 were accepted. I have here some figures which show that the same kind of figures applies to the Commission. I do not think that the House wants me to burden it with these details. Honourable members can look them up in the report. Would honourable members like me to give them the figures? 
-I am happy to cooperate. I just make the point that the same type of figures applied to the boards as to the Commission, the entitlement appeal tribunals and the assessment appeal tribunals. His Honour said in paragraph 8.5 of the report: 
Throughout the inquiry there has been a great deal of evidence criticising the determining authorities. 
He went on to say that the criticism had come from within the Department and from medical practitioners, from within and without. It had been important and almost overwhelming criticism. Of course the issues were to this effect: Whether the determining authorities were independent, whether they had appropriate status, whether there was inconsistency in interpretations and in their decisions and whether there should be any appeal. His Honour said: 
After consideration in some depth of the past experiences of the board system in Australia, the submissions received and the operation of comparable determining structures, both within Australia and overseas, I am strongly of the view that the initial determination under the repatriation legislation should be placed in the hands of the Commission and function in this respect through suitably qualified persons, acting individually as delegates. 
That has not altogether been the effect or the essence of the recommendations that have been made. There has been a compromise. I am not against compromise by any means. I believe that this might be a reasonable solution. But it is interesting to note the extent to which there has been a departure from the recommendations. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development is again shaking his head, but when the stage is reached where he has to reply he cursorily skates over all this sort of thing. He does not look seriously at anything. He has just to get the business through the Parliament. We know him here as the undertaker. There will not be any proper and effective comment from him about this very important matter which affects the ex-servicement of this country. It is a very vital matter. 
I am pleased to see that there is to be an amendment to section 47 of the Act. I paused just then because I thought for a moment that I was about to be gagged. I am especially encouraged by the enthusiasm of the National Country Party of Australia but certainly not by the Liberal Party of Australia, which is hardly in evidence in the House at the present time. There is to be a new provision concerning section 47. This is a fantastic subject. All the eccentrics about the rights of ex-servicemen can get their teeth into this subject. We did it for many years. What is the Minister's interpretation of what is to be done? In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The determining authorities will be required to grant a claim or application or allow an appeal unless they are satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that there are insufficient grounds for granting that claim or application or allowing that appeal. 
In relation to the great debates that we have had here over section 47 of the Act, I can remember Dr Evatt - 
-I think that the exservicemen of this country regard  Dr Evatt  and a former Attorney-General,  Senator Spicer,  as well as a former honourable member for Balaclava, now  Mr Justice  Joske, as the great freedom fighters about section 47. I have given some figures tonight about the massive incidence of rejections of claims by the repatriation boards, tribunals, assessment bodies and so on. Those of us who meet our constituents know that the exserviceman has been very disillusioned. There is this massive incidence of rejection. The onus of proof provisions of section 47 are extremely important. Nobody would disparage that contention. It is fortunate that the people whom I have mentioned- Spicer, Evatt and Joske- have brought a great deal of enlightenment to bear on these matters.  Dr Evatt,  as he was then, referred in  Hansard  in the 1955 to the judgment of  Mr Justice  Denning in the case of  Miller  v.  Minister for Pensions  in 1 947 when he said: 
Where the cause of the case in unknown or imperfectly known - 
As  Dr Evatt  pointed out, that happens in so many cases- the only proper conclusion is that the Minister cannot discharge the burden of proof, because the unknown cause may be a cause incidental to war service, and for that purpose the evidence must reach the same degree of cogency as is required in a criminal case before the accused is found guilty. 
Dr Evatt said: 
He means that it must be accepted unless one can say, as a jury must say before convicting a person, that the condition could not have had anything to do with war service, and be sure of that beyond a reasonable doubt. That is the statement of the principle. 
Many of the ex-servicemen who come into our offices are unable to document their claims because the years have passed by and the witnesses have passed by. I have been to Operation Grand Slam and Operation Nutcracker- the military exercises- and I have gone into the regimental aid post tent where the whole simulated exercise is supposed to be effectively monitored. I remember George Jones, a former honourable member for Capricornia, saying to a colonel: 'Where is the statement and the file about the condition of the man who busted his knee in this simulated exercise?', and there has been nothing. That happens even in contemporary times. Even in 1974- it might have been 1971 or something like that- it is still not being done in relation to simulated battles. No wonder some of the exservicemen who come into our offices are unable to substantiate their cases. The colonel passes the responsibility down to the major, the major passes it down to the captain, the captain passes it down to the lieutenant and the lieutenant passes it down finally to the sergeant, who says: 'Where is the record? Where are the details?' In a few years that man will turn up with a claim for osteoarthritis of the knee or something like that and the evidence will not be available. 
Let me say simply that I think that section 47-1 have done some study of this mattermight be being crystallised at the moment. It might put beyond contention some of the claims that people are making in respect of conditions that they sustained in the service of their country. I am not here to disparage this legislation. I think that in sweet reason it is something that has to be acknowledged as a worthwhile element of progress. I am only sorry that the major recommendations of the Toose report- some 300 of them- are not being received with the same enthusiasm from the Liberal-National Country Party Government. The Opposition supports the legislation. I hope that the ex-servicemen of this country will benefit from it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
What expenditures have been made in recent years under major programs administered by the Department of Social Security in the electoral divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham. 
-The Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  joined this debate this afternoon and once again displayed his impetuous and almost vandalistic attitude and his desire to consume the finite resources of this country. There is no one in a greater hurry than the Leader of the National Country Party to get stuck into using up our uranium resources. The fact of the matter is that the Acting Prime Minister has continuously pre-empted public debate. Public debate, when it is all said and done, is just not restricted to 3 hours of parliamentary debate. But the people of this country are entitled to know and to be exposed to the pros and cons of the many matters that have been the subject of deliberation by the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
The Government has done very little to promote public debate in this country. The Government has brought on this debate very hurriedly before the Parliament goes into recess so that it can say that there has been public debate. No doubt there will be some early governmental action after this debate is concluded. The publicis being left in the dark. 
-That happens to be the situation. The contempt with which the view of the public generally is held is probably best demonstrated by the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  actually made a statement, which is the subject of this debate, one day before the Fox report was presented. That in itself in my view represents a pre-emption. 
Shortly stated, the Prime Minister's statement of 25 May was designed to placate; it was designed to dampen rising public concern. The Prime Minister made ten or eleven points in his statement. One was that His Honour Justice Fox was to be appointed adviser to the Prime Minister on nuclear and associated matters. Criteria for uranium supply were laid out for our consideration. Australia was to be selective about the countries to which uranium was exported. Criteria were to be applied to the non-nuclear weapons states. Uranium would be supplied to them only if they were parties to the NonProliferation Treaty. Uranium would be supplied to nuclear weapon states only if they gave assurances that the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards standards would be maintained. Then there was a provision that once uranium left Australia it had to be covered by the Agency's safeguards in agreements to export. There were to be bilateral agreements with countries wishing to import Australian uranium to ensure no diversification to military purposes and to allow Australia to cease supply if the Agency safeguards were breached. These safeguards are to apply for the full life of the material. Fallback safeguards are to be included in the bilateral agreements if the nonproliferation Treaty safeguards cease to apply. 
This, in essence, is the outline of the proposals put by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  There are other proposals which time will not permit me to mention. I have a few questions to ask about these matters. Does the Prime Minister's statement cover existing contracts? In his statement, the Prime Minister pointed out: 
New uranium exports will take place under carefully considered and responsible conditions. 
Will this policy apply to the contracts already negotiated? After all, we are told that at this time 8000 tonnes are contracted but not delivered. Do the safeguards effectively complement the nonproliferation Treaty already described as inadequate? I do not think the contention which I am making is unique or isolated. The nonproliferation Treaty is said to be inadequate and ineffective. After all, His Honour stated: 
The non-proliferation Treaty provides only an illusion of protection. 
I am interested to observe that neither the Department of Defence nor the Department of Foreign Affairs made any submission to the Fox inquiry in relation to this important consideration, that is, the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the non-proliferation Treaty. 
-I think it is a good point. I raise it objectively because, if anybody is capable and competent to provide useful advice about this vital matter, it is one of those 2 departments. There is no point in being enthusiastic about the production of uranium for power and the resultant benefits to the world if we do not tie up the non-proliferation factor. It seems to me that by either design or omission Fox has been recreant to his responsibility or the Government has been recreant to its responsibility by not ensuring that the Departments of Defence and Foreign Affairs gave evidence on this important matter. 
Then, I ask: What sanctions can Australia realistically expect to impose in order to enforce safeguards policy? If these policies, which the Prime Minister has outlined as Government policy, are not given effect to, what do we do? What are the sanctions? I suppose that once countries with a similar philosophy to ours would have sent in a gunboat. In any event, this is a Government which believes in sanctions. We have been talking about the Industrial Relations Bureau. What are the sanctions to apply in relation to the breaching of an undertaking in this respect? Do we stop trade with the countries concerned? Do we refuse to export uranium? Do we break off diplomatic relations? Frankly, I do not think any of those alternatives are acceptable or effective. We cannot afford to stop trade. In any event, if safeguards are ignored after export, the damage is done. I describe the situation in terminology which the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is certain to understand: The horse would have bolted and dire consequences would follow. 
If we fulfil safeguards and do not export to countries which have dealt with non-signatories to the non-proliferation Treaty and which are developing plutonium economies, we must bypass the United States of America which has sold enriched uranium to India, and also Japan which, through its Australian Ambassador this week called on Australia to ignore the policy of the Carter Administration against fast breeder reactors which Japan is rapidly developing. Then there is the question of physical protection.  Mr Justice  Fox concluded: 
An attempt by a small, well trained and armed group to take over a nuclear installation could have a good chance of success. 
He goes on further: 
There is a very real risk that the opportunity and routine for nuclear blackmail will develop in time. . . . 
Recently, as is now generally known, an American college student and a British newspaper developed ways of constructing nuclear weapons. All they required was plutonium to complete their bombs. Unfortunately, in America alone, over 9000 tonnes of plutonium was listed as unaccounted for last year by the General Accounting Office. In addition, a United States based nuclear brokerage house has confirmed that, in 1976, it sold to foreign buyers 1 12 pounds of plutonium- enough for 3 large bombs -in 2 separate transactions. 
The belief that bilateral agreements will prevent the proliferation of the nuclear club is naive and not based on known facts. Even if bilateral agreements are made and if importing nations use Australian uranium for peaceful purposes, Australia has no guarantee that this will not simply replace uranium diverted to explosive weapon making. There is nothing in the Prime Minister's catalogue of assurances which safeguards this position at all. In other words, we could be supplying uranium for  bona fide  and non-belligerent purposes but that uranium could be taking the place of uranium which could be used for those undesirable purposes. The decision of the Nixon administration in 1973 to allow private enterprise to take over from the Atomic Energy Commission meant that in 1974, when the United States Atomic Energy Commission announced it was to cease selling uranium, it artifically forced prices to skyrocket. 
As a result the bottom dropped out of the United States domestic market and 2 United States corporations, General Electric Co. and Westinghouse Electric Corporation, face losses said to be in region of $500m each. For these corporations only the proliferation of nuclear reactors can save their huge investments. Thus, a grey market has developed. In addition, both West Germany and France, with nuclear technology comparable with that of the United States have begun their own sales campaign. France is to supply Pakistan with a $25 billion reactor and West Germany is to supply Brazil with an $8 billion reactor capable of separating plutonium from other waste products. 
The decision of President Carter on 7 April this year to halt the development of a plutonium economy has not stopped France or West Germany, nor has it stopped Iran's search for a nuclear reactor. The essence of the problem is not only the halting of fast breeder development but also the complete cessation of the use of nuclear fuel because plutonium- admitted by all to be a greater risk to world peace- can be made from the waste products of water cooled reactors.  Time  magazine has alleged that Israel has 13 nuclear bombs, made using plutonium allegedly delivered by the Central Intelligence Agency from the United States stockpile. By the end of this year 5 more military dictatorships will possess nuclear weapons. I refer to Spain, South Korea, Taiwan, the Argentine and South Africa. Who wants to leave the destiny of mankind in the hands of unelected and undemocratic national leaders? 
The safeguard issue appears to be a cover for the clash between the 2 commercial interests which stand to gain or to lose the most, that is, the uranium miners and the reactor manufacturers. The miners want high prices for their product while the nuclear reactor manufacturers must boost world sales to recoup their investments. To do this they must first maintain low prices for enriched uranium and, secondly, they must stop the development of fast breeder technology which cuts into their market. The fifth point of the Prime Minister's statement, requiring that all nuclear material be kept under full safeguards for the full life of the material, by implication requires that this protection will continue for 250 000 years. We know all about the arrangements under which the storage is to take place. Subterranean salt beds are to be used and there is to be a vitrification process, but can honourable members imagine somebody standing guard over these pits for a quarter of a million years? Can we really be certain that deposits so dangerous to the world will be effectively safeguarded? Notwithstanding the potential reprocessing of waste products to develop plutonium, the issue of storing waste products is of great importance. The Fox report stated: 
There is at present no generally accepted means by which high level waste can be permanently isolated from the environment and remain sa te for very long periods. 
The fact of the matter is that there are many matters unresolved and which stand in doubt. I believe that the policy of the Labor Party, which is being formulated progressively but which still represents sensible objectivity, ought to be looked at very carefully by the Australian people. We advocate that until the questions that I have asked, and many others which I could ask if there were more time, are answered there ought to be a moratorium over the exploitation of uranium. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the internationally accepted level of radioactivity in water. 
Are reports that over 1 million gallons of radioactive waste is pumped into the Woronora River each month accurate. 
If so, what is the estimated time lag before the Woronora River is so contaminated as to prevent its safe use by humans. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What methods are used to dispose of radioactive waste from the Atomic Energy Commission's nuclear reactor at Lucas Heights. 
What safety measures are undertaken to ensure maximum protection from the effects of the waste. 
asked the Minister for ' National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What monitoring of the levels of radioactivity in the Woronora River are undertaken by the Atomic Energy Commission or other Federal departments or agencies. 
How regularly are the levels of radioactivity in the river measured. 
What are the results of the measurements during the last 16 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) I las any land in addition to that listed in answer to my question No. 1401,  (Han sard,  7 December 1976, page 3454) been purchased for Defence Service Homes; if so, what was the purchase price. 
Has any land listed in that answer since been sold or developed; if so, (a) what land was sold, what was the sale price and to whom was it sold and ( b ) which areas have been developed and what was the cost per block of developed land. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What plans exist in his Department for the evacuation and protection ofpersons and property in the areas surrounding the Atomic Energy Commission nuclear reactor at Lucas Heights. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What plans exist in his Department for the evacuation and protection of persons and property in the areas surrounding the Atomic Energy Commission nuclear reactor at Lucas Heights. 
on asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
On which dates has the Governor-General stayed at public expense at hotels in Sydney in 1976 or 1977 and at which hotels has he stayed. 
Why did His Excellency not stay at Admiralty House or Kirribilli House on those occasions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) With reference to his reply to question No. 668  (Hansard,  25 May 1977, page 1 893) was any ministerial authority sought before the prosecutions under section 245 were commenced in 1976. 
If not, was he or were any of his Ministers informed by the Collector of Customs for the Northern Territory that he was considering the prosecution; if so, what advice was given by any Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
How many persons in the electoral divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham receive pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs and how many persons are receiving each type of pension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the Defence Service Homes Scheme is to be abolished; if so, are the reports accurate. 
Is the Department of Veterans' Affairs presently engaged in negotiations to sell land held for the Defence Service Homes Schemes to building societies and State housing authorities. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports of the growing discontent and lack of morale of the staff of the Department as a result of the uncertainty with regard to the future of the Defence Service Homes Scheme and also because of the large number of unfilled positions within the Department and the seemingly non-existent promotion prospects for most officers. 
-Can the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development assure the House that Federal funds have not been improperly used to finance Victorian Housing Commission land deals, including those being examined by the Victorian Government's board of inquiry? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed at the end of (a) February 1976 and (b) February 1977 in the Electoral Divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males and (b) females (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed at the end of (a) January 1976 and (b) January 1977 in the Electoral Divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males and (b) females (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed at (a) 31 December 1975 and (b) 31 December 1976 in the Electoral Divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham. 
) What percentage of the persons was (a) males and (b) females (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
What sums were paid by the Schools Commission in direct assistance to Government schools and under each program for non-Government schools in the Electoral Divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham in 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) How many copies of the First Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry (the Fox Report), were printed. 
) How many copies of this Report were distributed without charge. 
3 ) To whom were the free copies distributed. 
When were these free copies distributed. 
What price was charged by the Australian Government Publishing Service for the Report, and were copies freely available at all AGPS bookshops. 
What is the estimated print run of the Second Fox Report. 
How many copies of this Report will be distributed without charge. 
To whom will these free copies be distributed. 
When will these copies be distributed. 
When will copies of the Second Report be available from AGPS bookshops. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the Second Report is to cost SI 5 in total; if so, are the reports correct, and is it considered that the Government has fulfilled the recommendation of the First Report that widespread public debate should be facilitated. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
Was the omission, during the Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast of the Anzac Day parade in Sydney on 25 April 1977, to name clearly the group of men and women representing Australian soldiers, who were isolated and cared for by Timorese citizens in World War II an accidental omission or a result of a direction to comply with the present Government 's decision to ignore the Timorese. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) Are sufficient Customs officers available to ensure adequate protection against the illegal importation of drugs and other contraband goods on oil tankers using the Kurnell Refinery facilities. 
What transportation is available to Customs officers to search these tankers. 
Are all tankers using the facilities cleared by Customs officers; if not, at what level within his Department are decisions made as to which tankers are to be searched. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March1977: 
What is the average cost of (a) acquiring and (b) developing blocks of home building land on which each State housing authority is at present building houses. 
What is the average cost of (a) acquiring and (b) developing non- Housing Authority blocks of land in each State capital city. 
-The House will appreciate that the Labor Opposition has a very sincere, genuine and enduring interest in this question of Aboriginal land rights, since it was during the period of the Labor Government's administration that the first land rights legislation was introduced into this Parliament and the debate continued for a substantial period, notwithstanding opposition and frustrating delays that were prompted by the then Opposition. Regrettably the events of 1 1 November 1975 prevented that legislation from being enacted. Subsequently the new Governmentthe present Government- introduced legislation. There has been some deterioration of the standard of the legislation, as we see it and as it appears to be, in terms of the Woodward recommendations. Foremost among the points where there has been some alteration and some deterioration of high principles, ideals and objectives are the questions that relate to the control of adjoining seas by the Aboriginal people. 
I will not take up the time of the House this afternoon in going through the main body of the report. The report is a very good one and substantially it speaks for itself. I am quite pleased that there has been scrutiny of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly's role in providing legislation supplementary to the Federal legislation which was passed in this Parliament last year. It is true, as has been mentioned, that the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory operated diligently. Fourteen members of the two Houses of Parliament were involved in its work, which extended over the period of time referred to by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean).  Indeed, four previous Ministers who had responsibility for Aboriginal affairs were on the Committee. The present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  took an intelligent and active interest in the affairs of the Committee. We spent 1 1 days in public hearings in the Northern Territory and visited many Aboriginal communities. I believe that the report is an extremely significant and well informed one. We covered the identification of traditional owners and such matters as the extent to which there is adequate consultation with traditional owners. 
Then, of course, we examined the Northern Territory legislation. I do not think I am begging the question in any way when I say that we found the attitude of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to be totally inappropriate, inadequate and unsuitable. There was not a good word to be said for the legislation that was introduced by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly as complementary legislation to the main Bill. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs spoke out in a forthright way. Of course, there was also some indication that members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly had not complied with pre-arranged conditions. Be that as it may, those events have now passed by. It is clear that it is not good enough to leave matters with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly without some kind of supervisory role. I am not talking about general legislative rights, I hasten to assure the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  In respect of Aboriginal affairs and land rights, there is undoubtedly an antipathy towards the recommendations of the Woodward report on the part of dominant members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. They happen to be members more of the National Country Party than of the Liberal Party. I should not be happy, prepared, contented or placated to leave the affairs of the Aboriginal people in the hands of representatives of that type who consistently in their behaviour and certainly in their draft legislation have shown that degree of antipathy. 
We went on to look at sacred sites, the question of entry on to Aboriginal land, wildlife conservation and entry to seas adjacent to Aboriginal land. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and I are not mavericks- we are not outcaststo have brought down a dissenting report as we have done. The honourable member for Perth wants to castigate us for emphasising this particular aspect. Let me remind him of the minutes of one of the concluding meetings. They contained the following: 

 Mr Johnson moved; 
That the principle of paragraph 121 (a) of the Chairman's draft report relating to seas adjoining Aboriginal land, be endorsed by the Committee. 
Paragraph 121 (a) stated the following: 
Control of the seas 2 kilometres adjoining Aboriginal land should be vested in the Aboriginal traditional owner of the land adjacent. 
Who supported that motion? The honourable member for Wills happened to be absent when that question was put. If he had been there he would have supported it. He nods his head asserting that. But the people who did support it included me,  Senator Cavanagh  and the  Chairman  of the Committee, a Liberal  Chairman, Senator Bonner.  He believes that control of the seas two kilometres adjoining Aboriginal land should be vested in the Aboriginal traditional owners, yet the report has been brought down with an emphasis to the contrary. This is the very antithesis of what the  Chairman, Senator Cavanagh  and I sought to secure by way of that motion. We had a great deal of evidence for and against the proposition that control of offshore land should be vested in the Aboriginal people. I do not think I have to remind the honourable member for Perth that in the papers we had before us- the summaries of evidence- we could see that coastal Aboriginal groups strongly supported this idea. They stated they were prepared to negotiate arrangements to allow the use of waters for reasonable recreational purposes in areas adjacent to non-Aboriginal centres of population and to negotiate with commercial fishing interests who wished to exploit areas within those two kilometres. The Northern Land Council made provision in its draft Bill for Aboriginal control of seas adjoining and within two kilometres of Aboriginal land. As further evidence,  Mr Justice  Woodward stated: 
It seems to me that the legitimate interests of Aborigines will be protected if their traditional fishing rights are preserved and their right to the privacy of their land is clearly  recognised by the establishment of a buffer zone of sea which cannot legally be entered by commercial fishermen or holiday makers. An exception would have to be made in cases of emergency. 
He went on to recommend:   . . that the definition of Aboriginal land where a coastline is involved should include both off-shore islands and waters within 2 kilometres of the low tide line. 
We had evidence from anthropologists who stated that Aboriginals assert rights of ownership over the sea in the same way as they claim ownership over their land- through myth, ceremony and sacred objects. They stated that the sea is owned by individual clans and that clan ownership focuses on clusters of sacred sites which extend to cover the areas of sea surrounding them up to the boundary of territory belonging to neighbouring clans. We have this great weight of evidence on this matter. Of course, I do not have time to express all of it today. All we seek to do is to indicate very clearly to the Parliament and especially to the Aboriginal people that some members of that Committee uphold the recommendations of Woodward in this regard. I think we put the situation honestly and forthrightly when we stated:   we recommend that legislation of the Federal Parliament or the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly vest control of the seas adjoining Aboriginal land to a limit of 2 kilometres in the traditional owners. Further, we recommend that the appropriate Land Council be authorised to act for the traditional owners in granting access to such areas to non-Aboriginals having regard to the protection of sacred sites, traditional use and enjoyment of waters, the creation of buffer zones for Aboriginal communities and the protection of Aboriginal fishing interests. 
What is the position in a nutshell? Despite the weight of evidence and despite the Woodward principles, all of which have been endorsed holus-bolus by the Labor Party, the Committee's report recommends that we should depart from those principles. It will simply mean that, whilst the Aboriginal people will have rights, they will not have ownership of those 2 kilometres offshore. The Aboriginal communities will have to apply for their rights against the great weight of vested interests and the establishment. The Aboriginal people will have to join the queue. The process will be turned right around. Blacks need not apply, one might say. Even if the Aboriginal people do apply, they will have an uphill climb to get there. We suggest that it should be the other way around and that the right to the land should be vested primarily in the Aboriginal people and that others should have to apply. We have indicated that there should be provisions enabling those people who apply to go to the Land  Commissioner so there can be  arbitration and determination at times of argument or controversy. 
We do not suggest that the white people of the Northern Territory should be denied the right to go into those areas and fish or to use those waters for recreational purposes. We are simply saying that the whites all around Australia have had the inside running for a long time and that it is time we reversed the process and gav ve the Aboriginal people a flying start in this lond of situation because it involves their fishing and their religion. That two kilometres should be regarded as part of their land. We believe that this is a high principle to put and that it would result in a situation in which Aboriginal people would act in a cooperative way, if there was not a very obvious need for them to use their land, to ensure that it could be made available for other purposes. In the event of a scrimmage- a rip roaring controversythe competent Land Commissioner, who has gained respect already from members on both sides of this Parliament, would settle the issue. Does such a proposition have to be criticised? Let it be clearly understood that the honourable member for Perth, for one, is not prepared to uphold the principle that the Aboriginal people should have land rights in respect of those two kilometres off-shore. In any event, the  Chairman  of the Committee, who happens to be a member of the same party as the honourable member for Perth, agrees with the honourable member for Wills and myself. 
I do not have to apologise for expressing concern, together with the honourable member for Wills, about the great pressure in terms of time under which we had to operate. We indicated that it was due to the constraints of time that we finally did not have the benefit of a well prepared and documented report after all the papers had been swapped over and so on. The honourable member for Perth does not want to give away that right. It is written into the Standing Orders that we are entitled to it. For him to suggest that we are reflecting on the competence of the staff of the Committee is unjustified. I regard his suggestion as a deliberate misrepresentation of the facts, which amounts to impertinence. We made it very clear that we regard the staff as extremely competent people and sincerely hope that they will be given more consideration in terms of the time that the Government Printer extends to them. 
Finally, I believe that the recommendation which has been made to the effect that there should be a continuing committee will have the effect of pre-supposing the inability of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to administer the land rights legislation. I think it is a very bad principle to have committees of this type breathing down the necks of Ministers. That is unnecessary. But the extent to which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs considers that the ordinary processes of supervision in which members of Parliament traditionally engage need to be supplemented, he has the privilege and the prerogative of invoking the attention of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I believe it would be highly competent of him to do that in regard to land rights, as he has been doing recently in respect of alcohol and health problems affecting Aboriginal people. Let me say to the Aboriginal people who might be listening today that they ought not to give up hope. The opportunity could well arise for a Labor Government to reinstitute provisions which will enable them to have not only the right to use those waters adjacent to the sea but also ownership. That process would contribute to the dignity of the Aboriginal people in no uncertain manner. 
It seems to me that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  wants to have his cake and eat it too. He wants the best of both worlds in this instance. Incessantly Government supporters talk about the fragmentation of the union movement, yet when some effort is made to consolidate it in a contemporary way, as is being done in other parts of the world, they adopt this reactionary attitude. They raise any kind of opposition at all that will cast some slur over the trade union movement. The legislation applying in New South Wales enables amalgamation to be facilitated rather than handicapped. That is a good thing. If the honourable gentleman can wheel in anybody who can put up some kind of opposition to delay the consolidation of unions, he certainly will take that course whilst, on the other hand, he wil go on complaining that the trade union movement is fragmented to the disadvantage of the Australian people. 
It Will be a good thing when there are fewer unions in Australia. The position is well known. The statistics have been mentioned in this Parliament on many occasions. In countries like West Germany, where the population is in excess of 50 million people, there are fewer than 20 unions, whilst in this country we have in excess of 300 unions. There is a good case to be made out for industry unions. That is what the New South Wales Government is facilitating by its legislation. 
The honourable gentleman talked about giving everybody a vote. I suppose that if they had it he would get among some kind of ribald mob with the intention of diverting them from the desirable objective of consolidating fragmented unions. We are sick and tired of this humbug. It is time we had some support for governments which put up progressive legislation which facilitates the amalgamation of unions, as the Wran Government is doing in New South Wales. 
I rose to mention a matter which is of considerable concern to many constituents in my electorate and probably in the electorate of the honourable gentleman who preceded me in this debate. The Government has announced its intention to withdraw the payment of fees and living allowances to students who attend non-profit tertiary institutions. The institutions to which I refer are the local business colleges, such as the Metropolitan Business Colleges, of which there is a counterpart in every city of Australia. These colleges offer training facilities predominantly for people who want to start a commercial career. In my electorate- I think the situation there is similar to that which prevails in many other electorates- a young girl goes along to take a shorthand-typing course at the local technical college. There is a great queue of people wanting to get into that place. Unless she has a certain accomplishment in speed as a result of her high school education she cannot get in. The only way she can go forward to tertiary education is by going into a private college. Until now she has been assisted by way of the tertiary allowances which were introduced by the Labor Government in 1974. The announcement has now been made that these allowances will be curtailed as from January 1978. This is of very great concern to many families, especially low income families which are unable to sustain young people- not just girls but young men as well- who want to start that kind of career. 
I am told by the people who are lobbying Federal members of Parliament- I am sure all honourable members have received correspondence from these people- that something like 10 000 students could be thrown out of these colleges to join the dole queue. I regard this as a very undesirable decision to be made by this Government. I want to protest as vigorously as I can. This decision would seem to me to be the height of stupidity. It would seem to me to be of the utmost callousness for the Government to adopt such an attitude at this time when young people are representing such a high proportion of the unemployed - 
-But especially now because persons under 2 1 years of age at present represent only 12 per cent of the work force but 39 per cent of the unemployed. These figures are going to become significantly worse unless the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  alters this decision. I ask honourable gentlemen opposite to use their influence in the party room because it will not be long before the chickens will be coming home to roost and complaining parents will be on the doorstep of their electorate offices. 
-I also "had the honour of working closely with Rex Connor as we had adjoining electorates, each of us representing substantial parts of the City of Greater Wollongong. We were close friends for a quarter of a century. I held him and his late wife, 
Grace, in high esteem. Big Rex had a great feeling for the little people he represented- the miners, steel workers, migrants and pensioners. They loved and honoured him for his strength of character and unrelenting devotion to their cause. Often I felt his intense sense of pride as we walked together at the head of Labor and trade union marches through Crown Street, Wollongong. They all knew Rex and he identified with them by reaching out to shake hands and waving a response to their encouraging calls. 
He was the undisputed titular head of the Labor movement in Wollongong, a great Labor region. He led countless well-conceived sorties to upgrade the lives of the people in that region through local, State and Federal arms of government, all of which he served with distinction since he first entered local government 39 years ago. There are countless manifestations of his leadership and unrelenting efforts. A modest man, he avoided flamboyant publicity and had an aversion to those media men whose motives he distrusted. Yet he communicated with his constituents through a high quality column in the  Illawara Mercury  because that organisation agreed not to fiddle the copy. In Labor Party branch meetings, which he attended assiduously, he was a no-nonsense man who succinctly gave a brilliant analysis of the political issues of the day. He was tireless in attending electorate functions and readily made himself available to assist constituents. 
I visited him last week in hospital and despite the great discomfort of his illness he showed the bravest front and enthusiastically canvassed the current political scene. We discussed the pending redistribution of electoral boundaries, the plight of the unemployed for whom he felt very strongly, the uncertainty of the South Coast mining industry which he feared could be the subject of intense competition from Queensland open cut mines which have an economic advantage and, of course, we discussed the state of the economy. At his request I sent the Budget Papers to the hospital and I have no doubt that he mustered his ailing strength to apply his fine analytical mind to the consideration of their consequences. We discussed the quality of the preselection candidates who were aspiring to succeed him as the Labor member for Cunningham. He expressed the warmest satisfaction with the quality of these proteges and was sure he would be around to fortify his successor for another 1 5 years or so as he expected to live well into his eighties like his forebears. 
Wollongong is now in mourning for the loss of its most distinguished son. The memory of this fifth generation Australian and third generation Australian Labor Party stalwart will be revered for generations to come. Men and women of the Labor movement will seek to emulate his fine example. People in the streets, the shops, the factories and the mines throughout the Illawarra will be saying this week: 'Rex Connor not only passed this way; indeed, he made this way'. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the estimated percentage of migrants in the work force. 
What is the percentage of migrants registered as unemployed. 
How many offices of his Department have installed dual handset telephones connected to an interpreter service to help overcome communication barriers. 
What plans are there to place such handsets in Commonwealth Employment Offices, particularly in those areas of high density of migrant population, such as Wollongong. 
-The matter I want to raise tonight concerns the anxiety that many people have about the extension of the airport facilities at Sydney (Kingsford -Smith) Airport. I think it would be recalled by honourable members that this matter has been the subject of consideration and controversy over a very long period of time. A ducks and drakes game is being played in respect of this matter. As elections approach we find all kinds of camouflaged confusion invoked to deter people from understanding the real situation. 
Many suburbs in the Sydney region are adversely affected by the present activities at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and there is very great consternation that extension of the runway facilities could seriously aggravate the living conditions experienced by many thousands of people. 
I refer to the fact that the Government of New South Wales, through the Premier,  Mr Wran,  has indicated in a most unequivocal way that it will not support or countenance the idea of the development of a second parallel runway into the Kyeemagh area. Indeed, on the 1 8th of this month in the State parliament the Premier was asked a question about this matter by the honourable member for Rockdale,  Mr Bannan  The Premier said in part in a fairly long answer: 
It is true that one of the options is what is known as the Kyeemagh proposal. Without wishing to prejudice the considerations of that Committee - he was referring to the MANS Committee- 
I should like to let the honourable member for Rockdale know that I have made it clear, in a letter I wrote to the Rockdale Municipal Council on 2 1 July, that I can 'envisage no circumstances under which my Government would support any proposal for additional runways at Sydney airport '. 
He went on to say: 
I made it clear that we will not support further development of Sydney Airport that would in any way aggravate the existing impact of the airport on surrounding suburbs. Evidence gathered by the Government indicates overwhelmingly that it is not feasible to construct a parallel runway system at Sydney airport without enormous financial, environmental and social costs. 
I think that puts beyond doubt the attitude of the New South Wales Government. What is in doubt at the present time is the attitude of the Australian Government. I believe that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  should make a statement on this matter in the near future. 
I draw attention to the fact that in Budget Paper No. 5, which concerns the civil works program for 1977-78, provision is made for site investigations for a parallel runway system at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. It seems to me that this Government has to make up its mind on this matter. I ask the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard),  who is at the table, to refer this matter to the Minister for Transport. Since it is a fact that Budget Paper No. S makes provision in Division 83 1 for the expenditure of $51,079 for site investigation of a parallel runway at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, I want to know whether that implies Government support for a dual runway system. If the answer is in the negative, I go on to ask why this expenditure has been provided for in the Budget. 
There is one way to put this whole question beyond doubt and that is for the Minister for Transport to indicate that the provision should be withdrawn from the Estimates. This matter concerns people in my electorate, the electorate of St George and the electorate of Barton. I believe that it is one that should be settled with the least possible delay. It is having an effect on property values and some people are feeling extremely insecure. I challenge the Minister to indicate clearly whether this Government is going to take positive action along the lines I have suggested. 
-The Government which led Australia into the disastrous position in Vietnam is now recklessly flirting with the dangers of uranium. In the face of a flagging economy this Government is now seeking a mining-led recovery. With vandalistic impetuosity it is rushing into a situation without giving sufficient thought to all the factors involved. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  has been contending the economic advantages of mining uranium. Much could be said to throw doubt on the proposition he has put. When all is said and done we are talking about a non-labour intensive industry. We are talking about an industry that will engage in substantial repatriation of dividends overseas. There is no great certainty that economic benefit will accrue in a direct way to Australians. Then, of course, we must take into account the fact that the export income that will be derived from this activity will affect our trade situation. It will undoubtedly require us to import more goods. Finally, we can speculate that there will be a threat to our secondary industry. 
The Australian Labor Party wants to satisfy itself that all the safeguards that are possible are taken before we move into the mining and utilisation of uranium. We are concerned about the problems of proliferation, terrorism, waste disposal, contamination and environmental destruction. As was the case in the Vietnam situation, in time to come our stand will undoubtedly be vindicated. The way public opinion is developing at present, that position will be achieved in the not too far distant future. I shall mention some of the problems already in evidence around the world in regard to uranium. Between 1966 and 1975 in the United States of America, Argentina and France there were no fewer than 12 attacks on nuclear installations or facilities involving commando groups using well placed bombs, in some instances causing millions of dollars of damage. In the same period 128 hoaxes and threats to nuclear installations or facilities were received in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. On at least two of these occasions huge blackmail demands were made. In the same period there were hundreds of incidents of vandalism and sabotage at nuclear facilities in the United Kingdom and the United States of America, including arson attempts, the smashing of equipment and the severing of cables. From 195 7 to 1976 there were 15 known security breaches at nuclear installations and facilities in the United Kingdom, the 
United States, Germany and Canada. When we come to the question of penalties we see that between 1975 and 1976, 12 United States companies were fined for non-compliance with security regulations. All of this information is available in far more detailed form in an exposition provided by an eminent doctor,  Dr Flood,  from the University of London. 
The Fox inquiry has not any placating effect at all in respect of these great points of anxiety. In fact it shows that there are many hazards. Foremost among them are the hazards affecting the Aboriginal people. Tonight on behalf of my Party I want to concentrate, in the limited time that is left, on these matters which threaten the destruction of Aboriginal culture. I want to summarise several of the chapters of the Fox report. In chapter 1 the inquiry found that the traditional owners of the Ranger site and the Northern Land Council are opposed to the mining of uranium on that site. It was felt that their complaints were justified and that plans for mining had been allowed to develop without the Aboriginal people having an adequate opportunity to be heard. The Commission tried to give due weight to Aboriginal values and viewpoints but formed the conclusion that their opposition to mining should not be allowed to prevail. 
In chapter 2 the Commission looked at the Aboriginal occupation of the region- an occupation that has extended over 25,000 years. Since European occupation the Aboriginals have tended to concentrate mainly at Oenpelli, Mudginberri and Jim Jim but they still retain their traditional ties. The report also mentions that the Aboriginal population in this region that is affected by uranium mining numbers approximately 1,000 and that art works and important archaeological sites make the region one of the most valuable in Australia. It is ecologically and environmentally sensitive and significant. 
In chapter 4 the report talks about the relationship of the Aboriginal people with the land; the most important relationship for a traditional Aboriginal being that which binds him to a particular tract of land. There is a direct personal link between spirit beings or dreamtime heroes who gave the people their own tracts of land, the child to whom the spirit gives life in its mother's womb and the place from which the spirit came. This link is not even broken at death as the spirit returns to the site from which it first came. The report then goes on to talk about the sacred sites which have particular spiritual associations. Many are connected with the wanderings of the dreamtime heroes over the land at the time of creation. Some sites are subject to secrecy, taboo, prohibition and danger. The Government may think that it has provided adequate safeguards in this respect. Two sites on the Mount Brockman escarpment, Djidbidjidbi and Dadbe belong to this category being connected with the rainbow serpent. The Aboriginals are concerned that damage to these sites through mining could bring great disaster on everyone concerned. Anyone who takes an interest in reading the material available will discover this great mythology. 
There are more than 120 known archaeological sites in the region, of which only 15 have been excavated. They reveal evidence of the earliest human settlement in tropical Australia. In addition more than 380 art sites have been recorded and about 1,000 more are known to exist. Through having to make decisions in respect of mining, building programs, town management, social affairs and so on many members have withdrawn from this pressure and do not attend meetings of the Council in the Oenpelli region. They have already had enough before the mining industry intensifies. There has been a breakdown in the Aboriginal Council in that area. White staff members have had to carry a large degree of responsibility. This is not my contention; this is information that is contained in the Fox report. The report continues: 
There was considerable evidence presented to the Commission that the Aboriginals still regard their land in accordance with their traditions and their traditional beliefs and values continue to have meaning for them. 
The report states that employment opportunities at Oenpelli are under-utilised and that: 
Consumption of alcohol, lack of motivation to work for wages, interest in ceremonials and development of own ventures in decentralized communities are the main reasons. 
The report mentions the alcohol problem- the effects of white contamination about which I am talking. It states: 
The excessive consumption of alcohol by a large proportion of Aboriginal people is having a deleterious effect on general welfare . . . 
The problems associated with alcohol (disorderly behaviour, violence, noise et cetera) have upset the community over which there is an air of despondency. Low employment and school attendance figures are associated with problems connected with alcohol. 
The conclusion reached in this chapter is to the following effect: 
The Aboriginals of the Region are a depressed group whose standards of living are far below those acceptable to the wider Australian society. Their lives have been disrupted by the intrusion of an alien people. They feel helpless and lost in the face of mining proposals and their culture and traditional social organisation do not help them cope with the questions they have to answer. Their custom of reaching decisions over a long period of time is not allowed for. 
That custom has not been allowed for in the processes that have been undertaken under the auspices of this Government. Moving on to Chapter 13 of the Report, more mention is made of the employment situation. It states: 
The Commission feels that job opportunities created by mining are unlikely to attract many Aboriginal people unless they become motivated to participate in the mining program or ancillary services. The provision of services to the town, the development of handicraft and artefact outlets and the sale of market produce are also unlikely to increase greatly the number of Aboriginals in gainful employment. 
It goes on to state in respect of race relations: 
With the influx of non-Aboriginals into a predominantly Aboriginal area, conflicts and tensions will result, particularly in the construction phase of initial contact with transient workers. 
The construction of a town with modern facilities in contrast to the lower standard housing of the Aboriginals may cause resentment or feelings of inferiority. 
Is there not some indication that we might be going too fast with regard to the consideration of Aboriginal culture? Everything that I have quoted from the Fox report is to that effect. On the matter of health the report states: 
Measures would have to be taken to prevent an increase in venereal disease and the introduction of malaria. 
Some of these spindly legged people would be wiped out like flies if a white community were able to penetrate that area without proper safeguards being exercised. 
The report goes on to say more in respect of alcohol. It states: 
The mining companies say the situation is so bad it cannot become worse but there is a significant number of Aboriginals who strongly wish the situation to improve as the movement to outstations demonstrates. 
This report goes on and on sounding its warnings. On the question of whether mining ought to be allowed to proceed, the report states: 
The Commission accepts that the Aboriginals of the Alligator River Region do not wish mining to proceed. However, it does not consider that their wish should be allowed to prevail ... no compromise was possible on the issue. Once the 'go-ahead' is given for mining, all that can be done is to ensure that as many benefits and as few harmful effects as possible should accrue to the Aboriginals from the mining operations. 
The Commission does not try to justify its position beyond stating that 'we have given careful attention to all that has been put before us by them or on their behalf". It admits that 'It is not possible to say that the development will be beneficial to them '. Like the Aboriginals, the Commission seems to feel that mining is inevitable and that it is better to accept this and go on from that point, alleviating the effects as far as possible. 
I refer to the warning words of eminent Aboriginal spokesmen in the region in evidence to the Commission. I refer to the words of Silas Roberts, the respected Aboriginal magistrate in the Arnhem Land area. On the question of white people pushing them too fast, he said: 
We are worried that we are losing a little bit, a little bit, all of the time. We keep our ceremony, our culture, but we are always worried. We still perform our ceremonies. 
We are very worried that the results of this Inquiry will open the doors to other companies who also want to dig up uranium on our sacred land. 
Why should not they be worried? Look at the mining situation. Even the comments by  Mr Justice  Fox are significant. He referred to what he called the quite reprehensible failure of the governmental agencies to take action about serious pollution from the Gove operation and, what is more, a disinclination to acknowledge that there was any neglect. These are the words of  Mr Justice  Fox. So we look at all the evidence available from the Aboriginal people and the warnings of Silas Roberts and every significant Aboriginal spokesman. We cannot avoid coming to the conclusion that the impetuosity of this Government, in its grab to salvage the nagging economic situation, will have the most deleterious effect on Aboriginal culture. I would dearly love to have the opportunity to speak about other aspects of this report which relate to Aboriginal welfare. The Government rushed headlong into a situation which undoubtedly will result in the destruction of this indigenous people when the Government was given a mandate to safeguard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, as the debate on this stultifying Budget goes on the anguished voices of the political oncers ring out in this Parliament and the hopes of the Australian people run out at the same time. We have listened to a buck passing exercise on the part of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who must be feeling very insecure in his own position. He comes from the western suburbs of Sydney, the most neglected pan of the country and the part which has been denied most by the Fraser Government's enactments. No longer are there urban improvement programs, Australian assistance programs and Regional and Employment Development schemes to provide assistance to areas of that kind and the honourable member well knows it. 
For the second year in succession the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has presented the Parliament and Australia with a Budget that reflects his own ideological dogmatism and that of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Nowhere in the Budget Speech did the Treasurer disclose the real effects of this Budget- higher unemployment, stagnant economic growth, continuing double digit inflation and the redistribution of wealth to the most privileged groups in our community. In an address to the National Press Club the day after he delivered his death knell to the aspirations of thousands of young and old Australians alike, the Treasurer had the gall to proclaim that his Budget was 'tough on inflation without being tough on people'. Let him tell that to the 337,391 people presently unemployed, most of whom have been looking for work for at least six months. Let him tell that to the thousands of young Australians, and their parents, who are to leave school at the end of this year and who face not only a bleak employment future but the prospect of no financial support for the 10-week Christmas vacation- a decision taken in defiance of the High Court of this country. Let him tell that to the Aboriginal people who, in addition to losing their lands to the Government's mining friends and the greedy aspirations of uranium developers, have now suffered a further cut of 16 per cent in real terms. Let him tell that to the housing industry which has stated already that this Budget will do nothing to bring that industry out from its present state of depression but rather will lead to the retrenchment of still further skilled tradesmen, many of whom will be lost to the industry for ever. 
When I look at the official figures relating to the housing industry I note that for the June quarter housing approvals were down 17.3 per cent as against the June quarter in the preceding year. The official statistics show that in that same quarter, June this year as against the preceding year, the number of housing commencements was down no less than 1 1 per cent. The fact is that sales and construction activity are depressed generally and that large stocks are remaining. Any real estate agent will say that that is the state of the market. The architects and the builders will talk about the incidence of retrenchments that are occurring daily. 
The Treasurer not only has distorted the reality of his Budget but seemingly he cannot even quote correctly. It is little wonder that the national Press and the people of Australia simply do not believe what emanates from this loquacious word spinner. I heard a new name for him today from a person who I think is a journalist. It was 'the mouth from the south'. The Treasurer's economic competence can be measured by the fact that the rate of growth of real national product following his first Budget reached only 3.4 per cent- a depressingly poor result. Yet in 1977-78 the Treasurer admits that real national product is expected to grow by only 2.5 per cent. This is a sobering thought for a government which boasts of its economic expertise. Competitive figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development show that the average for the seven leading nations for 1977-78 is expected to be 4.5 percent. The best that can be predicted in our Australian economic scene is 2.5 per cent. 
In addition, non-farm productivity is expected to fall from last year's dismal 2.5 per cent to a mere one per cent. When added to the Treasurer's prediction of 'a more moderate rate of growth' in consumption and the known buildup of stocks over the past 12 months, the economic outlook for the next 12 months indicates a deepening of the recession which the 1975-76 Budget of the Labor Government was designed to defeat. The economic strategy in the propaganda of the then Opposition, now imposed on Fraser and Lynch in government, is now being seen for what it was- a divisory tactic designed not to revive the economy but merely to legitimatise their seizure of power. Power without policy is what the Australian economy and the Australian people are suffering from. This Government seems to be locked into its own dogma. It is the victim of its own nefarious preelection propaganda. 
Since December 1975 the Fraser Government has meandered from one economic panacea to another, all without success. We were told during the election campaign that the mere return of a Liberal-National Country Party government would provide such a boost to business confidence that economic recovery would occur automatically, but it did not. Then in May last year the Government announced the first of its public prunings 'in order to revive the economy'. This was to give added stimulus to the private sector. When this failed we were to be saved by a consumer led recovery- despite the fact that the Government was attempting to cut real wages and in fact reduce household disposable income by 3 per cent in the calendar year 1 976. The consumer led recovery never eventuated. It has never eventuated. In August the country was to be revived by an investment led recovery- at a cost of $1 10m in foregone revenue and incentive to industry. This was so successful that to halt the flow of capital out of the country and to provide the basis of an export led recovery the Government devalued the dollar by 17V4 per cent, then it revalued, then it revalued again, and again, and still there was no recovery. 
This present Budget provides nothing that will boost the economy, nothing that will utilise the 20 per cent idle capital of industry nor the 5.4 per cent of the work force now unemployed. These are record figures. We are talking about the highest level of unused resources we have known since the Depression days. There is nothing in the Budget to reduce inflation and to lift business confidence. On the contrary the continuing reduction in public expenditure will have contractionary multiplier effects on the economy, leading to reduced Commonwealth revenues and thus limiting whatever reduction in the deficit was sought. The OECD in June of this year, in its publication  Towards Full Employment and Price Stability,  said: 
We stress the importance  of  continuing efforts to convince informed opinion that Budget deficits are not in themselves inflationary so long as they are no larger than needed to counterbalance an excess of savings in the private sector. 
As all honourable members would be aware, private savings have continued to increase in the past 2 years, so the Government's obsession with reducing the deficit should be seen for what it ismere ideological dogma. If we take public expenditure as a proportion of the gross domestic product- that is, the product of the cost of all goods and services- we find that on the most recent figures available Australian public sector spending represented 1 5.4 per cent of gross domestic product whilst in the United States, the bastion of laissez-faire capitalism, it reached 18.8 per cent, in Canada 19.3 per cent and in Germany 19.7 per cent. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development recently reported that real government outlays have continued to grow in all seven largest member countries in 1975-76 and that 'some acceleration of government spending on goods and services in real terms can be expected during the current year'. Despite the lead shown by the OECD, this Government has again reduced its outlays. On its record of the past 21 months we can hardly expect that the Treasurer will be proved right and the major OECD nations wrong. 
Let me put it to the House this way. The Government is saying that the private sector of the economy is lethargic and that the spontaneity is missing which would enable it to get off the ground, start moving again and take up the slack in employment and the like. Yet it makes no effort on its own account to correct this situation. It is virtually abdicating from the field by withdrawing public initiative which previously had been in evidence. Whilst the Australian Government is taking this negative attitude and putting its head in the sand, comparable countries around the world are realising that the only way in which declining economies can be arrested, that bad situations can be improved, is for governments themselves to take initiatives. For that reason I have spelt out the fact that comparable countries are spending more of their gross domestic product on things public. Yet the reverse is the situation in Australia. We know the net effect of that Local government expenditure has been effectively cut by 5 per cent. We have heard what the honourable member for Mitchell said previously and we know the fiddle that goes on in that regard. We know that indirect expenditure has been reduced. We can increase direct expenditure to local government but we have been able to verify that there has been a net 5 per cent cut in local government expenditure. We have heard about education spending - 
-Even the honourable member who interjects cannot quibble with my contention that there has been no growth in education spending. The promise of a 2 per cent growth nas been broken, so there will be less school buildings. This is the point I am making. We all know that health programs are down by 9 per cent in real terms. The Sydney Press last night dealt with the great crisis in the adequacy of hospital provisions in New South Wales and, of course, there are similar problems around Australia. We know that the provision for pensioner dwellings is down by 18 per cent and Aboriginal funding is down by 16 per cent in real terms. Expenditure on urban public transport has been cut by 25 per cent in real terms while expenditure on leisure and recreational facilities has been cut by 60 per cent in real terms. We heard, the pandering by the honourable member for Mitchell about increased aid to sporting bodies but in regard to total expenditure on leisure and recreational facilities there has been an assault There has been a slashing by 60 per cent in real terms while urban programs have virtually disappeared altogether. 
What of the national sewerage program? In the previous Budget $50m was provided and in the last Labor Budget $120m was provided for sewerage. It was a great initiative. But this program has been totally abandoned in the present Budget at a time when we expect the Government to stimulate employment opportunities. There has been a great slashing of migrant services in terms of education, welfare, health and language training. We know of the way in which commitments to growth centres have been mutilated with promises broken in regard to the Albury-Wodonga, Holsworthy and BathurstOrange projects. Heaven knows where the young people are going to live. We know about the lovely situation which is represented by Canberra housing opportunities but we will never see planning and conditions like that elsewhere unless the Federal Government accepts its responsibilites in other parts of Australia. 
We are finding this retrograde tendency taking place at a time when masses of young Australians, many of whom are highly qualified and well-trained, are unable to get a job while the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  is apparently prepared just to say: 'They have some capacity as individuals in the area of private enterprise but we as Australians in our corporate sense are inept and inadequate'. That is what he is saying and the Government on behalf of the people is prepared to sit idly by and allow this situation to go on. The Minister is wiping his eyes. That demonstrates the hilarity with which he treats this subject and the indifference which characterises the attitude of the Government. If the Government is to get the economy moving there will need to be a real demonstration of concern for the Australian people and real initiatives from the Government. I could continue this great list of examples simply to demonstrate my assertion that the Government is abdicating in the face of a very great crisis. 
The fact of the matter is that the Government has added 67,000 more Australians to the ranks of the unemployed in the last 12 months. Despite the fact that 806,000 Australians were unemployed for some period during 1976, despite the fact that the young are grossly over-represented in the ranks of the unemployed, despite the high rate of unemployment among migrants and the outrageously high level of unemployment among Aboriginals, this Budget offers nothing to alleviate unemployment. There are no wideranging job creation schemes, there is no stimulus to the construction industry, no injection of funds for capital works. Instead there are insignificant increases in retraining schemes, a reduction in spending on apprenticeship training and no increased assistance for technical and further education for vocational training notwithstanding the fact that the unemployment benefit paid to the young unemployed represents over 200 per cent more than the total allocation for all vocational training. 
It is now clear, as plain as a pikestaff, that the Government's ideological commitment to reducing the deficit, a commitment it locked itself into by political point scoring during 1974 and 1975, will put at risk the futures of thousands of young Australians. Despite the fact that up to 10 per cent of would be school leavers have stayed on at school for the past two years and the same number or more will do so again this year, nearly 100,000 additional young Australians will seek to enter the work force this December. What will they face? There will be job ratios in metropolitan areas of one vacancy to 50 applicants if they are lucky while in some non-metropolitan areas that ratio rises in some cases to one vacancy for every 600 persons. There will be average periods without work of over 18 weeks with precious little counselling in job preparation or assistance to cope with the continued rejection of job applications. The social and psychological effect on these young people will scar many for life. Their social aspirations and futures will be diminished, and they are diminished because this Government is more concerned with profits than with people. As this Budget is put into effect the bankruptcy of philosophical and economic panaceas will be demonstrated. The Government has run its race. As far as the Opposition is concerned, the sooner the people have the opportunity to judge the Government's sorry record the better it will be for the future of this country and for all Australians. 
-I am glad that the House has not been tempted to talk about Leslie Haylen in any dour or miserable way today, because he was certainly not that kind of man. He would like us to have a laugh and probably a drink to celebrate the time he spent here in this Parliament. I had the good fortune to work in Leslie Haylen 's first election campaign and subsequent campaigns, and I hold as mementoes his letter of thanks and his early political pamphlets. He was certainly an animated and exciting man. 
I am pleased that I have the opportunity of speaking after the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  today because Leslie Haylen, although never a gourmet, was one who certainly enjoyed a nice drop of red. I remember an occasion when he came into the chamber with his touch of French sophistication and his knowledge of the vintage and talked excitedly on a wine Bill. He was followed in the debate by the honourable member for Mackellar who I think said:  'Mr Speaker,  the House has been treated to a delightful variety of a dry old medium red'. Leslie Haylen was anything but that. He was a colourful radical. He was an Evatt supporter at the time of the split. There was no equivocation about where he stood in respect of the issues of the day. I suppose that, when we look back and realise that the split was about bringing troops back from Asia, banning bombs and recognising China, symbolically we could say today that the great luncheon for the Chinese delegation was Leslie Haylen 's vindication. He felt very strongly about the need to recognise one-quarter of the world's population. He advocated that for the 20 years that he was a member of the Parliament. 
He wrote many books and devoted one of them to his visit to China. It was called  Chinese Journey.  He had many other great writings to his credit, such as  Blood on the Wattle,  a  Cavalcade of Labor History- a.  play- and  A for Artemis. Twenty Years Hard Labor  was his last work. He had a great part to play as a back bencher in the period when Labor was in office. It is not generally known, for example, that it was Leslie Haylen who went to Papua New Guinea virtually to hand pick the first patrol officers and to establish the patrol officer service. He was chairman of the Immigration Advisory Committee. It is not generally known that he went overseas virtually to hand pick the ships which were to bring the first migrants to Australia under the great plan of Arthur Calwell when he initiated the immigration program. 
Leslie Haylen was a great advocate of a national theatre. Today he would realise that many of his contentions have eventuated because of the enthusiasm he brought to bear. He was a very great poet. I have collected a number of his poems. I have some of my collection here in Parliament House today.  Chifley's Grave  is one poem for which he will be remembered. I shall read a couple of verses from it: 
The pomp of power and the talk of princes cease, 
The angry word, the hatreds fall and die. 
In austere beauty and in peace 
He lies beneath the arched and opal sky. 
Here was a man who loved the simple things; 
The breath of wattle and the stir of wings, 
The strong hand for a falling brother, 
The gentle gospel: 'Love ye one another'. 
There was his poem  Arthur  about Arthur Calwell, a man he revered. I shall read just the first verse: 
When a man dies and his friends weep, 
That is life and death in their order, 
But when a man dies and his enemies weep, 
That is greatness crossing the border. 
I know that he would have liked me to mention his dedication to bringing the Vietnam war to an early cessation. He wrote a Christmas card which was headed 'It's rainin' on the Barcoo'. I shall not read it all by any means. The last verse says: 
Yes, it's rainin' on the Barcoo, 
And it 's rainin ' back o ' Bourke, 
When will it rain on mankind, 
The Christ cry 'PEACE ON EARTH'. 
These verses in themselves symbolise the great spirit that was Leslie Haylen- a man who stood for the great things but who stood for them in such a human way, in a way that ordinary men could understand.  His  wife, Sylvia, and his sons, Wayne and Ron, would be very touched to know today that in the Parliament those people who served with him and those who have come after him can learn from the example he gave in upholding the cause of mankind. I convey my sympathy to Sylvia and his sons. 
-The stated purpose of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill is to amend the principal Act which was passed in 1976 in order to implement recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission concerning the distribution between States of the local government tax sharing entitlements provided under the Act. The main provision is covered by clause 3 of this Bill which replaces the existing table in section 5 (2) of the Act with a proposed new section setting out the revised percentage distribution of the base figure of 1 .52 per cent of net personal income tax collections in the previous year. That is the amount to be allocated for local government purposes. These funds are to be paid to the States for passing on to local government. 
Before proceeding with my remarks in this debate, I want to say to the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  who preceded me that his disparagement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Op- position  (Mr Uren)  and the contribution made y him in his former capacity as Minister for Urban and Regional Development was unjustified. There has been no greater champion in this Parliament for many years of the cause of local government than the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid. For that matter members of the Opposition can hold high their heads because the Opposition also has championed the cause of local government as I will go on to show during the course of my remarks. 
In the Labor Government's Budget for 1975-76 it provided $230m for local government. Expenditure of that size had never been contemplated in the 23 years that preceded the election of a Labor government. No matter on which side of the Parliament honourable members may sit they would all readily concede that the innovation of that Labor Government and its enthusiasm for support for local government captured the imagination of people in local government throughout Australia. That was a bonanza period for local government. New initiatives were undertaken from one end of the country to the other. That amount of $230m which the Labor Government provided in its Budget for 1975-76 represented 2.2 per cent of the estimated yield of personal income tax. The Bill before us relates to the Government's intention to re-arrange the distribution of 1.52 per cent of the revenue derived from income tax. 
I have some official figures from the Budget papers. They are contained in 'Commonwealth Government Payments To or For Local Government'. This paper sets out the various categories of payments for the years 1974-75 through to 1977-78. Honourable members can see these figures for themselves. Areas of expenditure accounted for in this table cover general purpose assistance, direct payments and other payments made through the States. 
We hear about the new federalism but I believe that a thimble and pea trick is being perpetrated on the Australian people at present. We have heard in this place many times the old saying that figures can he and liars can figure. That saying certainly is borne out in respect of the matter before us. The official figures, with the qualification that the figures exclude Medibank contributions, show that the share of personal income tax paid to or for local government in 1974-75 was 2.34 per cent, while in 1975-76 it was 2.98 per cent, in 1976-77 it was 1.76 per cent and in 1977-78 it will be 1.61 per cent. These are the official figures, and one does not have to be an expert to construe them as showing that there has been a deterioration in the position of local government and a decline in Federal support for local government in terms of its percentage of personal income tax. That is a very worrying situation for local government. 
Undoubtedly, local government is the neglected area of government in Australia. It is the Cinderella of the system. It is time to redress this anomalous situation not by mere tokenism or the gimmickry of federalism but by equipping local government with adequate financial resources to enable it properly to discharge its obligations. A lot of political capital is made out of the plight of local government from time to time and I know that many significant local government areas in New South Wales are taking the view that the introduction of this legislation at this time represents mere political opportunism. We all know that the New South Wales local government elections will take place next Saturday. The Minister admitted in his second reading speech that the guidelines have not yet been prescribed. He admitted that further legislation will be needed in the near future to tidy up this whole business; but it was so important to introduce this legislation before the local government elections take place in New South Wales next Saturday. The results of those elections probably will be construed by political commentators as a straw in the political wind, and if anything can be done by this Government to influence' the situation the Government certainly will seek to do it. 
The extent to which support should be given by the Federal Government to local government has been the subject of a referendum. All honourable members will recall the referendum conducted in May 1974. The purpose of the referendum was to seek authority for the Australian Government to make grants direct to local government. I believe that if that referendum had been carried local government would have been in a far more advantageous position than it is today. The grants that it was intended to make were of various kinds. There would have been repayable grants and non-repayable grants, tied grants in some cases, when mutually agreed upon, and untied grants in other cases. In most instances the shire and municipal councils around Australia, having had a taste of Federal support during the three years of the Labor Administration, were anxious to see that referendum carried. Regrettably, the No case campaigners misrepresented the situation by contending that a Yes vote would weaken local government by making it subordinate to the Federal Government and to Canberra. The old cliches were wheeled out about how the bureaucracy was going to take over, about the remoteness of Canberra being damaging to local government, and about how the Grants Commission would be all powerful. However, under the new arrangements there will be not just the Commonwealth Grants Commission that generally has regard for the needs of the States and determines relative needs all over Australia but also a grants commission acting in each State. So, if we were able to disparage the role of the bureaucracy before we will be able to do it seven times more strongly under the new concept. 
Let me mention a little more about the referendum. The Yes case was succinct enough. It was to the effect that local government had been starved of funds. That contention has been made, interestingly enough, by both parties over decades. I remember that when I came to this Parliament 22 years ago the New South Wales Government was receiving a report from  Sir Bertram  Stevens, a former Premier who had been commissioned by the then State Government to establish the extent to which comparable Federal governments around the world were giving support to local government. So, as far back as that we established that there existed a case of deprivation; that Australia was treating local government worse than most other comparable countries. The Yes case campaigners contended that local councils were unable to provide sewerage, roads, community health services, child care facilities and facilities for sport and recreation without huge rate increases. They also contended that the Federal Government should be able to provide funds without recourse to the middle man, the States, although it was acknowledged that the States had some constitutional prerogative in this area. It was a reasonable proposition. 
Then the No case people went to work. As I have indicated, they claimed that bureaucracy would be putting its fingers into every one of Australia's council chambers and would be enmeshing local government in a tangle of red tape and the like. The main contention of the No case campaigners was: 'Councils do need more money. The Liberal and Country parties, on return to government, will provide it'. That is the end of the quotation, but it is not the end of the matter. The figures which I have already indicated and others which I will provide show that that undertaking has not been fulfilled. So, here is yet another broken promise that reaches right down to the level of the people, because local government is the arm of government closest to the people. We can talk as much as we like about the defence needs of the country and about how we need new customs officers and all the fancy things in which we as the Federal Parliament get involved, but people do not believe that the country is being run effectively when they cannot get funds for priority needs such as kerbing and guttering, sewerage and drainage and when women are pushing prams through dustbowls in summer and quagmires in winter. So, the promise that was made in the referendum campaign has been broken and less funds are going from the Federal exchequer to local government than used to be the case. 
The referendum result was unfortunate. Most of the States, certainly all Liberal States, opposed it; but, despite that, in Victoria 47.3 per cent of the people voted Yes and 44.4 per cent voted No. The Yes case won there. In Queensland 43.6 per cent voted Yes and 41 per cent voted No. In South Australia 45.5 per cent voted Yes and 39.7 per cent voted No. In Western Australia 40.6 per cent voted Yes and the Noes amounted to 37.4 per cent. In Tasmania there was another victory for the Yes voters, with 40 per cent voting Yes, as against 37.8 per cent voting No. In other words, a majority of valid votes were cast in favour of the Yes case in each State; but, regrettably, there was not the clear majority that was required throughout Australia. On that technicality, even though the people overwhelmingly expressed their wish, local government has been allowed to languish and the spirit and the will of the people as expressed in that referendum have not been faithfully carried on. We are talking about a great instrumentality which spends something like $ 1,200m per annum on public services. More than half this amount comes from rates and penalties. 
Of course, the rating system is very much as it was back at the turn of the century when it was designed simply to provide service roads to, in most instances, substantial properties. But now the whole ball game has changed. What we have done is to equip local government with a great range of powers but not, unfortunately, with the wherewithal to legislate effectively about those powers. That is the situation. There is a new range of responsibilities which local government now exercises. A local government could run a bus service if it wanted to. In any event, it helps to finance pre-schools and senior citizen centres. It finances town planning operations and libraries, health care provisions and social services, kerbing and guttering, parks and all the rest of it as well as pre-natal care and pre-school care. You name it and local government can do something about it if it is given the funds. 
The regrettable factor is that we have this inequitable rating system. Two people can live beside one another in the same kind of house but their incomes can be vastly different. If the valuations are the same they each have to contribute the same amount of money to provide all these services. That simply means that there is an abandonment of the capacity to pay principle in relation to local government. In respect of federal needs we pay according to our capacity to pay. There are varying tax scales. The rich pay more in the dollar than the poor. The same situation applies in relation to State services. 
-This Government has always denied funds for local government. This is the point I am making. There is a need to bring greater amounts from the proceeds of uniform taxation to help finance this increasing range of services. The extent to which a government fails to do that simply makes inroads into the income of low income people because they have to pay the same as wealthy people for local government purposes. 
-It is iniquitous. I shall cite some figures very quickly because my time has almost gone. This is what is involved in payments to local government authorities by the Federal Government: In 1975-76 an amount of $272.9m was made available and in 1976-77 an amount of $ 190.4m was made available. That is a drop of 30.2 per cent. This year's Budget provides a total of $201.2m, or an increase of 5.7 per cent. The net effect, of course, is that in the period that Labor brought down its last Budget when compared with the last Liberal-National Country Party Budget there has been a very real decline in the amount provided in monetary terms and certainly in real terms, from $272.9m in 1975-76 to $20 1.2m in 1977-78. But not only that; programs which have been abandoned by the Liberal-National Country parties and which assisted local government include the Australian Assistance Plan on which $286m was expended in 1975-76; employment grants for that year which amounted to $14.8m, and there have been no funds since; growth centres have been virtually abandoned as the figure has come down from $3.6m to $2.6m; the area improvement program expenditure has fallen from $ 14,996m to $498m. Of course the sewerage program has come down from $25. lm in 1975-76 and has been totally abandoned. 
-I cannot see the need for belligerent behaviour at this hour of the night. When all is said and done, we are talking about the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill which is not the most animated topic in the world. It seems that at this late hour it is appropriate to talk in a calm, rational and factual way which I will attempt to do. 
And with integrity, which is the kind of advocacy I would expect from the honourable member for Adelaide. Overall, funds for the States have been increased by 9 per cent which is a reduction of about 2 per cent in real terms. Even these figures, however, are dubious. Last year, actual expenditure on specific purpose grants was $l25m less than the figure announced in the Budget. Although general purpose revenue funds have been increased, funds for specific purposes have been cut by 8 per cent in real terms and funds for capital purposes have been reduced by 12 per cent in real terms. A decline of 12 per cent in capital funds means extra unemployment. It means a downturn in the building industry and a major slowing up of construction of schools, roads, hospitals and the like. I do not think there is any dispute about that. If there is a decline of 12 per cent for these purposes there is bound to be a deleterious effect of the type about which I have talked. 
We are discussing funds which are made available by the Federal Government to the States. That is not a political contention; it happens to be a factual contention. As I will show, it is the kind of belief which is totally shared by the State Premiers. After suffering reductions for two years, the States must soon be forced to increase taxes and charges or - 
-I was just going to mention services. I am saying that in the situation where States suffer reductions over two years they have the option of increasing taxes and charges or - 
-The honourable member for Braddon has asked a question. I am giving the answer. The Government has two options. It can increase taxes and charges or services will be cut. Both these things are happening in the total State situation. So the federalism policy is likely to collapse. The collapse can come about for the following reasons: Last year the States expected to get an extra $90m under the tax sharing arrangements to balance cuts in specific purpose grants. As it turned out the $90m disappeared and five States have to rely on a guarantee to keep with the old formula. As a result the formula for tax sharing has been abandoned. There is now a dispute between the Commonwealth and the States over the new formula. I do not think there is any disputation about that. Any State Premier will tell honourable members about that disputation which is in progress at the present time. If that dispute is not resolved, federalism is finished. 
The major cuts in specific purpose funds include cuts in real terms for major programs such as education and roads. I cannot recall the figure for roads offhand. It is acknowledged by the Minster for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that in relation to education, the undertaking to uphold a 2 per cent growth factor has not yet been fulfilled. That being the case, with inflation there is a cut in real terms in education. A similar situation prevails in regard to roads. Another area of cuts concerns expenditure on pensioner dwellings which is down 18 per cent in real terms. Funds for Aboriginal advancement are down 16 per cent in real terms. Urban public transport spending has been cut by 25 per cent. Funds for national parks have been reduced by $2m to $800,000. Funds for leisure facilities have been dropped by 60 per cent in real terms. As every honourable member knows, urban programs have virtually disappeared. These, of course, include funds for sewerage which formerly were in the vicinity of $100m and land development growth centres which were formerly over $100m. Of course the States are concerned. In the New South Wales Parliament on 17 August an urgency motion was moved in these terms. 
That this House expresses its concern that the Federal Budget delivered last night: 
Ensures no reduction in unemployment for another year, 
Cuts back funding for primary producers; 
Provides for cuts in real terms in expenditure for traditional federal areas such as welfare housing, hospital and health services, pre-school and child care centres, legal aid, school dental schemes, growth centres, sewerage and other programs; 
Is not conducive to a return of confidence for the privat sector. 
The Premier, speaking on this matter, expressed great concern about the unemployment situation and the plight of primary producers. The fact of the matter is that unemployment is getting very serious and the Premiers have passed resolutions expressing their concern at this matter. They predict that unemployment will top the 400,000 mark by Christmas this year. The fact is this: The only concession in the Budget to unemployment is a slight extension of the youth unemployment scheme. Age of eligibility is to be increased from 20 to 25 years. But young people will still have to be employed for six months before they become eligible. Total expenditure on unemployment in the Federal Budget is less than $40m or 0.0004 per cent of total government spending. The cost of this unemployment scheme is less than the $60m the Commonwealth will save by its sinister proposal to pay unemployment benefits in arrears. 
There was a Premiers meeting. This is the point I was making in respect of the contribution made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  He was virtually saying that the States had been overindulged, that they had been given more than they could spend and matters of that kind. The Premiers met on 5 August and issued a statement of three paragraphs. I shall quote it because I think it is relevant to the argument. It reads: 
The Premiers today met in Melbourne and discussed the overall economic situation in Australia. As a result of this review, they urged an immediate stimulus to the economy through a balanced series of measures designed to expand employment, without abandoning the task of getting inflation under control. 
It is the unanimous view of the Premiers that interest rates must be reduced as a tangible contribution towards overall economic recovery and to assist in restoring confidence in the public and private sectors. 
The money market and the public are geared to a reduction in rates and the Premiers are firmly of the view that there should be an early and significant reduction in the light of the prediction given by the Treasurer at the last Premiers Conference that interest rates would be reduced this year. 
-The honourable gentleman is interjecting. I do not know whether he disagrees with the sentiments I have just outlined. He may not have been listening very carefully so I remind him that the sentiments are not mine; they are the sentiments of the Premiers, unanimously subscribed to. Premier Hamer of Victoria is just as enthusiastic about this as Premier Wran of New South Wales. Even Premier Bjelke-Petersen - 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I will not labour this point. It is the Premiers statement and I think it is very important. The Federal Budget did not contain one indication that interest rates would be reduced so that Australians would have access to funds to get the building and construction industry going. To that extent, from the standpoint of all Premiers, Liberal and Labor alike, there is a very serious omission in the Government's economic strategy. In other words, the Commonwealth has ignored this unanimous call by the State Premiers for measures to stimulate the economy. For example, look at the manufacturing industry. In that area employment fell by another 41,000 over the past year or by 3.4 per cent, and in the building and construction industry employment in Australia in the past year fell by another 12,000 or by 3 per cent. Australian manufacturing capacity utilisation is worsening. On the latest figures which were published in March it was below 80 per cent. According to the latest figures, Australian private investment was down 3.7 per cent in real terms on last year's figures which were also issued in March. 
There is this argument as to whether it is desirable to expand the level of public spending. It so happens that Australia's performance in this regard is not good by comparison with comarable countries. For example, in the United States current public expenditure on goods and services is 18.8 per cent; in Canada it is 19.2 per cent; in Germany it is 1 9.7 per cent; in the United Kingdom it is 20.5 per cent and in Sweden it is 23.6 per cent. In Australia the level of public expenditure- the proportion of gross domestic product that goes to things public- is 15.4 per cent. Is not there a good case to put against the 
Imposition that we should lift expenditure to a level comparable to that of other countries? It seems to me that there is. Let me just give the House a quick illustration. Several countries have increased expenditure over the last two years. As a result, unemployment has decreased. In the United States unemployment has decreased by 3 per cent and the government of that country claims that it is because of the stimulus given through the public sector of the economy. In Germany there has been a decrease in unemployment of 1 per cent. It is not a massive amount but it is a decrease and it is attributed to this stimulation of the public sector of the economy. Japan, I think, is in a similar position to Germany. I think there must be a lot of new thinking here. 
The State Premiers have made other statements which, if time permitted, I would quote. I have already mentioned some of the matters that are affected by the Budget provisions and especially by the provisions affecting money for the States. Let me mention one or two others. As a previous  speaker  said, local government is a topic which members could be tempted to get stuck into tonight because of the local government elections occurring in New South Wales on Saturday. Local government expenditure has been cut by 5 per cent in real terms. We know about the fiddle. There is an increase in the amount of direct expenditure. We know there has been a very wide range of decreases in respect of indirect expenditure. I do not have time to enunciate the details of that. With regard to the housing area, total expenditure- this is certainly a State matter- is down 30 per cent in real terms over the last two years. Total housing expenditure this year has been cut by $53m, a Budget fact. The area of pre-schools, certainly a State matter, has had a cut in funds of $6m. The Commonwealth is paying only 49 per cent of salaries in the pre-school area compared with 73 per cent last year and 75 per cent in the previous year. The school dental scheme, just another casualty, is down by only $0.8m, but it is down instead of being up. In real terms the cut is much larger than $0.8m. I refer next to Aboriginal health. Fancy Aboriginal health being a victim in any situation. It has been cut by $ 1 m. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  will acknowledge the truth of what I am saying. We have heard a lot about the sewerage program. It would be inappropriate to say that I do not want to dwell on this matter but the fact is that the Commonwealth spent $259m on sewerage up to 1976-77. Last year it was pruned to $50m. This year it has been abolished altogether. Certainly the States are justifiably concerned about that savage curtailment 
In this debate I was preceded on this side of the House by my colleague, the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon).  Does he not have justification to talk about the cuts of 33.3 per cent in the Glebe program? Does he not have justification to complain about the cuts of 60 per cent in the Woolloomooloo program? I come next to youth, sport and recreation. That is down by $3m. Every honourable member must be concerned about that This concerns wildlife, national parks and the administration expenses of the Heritage Commission. There has been a $3m cut in the area of youth, sport and recreation. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I have been endeavouring to show the curtailments in areas of expenditure affecting State adminstration financed by the Federal Government It would seem to me that the matters to which I have referred appropriately fit into that category. In consideration of the lateness of the hour, I will refer to one other matter. That, of course, is the question of the environment That affects almost every major State works program. One of the cuts is in expenditure on public hearings in respect of environmental impact statements. A very important democratic process affecting every State public works. 
-I do not want to quibble,  Mr Speaker.  I think I have made my point concerning that 88 per cent. That is all I wanted to say. 
-Indeed I do,  Mr Speaker,  and I have no intention of quibbling about this matter. From what I have said no honourable member can have any doubt that the States have been given a raw deal. The State Premiers have expressed their concern. I believe that in the very near future as elections occur at various levels around this country- not just local government elections but, for example, the South Australian State election- people in the community who are starting to feel the accumulated effect of this Government's ill-advised policies will react. The substantial effect is that private expenditure can go any way its wants, but the casualty has to be the public area. I believe that the public will react The chickens will be coming home to roost very very soon. I am glad that honourable members are being given an opportunity to speak very fully in this debate. I hope that the other members of the Opposition who are prepared to speak will be given the opportunity to do so. I appreciate the opportunity that I have had to reveal these important facts to the House tonight. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister authorised extensions to the Lodge costing a quarter of a million dollars? Have any other government contracts been let in the Australian Capital Territory during the last six months? Is the work at the Lodge the Government's only major contribution to the depressed construction industry in the ACT? 
I raise a matter concerning the administration of the Postal and Telecommunications Commission. It has to do with the issue of the Queen's Silver Jubilee Medal. As honourable members know, the Queen's mail is usually regarded as sacrosanct and treated with the utmost respect. But there seems to be evidence that the mail of the Queen's representative in Australia is not being treated with respect. I refer to the fact that a number of the Queen's Silver Jubilee Medals appear to have gone astray. I am extremely concerned that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has not seen fit to inform the Parliament or the people of this disturbing situation. I have in my hand at the present time a communication from the Customer Services Department, Administration Branch, GPO, Sydney. It is directed to all divisional managers, district managers and postmasters. I am told that a similar circular has been sent around the States. It is headed: 
AR' certified articles posted Canberra 27-28 July from office of Governor-General. 
It states: 
The following is the text of a telex message received from the Divisional Manager, South East Division, Canberra referred for your urgent attention, please: 
The Postmaster Canberra advises that approximately 1,500 A.R. Certified articles were posted at his office 27-28 July to all pans of Australia from the office of the Governor-General. 
To date 20 per cent of cards returned are incomplete without either addressees signature, delivery officers signature or postmarked. 
Arrangements being made to have cards returned to delivery offices for completion but if incomplete cards returned at same rate this Division will be acutely embarrassed as it is necessary to refer to Governor Generals Office for information about addressees. 
Would you please urgently request all offices in NSW and other States Head Offices to remind staff concerned of need to correctly complete A.R. Certified article cards. 
This was signed for the Manager of the Administration Branch. The concern is that many of these medals might have fallen into the hands of unworthy recipients. We know, of course, that the Federal issue came automatically to members of parliament and they went to Federal judges and to members of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Legislative Assemblies. Then, of course, the State members of parliament received them, as did mayors, town clerks, and officers of the Returned Services League of Australia. I think executive members of Liberal Party branches around Australia received them, and nominees of Federal members and the like. This medal is a very expensive item. Each is worth about $8 a throw. Apparently about $56,000 worth of them have been issued in Australia. We find that in total 20 per cent of the Federal issue have gone astray. If we take 20 per cent of the total number that have been allocated, it is reasonable to assume that 1,400 of these medals have gone astray- medals which cost about $ 1 1 , 200. 
I am very concerned that  Her  Majesty's mail is being treated is such a cheap and off-handed manner. After all, these were sent by the top class client of the postal service. What would happen to the valuable articles which a less distinguished client might send through the mail? The fact that the administration of the service has reached such a poor level that even the GovernorGeneral's mail goes astray to this extent should be of very grave concern to all Australians, especially those who are expecting to receive cheques, valuables, postal notes and items of that nature through the post. So I draw attention to the failure of the Minister to come clean and to reveal the facts of this situation. I challenge him now to indicate whether he has found the answer to this. 
-The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  said that a socialist was someone who wants a share of what someone else has. It seems to me that another way of putting this proposition is to say that a socialist is someone who wants a share for the people from the exploitation of the people's resources. This is the argument that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  sensibly put forward this evening. In my view he put a very reasoned and rational case. He pointed out that, in this view, the Labor Government in its enthusiasm for the objective that I have stated imposed a tax which might have been indiscriminate to some degree in that it disregarded profitability and fell with even handedness over the entire coal mining industry. He put the proposition that the Government should try to redress this situation and should impose a tax or levy which has more rationale behind it. 
The fact of the matter is that when this levy was introducted by the Labor Government it was designed to yield something like $U2m. Last year, even though the Government reduced the actual amount of levy, the yield was I think approxiamtely $121m. Even this year the estimated yield is about $90m, despite the fact that it is the Government's declared intention to reduce the duty from $4.50 a tonne to $3 a tonne for high quality coking coal and from $1.50 a tonne to $ 1 a tonne for other coking coal. If this levy had been going full blast it could have yielded some $200m for the coffers of the Australian Government for purposes associated with the needs of the Australian community. 
I think it is fair to speculate about the purposes to which such an amount of money could be put. I refer to the $90m that will be derived this year or the $200m which could have been derived if the levy had not been reduced. Let me tell honourable members opposite, as one who comes from a coal mining area and as one who represents half of the great city of Wollongong, that that city like the city of Newcastle is wreaking with deprivation in respect of all public services. The railway systems are antiquated. The services associated with the coal industry itself need massive upgrading. There is need in Newcastle and Wollongong for improved coal loading facilities. There is a need for better roads to carry the coal trucks to transport the coal. There is a need to electrify the South Coast railway system. There is a need to get the coal trucks off the roads. There is a need to upgrade miners' superannuation. One could spend a long time enunciating the purposes to which the proceeds of this levy could be put in respect of the coal producing centres alone. 
The fact of the matter is, of course, that there are many other needs to which the proceeds could be put. Let me mention, for example, the objective of converting coal to oil. I know that Professor Wen of the University of West Virginia stated in the Monash seminar recently that coal could probably to converted for $25 to $35 a barrel. I know that is expensive. It is something like three times the current Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries price. But there is no doubt that there is a need for some sort of start to be made in this regard. At the same seminar a senior projects officer of Shell suggested that a conversion plant costing $4,000m could produce between 50,000 and 100,000 barrels a day. There are many people who say that this fossil resource, limited as it is in deposit form, should not be burnt since it has so many other meritorious properties. 
In the shon time available to me in this debate, I wish to make some mention of Utah and other companies which are overseas controlled and which are moving into this great bonanza area. We have talked about a tax on uranium. One wonders why the Government does not have the same kind of enthusiasm for a tax on coal. The honourable member for Dawson, the previous  speaker  in this debate, referred extensively to Utah. This company is only 10 per cent Australian owned. It is certainly the largest coal producer in Australia. It employs only about 2,700 people. This is not a large number when one looks at Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, for example, which employs something like 60,000 people. Its profit has increased 2,000 per cent since 1972. Last year its net profit was no less than $137m and of that amount $91m was repatriated to the United States of America. Members of the National Country Party seem to be proud that these rip-offs are being allowed to occur in Australia. This reduction of $1.50 a tonne in the coal levy in the 1976 Budget means an additional $25m which is to be repatriated overseas and the further reduction plus the increase in production this year means that next year's profits will reach $ 1 80m. 
I have been speaking cursorily about the Utah situation. But one can run through the whole scene and see the extent to which overseas oil companies especially are moving into the coal industry in Australia. The Shell company has been involved on a very large scale indeed with 37 per cent of Austen and Butta Pty Ltd plus unsecured loans up to $20m. Shell has 16.6 per cent in Theiss Industries. Also it has 49 per cent in a joint venture with Theiss in Drayton Deposit, New South Wales. It has a 22 per cent holding in Theiss-Peabody-Mitsui which owns the Moura and Nebo deposits. 
The Wakworth Mining Pty Ltd operates parts of the Singleton lease. We find that this company is made up of the Costain organisation from Great Britain which holds 30 per cent ownership, the H. G. Sleigh company which owns 45 per cent, and the Mitsubishi Development combine which owns 15 per cent. Honourable members opposite will be gratified to hear that Australia through the T and G Insurance Company appears to have a 10 per cent equity in Wakworth Mining. The philosophy of the National Country Party seems to be one of crumbs from the rich man's table- a ruthless rotten sell-out. Members of the National Country Party are acquiescing in this mealy-mouthed proposal which will deny the Australian people $200m in earnings. One can go to any dubious part of the world- to the Middle East or to Asia- and one will not find people selling their country out as cheaply and as recklessly as members of the National Country Party and of the Liberal Party and prepared to do in respect of our great coal deposits. 
Australia has massive reserves of coal. Let me mention, if I may, one area of very great potential so far as coal exploitation is concerned. My colleague, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  would be able to give further startling figures in this regard if he was given the opportunity to speak tonight on this Bill. I will mention something of the potential of the Singleton coal deposits. It is to this effect: The Hunter Valley deposits contain - 
Debate interrupted. 
I was saying that there has been a survey of the Singleton coal deposits. The preliminary estimate of in situ reserves is that there are 45,000 million tonnes of coal of which 15,000 million tonnes has a cover of less than 200 metres and therefore has the potential of being mined by open cut methods, as the honourable member for Hunter points out. These deposits contain one of the largest and most accessible and concentrated resources in Australia. The resources are remarkable, even by world standards. By comparison, the Newcastle coal deposits can boast six or eight major seams that can be worked concurrently in any one area. The Hunter Valley deposits contain as many as 36 major seams in a given vertical succession capable of one open pit operation. 
A single 12-mile lease in the upper Hunter Valley exceeds, in money-in-ground terms, the whole of the famous Rhodesian copper belt. It is equivalent to more than ten times the value of the Bougainville copper mine. It represents ten times the revenue from the Alligator Rivers province if all the seams are worked and sold. It is worth about one-third of the value of all the oil remaining in Saudi Arabia. In energy equivalent terms the upper Hunter Valley resource alone is ten times as large as all known resources of oil and gas, both on-shore and off-shore. 
-Well, it is in Australia. I am pointing out, particularly to members of the National Country Party, that Australia happens to be in a very privileged and advantageous situation. It is generously endowed with these great resources. It is important that this Government, and indeed any government of the future, look at these resources objectively with a view to ensuring that the maximum possible benefit is derived from them for the people of Australia. If we look at world resources we see that coal represents 150 years of energy consumption at the current world level. Australia's coal reserves will last 350 years at the present rate of consumption. 
It was put by the honourable member for Blaxland when discussing this legislation that it is designed to deprive the Australian taxpayers of something like $90m. That is the sum which would have been received in revenue this year except for the passage of this legislation. I put it to honourable members on the Government side that this legislation is a development which can only be regarded as undesirable. It is inevitable that this legislation will be passed this evening, but Australians of every political persuasion will be calling on future governments to examine processes whereby in the future some reasonable returns will be given to the Australian people as a result of the exploitation of this very great Australian natural resource. 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is it intended to defer publication of Commonwealth Employment Service unemployment figures with a view to substituting a new system which would show unemployment running at 60,000 persons below the CES figures? Is the new system likely to cost an additional $2m a year? What is the justification for this expensive proposal to defer publication of unemployment figures prior to a premature election? 
-The Non-government Schools (Loans Guarantee) Bill is, in many respects, non-controversial. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has moved his amendment which might appear to be a pedanticism but which I think will be accepted by members as representing the objective of good government housekeeping. I listened to my friend the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I think he has the lizard by the tail. He made a far-reaching speech which would be appropriate on some other legislation. In many respects he has missed the point. I do not want to canvass much of what he said. If I could say, merely as an aside, he knows as well as I do that the Labor Government 's reputation in education is beyond reproach. The allocation of funds for education purposes after the election of a Labor government trebled. The concern of educationists in Australia at present is to the effect that the Government has failed to honour its election undertaking that it would maintain a one per cent growth factor in education. I will leave the 
General question of education at that. I do not beeve that people consider that this is the year to expand enormously expenditure on education, but I believe that a fair thing to do in this year of curtailment and restriction is to maintain a one per cent growth factor. 
In respect of this legislation let me say, as I started off saying, that it is not a matter of controversy at all. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith made it perfectly clear that the Government has the support of the Opposition so far as the general principles of this legislation are concerned. The honourable member for Maranoa is old enough in years if not in parliamentary service to know that the forerunner to this legislation was other legislation which concerned guarantees or which concerned the Commonwealth acting as a guarantor in regard to non-government schools m the Australian Capital Territory. The principle has been carried on into the States. When that legislation was before the Parliament at that time it had the support of the then Labor Opposition. It has had support in this unqualified way from that time on. There is no point in trying to make political mileage out of this matter. Politics should not be introduced. Most people in Australia hope that we have put the issue of non-government education beyond the realms of politics. The Labor Party helped to do that many years ago. I am a little surprised that the honourable member for Maranoa has tried to resurrect that issue tonight, to open up an old sore and to divide the Australian community. The matter has been settled. People are generally placated. To try to divide the Australian community is no way to operate in regard to a matter that concerns the well-being of young Australians. 
The concern of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith at this time of deficit financing is to ensure that there is good housekeeping. In another place there was a proposition to the effect that there should be an accounting to the Parliament after 15 days have elapsed. A substantial number of senators who I believe represented the various political emphases in the other place took the view that that should be done. After all, we are talking about a matter which could mean the Australian Government becoming the lender of the last resort in the nongovernment education area. 
The honourable gentleman said: 'What is wrong with that?' If he is suggesting to the Committee tonight that a responsible parliament and a responsible government should underwrite anything to an unlimited extent that is the height of irresponsibility. The people who will be the beneficiaries of this proposal would not put forward such a proposition for a solitary moment. In many situations governments are the lenders of last resort but certainly to prescribed limitations. I suggest to the honourable member that the recklessness which is abroad at this pre-election time which jettisons the concept of good housekeeping will have its sequel and its consequence. I seriously suggest to the honourable member that he ought to have regard for the fact that he is dealing with the taxpayers' money. 
No deprivation is proposed in this amendment. This was the point raised by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The fact of the matter is that there ought to be proper co-ordination about the whole matter. I remind the Committee that we are discussing an amendment to clause 7 which states: 
1) Guarantees given after the commencement of this Act and not later than 31 December 1 977 shall not guarantee the repayment of amounts exceeding in the aggregate $ 10m. 
Guarantees given in any year commencing after 31 December 1977 shall not guarantee the repayment of amounts exceeding in the aggregate $I0m or such higher amount as is prescribed in respect of that year. 
I emphasise those last words 'or such higher amount as is prescribed in respect of that year'. I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who represents the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to what extent he anticipates that there may be a higher amount? Might it be $20m, $30m, $40m, or $50m? What would such higher amount be related to? The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has simply proposed an amendment. It is in precise terms. He wants to add these words: but, where such higher amount is prescribed, the Minister shall table details of same within three sitting days. 
We are not worried about the recess period. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is simply putting the point that when the Parliament meets, its members and the people of this country should have the right to know precisely the extent to which this allowance of $ 10m has been exceeded. 
As I have mentioned, it is possible in terms of clause 7 of the Bill that the amount might be exceeded. It is as fundamental as that. I ask the Minister to say that if, it is not the case that it can be exceeded, he will give a guarantee that the coordination and organisation will be such that no more than $ 10m will be guaranteed. 
-The honourable gentleman makes some lewd interjection. I did not hear what he said but if it was in keeping with his usual interjections one could describe it as lewd. Does he regard the Parliament of this nation as being responsible for the taxpayers' affairs? Is it reasonable to know the extent to which the provisions of legislation are exceeded? Why is the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith regarded as unreasonable? I put it to the Government that it ought to face the facts of life. If it wants the amount guaranteed to be $20m or $50m, it should put that in the legislation. We do not want to engage in any sleight of hand. We want the Government to put things on the surface. The Opposition is anxious to ensure that this legislation will operate smoothly and effectively so that non-government schools can benefit. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) Has consideration been given to the use of airships to patrol the 200 mile resources zone to be declared around the Australian coastline; if so, with what result. 
Have the claims of Aerospace Developments (London) Ltd been examined to verify claims that airships (a) can be amphibious, (b) can carry radar capable of surveying an area of 500 x 200 miles every 24 hours, (c) could carry a small assault craft and (d) are unlikely to exceed a basic acquisition price of $650,000. 
Is it intended to conduct further investigations into the role of airships for Australian defence purposes. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Does  the honourable member for Hughes wish to raise a point of order? 
-I would just like to speak briefly because I know that many of my colleagues want to say something. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I am sorry. I thought you were raising a point of order. I call the honourable member for Maribyrnong. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Is the honourable member for Griffith taking a point of order? 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-The honourable member for Griffith will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-The honourable member for Griffith will resume his seat. I call the honourable member for Maribyrnong. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-The honourable member for Maribyrnong has the call. 
I want briefly to raise a matter which concerns members of the Amputee Children's Society. I think many honourable members might have been a little concerned a short time ago when the Press revealed that a deaf girl, who had been receiving the handicapped children's allowance, was to lose that allowance because her parents were making an endeavour to normalise her attitudes as much as possible by admitting her to a state school. Although there were very great problems involved in her attending a state school, including problems of transportation and the like, and certainly problems in relating to other children and problems in hearing lessons and so on, on balance it was felt by the parents and people who were advising them that this was a beneficial thing for the child to do. However, because the child attended a state school, the allowance has been taken away. 
I have in my electorate the  President  and the Secretary of the Amputee Children's Society. They have indicated to me that they and other parents are gravely concerned that parents making such an effort may be deprived of this benefit. Worse still is the fact that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  apparently has indicated to one of these parents in recent times that the handicapped children's allowance is to be subject to a means test. There is correspondence available to this effect. Parents come to me with very great concern and I, of course, have written to the Minister. The parents are now circulating a petition. If there is anything in their contention- and there certainly appears to be in terms of the documentation that is before me- and confusion about the situation the matter should be clarified as quickly as possible. 
I have in front of me a copy of a letter sent to a parent of an amputee child which spells out the Government's intention to impose this means test. The letter states: 
The allowance will be paid where a child's disabilities are adjudged on medical grounds to be marginally below what constitutes 'severely handicapped' as defined in the legislation and the family income does not exceed the adult minimum weekly wage ('Six Capital Cities'), at present $1 10.60 per week, plus $6 for each child. 
The letter goes on to state: 
It will be paid at the rate of SIS a week or the amount of expenditure associated with the child's disability, whichever is the lesser. 
The proposed means test of $1 10.60 per week, which is the level of the minimum weekly wage, plus the allowance of $6 for each child would naturally have the effect of excluding a very large number of families who at present receive the benefit. 
I concede that there might be confusion but I have quoted a paragraph from a letter which the Minister signed and sent on 21 September 1977. To my knowledge, there has been no indication in the Budget that the handicapped children's allowance is to be subject to means test. I know that if a means test were imposed many families who now incur very considerable expenditure in terms of providing facilities in the household, transportation, obtaining extra medical care and the like, would be unable to afford to continue to do so. In view of the nature of the complaint that has come to me, I put the proposition in the most reasonable terms possible. I sincerely hope I might have a very quick response to this matter from the Minister in order to avoid anxiety among these parents who intend at great sacrifice to come to Canberra to wait on the Minister in order to put their personal case of concern. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) Is it intended to constitute a Commission to organise celebrations associated with International Children 's Year. 
If so, will consideration be given to including representatives of non-government organisations on such a Commission; if so, will the special qualifications of UNICEF and Save the Children Fund be taken into account. 
-The House is debating the annual States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill. The purpose of the legislation is to give effect to the fifth year of a housing agreement which was negotiated by the Australian Labor Party Government. I think the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  in fact acknowledged in his second reading speech, and would acknowledge at any time, that this agreement has had a great impact on housing in Australia. Its introduction was timely in that it provided an incentive for public housing at a time when the private sector was degenerating, principally as a result of the policies which prevailed before 1972. There is no need for me to enunciate the fact that when the Labor Government took office a problem of an unusual variety was prevailing in the housing area in Australia. It was principally associated with the fact that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government ad failed to understand that a proper, effective relationship should have been maintained between manpower, money and material. 
There was a massive expansion of money. Everyone can recall those difficult days in 1972 immediately following the election of the Labor Government when it was impossible to get tradesmen at reasonable prices, when bricks, timber and white metals were in short supply and when houses were taking longer to build. It was necessary at that time to try to regulate the scene. The Labor Government moved into the area of public housing. It was not easy to redress the anomalous situation in which the Government found itself at that time. It takes a long time to train tradesmen and to bring the supply of tradesmen up to the flow of money which has been generated. But we recognise that if low interest money was made available the States would be anxious to do what they could to overtake the back-log in public housing. It was at that time that extended negotiations took place with the States. I heard the previous  speaker  the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  talk about the fact that a new agreement is in offing and indicate the displeasure of the Labor Government States with the terms of that agreement. An agreement means what it says. It is either an agreement or it is not. 
I sincerely hope that the Minister has been as successful in getting some acquiescence or some understanding about the housing scene from the State Housing Ministers as I was in negotiating the previous agreement. I shall go through the figures. Soon after our election in 1972 we provided $6.6m to take up the slack. We brought the 1972- 73 figure to $169.8m. In the next year, 1973- 74, there was an increase of 26 per cent, to $2 18.65m. In 1974-75 the figure went up, I think from memory, by 70 per cent, to $3 18m. That was almost double the figure provided by the Liberal Government in 1972-73. That fact probably needs some emphasis. In 1974-75 the Labor Government just about doubled the allocation which the Liberal Government had left as a legacy. In 1975-76 the figure went up to $364.6m. Actually, it was $375m because $ 10.4m had been provided in the previous year. In 1 976-77 the allocation went to $375m. Now we have a figure of $390m. That is history. I do not suppose people who are waiting for a house are concerned about that. But they are concerned about the new agreement which the Minister has been negotiating and which was the subject of his Press release on 15 September of this year. It is No.P77/30. 
I comment on my understanding of some aspects of the new agreement. It is very important for people to understand that without a Commonwealth-State housing agreement, without a public housing arrangement, many people in this country will be unable to obtain a house either for rent or for purchase. So this is important legislation for the little people of Australia. The new agreement which is in offing undoubtedly has some virtues. In my view it has some shortcomings too. In the first instance, as I understand it, it will be a three year agreement instead of the five year agreement which is about to expire. I think that is unfortunate. The States like to feel that they can understand the- scenario which will prevail for the next five years so that they can prevail in forward planning, in the acquisition of land and in the many other related matters. I do not have to go into them in detail. If the States are to depend on builders in the private sector to build houses it is imperative that those builders should get some understanding about continuity of work. This even effects the apprenticeship system in the building area, the sub-contracting area and the like. No one is going to take on apprentices unless he understands there is a schedule of work ahead. I think it is unfortunate that the Minister apparently has failed to negotiate a five year agreement. That will have some deleterious consequences. I wish I had more time to spell out the potential in that respect. 
-I will not get it so I will just carry on. The second factor is that as yet there is no indication as to the amount of funds which will be allocated. We will never know the real merits of this agreement until we see the extent to which the Government will put its money where its mouth is; in other words to the extent that it backs up the whole matter. I understand that the States are now to be free to set their own standards. Whether this is a virtue, only time will tell. If governments are to be free to set poor standards by using subsidised money which comes from the taxpayers, I think that is unfortunate. For example, is the Minister quite indifferent as to whether States might build high rise buildings which have anti-social features and which are bad places in which to rear families? If he does not care about that, that is a retrograde step. If he does not have much concern over the fact that one State-there is always a State which is at the lower end of the scale in terms of standards- wants to build little unimaginative fibro boxes with a lack of insulation, poor construction quality and on bad subdivisionsI have seen such developments which are especially in evidence in Queensland- where in many instances the roads have not been sealed and kerbed with guttering, where sewerage has been lacking, where there has been a deficiency of town planning considerations, relationship to employment opportunities, communication, schools, pre-schools and the like - 
The honourable member for Darling Downs is from Queensland. He ought to know. It is regrettable if he does not. If the Minister does not believe it is important to get value for taxpayers' money, I think he is letting the side down. The next feature is that it is intended to take away the provision which limits the number of houses to be sold. All Liberals, of course, think it is a virtue to sell everything. But the fact is that there is a lot of virtue in holding a stock of housing authority homes, especially in inner city areas. 
If the number sold is not limited- some of the States are prone to engage in a selling process- it has the effect of forcing the unfortunate taxi driver, the waitress, the lift driver and so on, out to the perimeter of the cities where they are often required to pay something like $5, $6, $7, or even $8 a week in public transport fares. These are the people who least of all can afford to pay such fares. So I think that is a bad factor. 
The previous Agreement did put a limitation on the number of houses which were to be sold. I might say that that was not achieved as a result of Labor doctrinaire standover tactics. Liberal Housing Ministers acquiesced with it. A former Minister for Housing and a former Treasurer, Leslie Bury, strongly advocated that proposition. So did the Director of Housing in New South 
Wales and many other people. They just understood that, if all the houses were sold off in order to get the quick quid, people would be forced out to the perimeter areas and that the replacement costs would be very considerable indeed. 
Another intention declared by the Minister is to lift interest rates on money borrowed to construct rental housing from 4 per cent to 5 per cent. That would result in rent increases. I do not regard that as being a virtue. Many people who live in State housing authority homes throughout Australia will be very gravely concerned about that declared intention. We are told that there will be no restriction on sales at all. I have covered that point. As there are other matters I wish to deal with, I will not have time to go into that matter any further. Housing sales will be at market value or replacement costs. Rents are to be raised to the market value. I know that there is a proposal in relation to rent rebates, but the details of that have not been spelt out. In fact, the details are to be left to the States to work out, and we know the indifference displayed by some States, especially Queensland where a very peculiar system operates. The Minister seems to be quite content to let people become the victims of the determination that anybody might make in that regard. I contend that that is another very serious omission and mistake that he is about to make. 
I think all honourable gentlemen will understand that there is a Home Builders' Account which provides funds to build houses for sale or to enable people to purchase houses from terminating building societies. There is to be a change m the interest rates arrangement. At the moment interest rates have been limited to S.5 per cent. People whose income does not exceed 95 per cent of average weekly earnings have been able to get their home loan at an interest rate of 5.5 per cent. But the Minister's new proposal is: The interest rate will be 5 per cent in the first year and will escalate at the rate of 0.5 per cent per year up to the ruling bond rate. I am not sure what the bond rate is at the moment. It is a little more than 9 per cent. This is where the Labor Government first came in. When the Labor Government negotiated the Housing Agreement it found that the Liberals had left behind a situation in which the interest rate which the States had to pay was 1 per cent less than the bond rate. That is to say, at the present time the interest rate paid is 1 per cent less than the current bond rate which I said before is a little more than 9 per cent. We fixed the interest rate at 4 per cent for 53 years. 
-Now it is proposed, if I can say something over the noise of this jackaroo who incessantly interjects for the want of something sensible to say, that the interest rate escalates by 0.5 per cent every year until it reaches the ruling bond rate. I am referring to those people who get loans under the Home Builders' Account. As I understand it, that is a proper analysis of the situation. The Minister says: 'Under my proposal repayments on an $18,000 loan those paying the lowest rate would be about $24 a week in the first year but would rise to $38 a week after about 10 years if the bond rate remains at its present level'. I do not know that that is such great news for the people concerned. I would like to hear that proposition justified. It is a backward step, and it will cause very grave concern throughout the community. 
The Minister also says: 'The rate of interest would not remain fixed but vary with movements in the bond rate'. I emphasise those words. He says: 'This would enable end borrowers to benefit from any reduction in the bond rate'. Conversely, the antithesis of that proposition is that, if the bond rate is increased the interest rate will go up. Every honourable member knows that there is one aggravating feature that concerns every person in Australia who borrows money to purchase a home, and that is the fact that when they negotiate a building loan they expect it to be repayable at the rate of interest negotiated. If they negotiate the loan at 7 per cent they hate to see that interest rate go up to 8 per cent, then 9 per cent and then 10 per cent. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, the Treasurer - 
-Here he is again, old ocker. 
-Oh, shut him up. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have given the call to the honourable member for Hughes. I would like to hear what he is about to say. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech stated: 
Overall expenditure on programs of direct assistance to Aborigines in 1977-78 is estimated to be about $ 176m compared with $ 1 6 1 m in 1 976-77. 
Then, in a Press statement on 17 August, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  stated: 
Expenditure on Aboriginal programs in 1977-78 would rise by $ 1 5 m or nine per cent to $ 1 76m. 
The Government has once again broken its promises to Aboriginals by reducing expenditure on Aboriginal assistance programs in this year's Budget. The Government has allocated only $ 171m for these programs in this financial year when a total of $178m was allocated last year, that is $153m in the Budget and $25m subsequently. That figure was $13m less than the amount provided in the Hayden Budget in real terms. Expenditure on Aboriginal assistance programs has been slashed by 27 per cent in real terms over the last two years. Substantial cuts in funding for Aboriginal Affairs include: Housing, down by 3.81 per cent in real terms; education, down by 8.9 per cent in real terms; employment, down by 0.1 per cent in real terms; enterprises, down by 10.5 per cent in real terms and legal aid down by 0.9 per cent in real terms. These areas are important in many ways, but perhaps they are most important in providing jobs for Aboriginal people in Australia. These cuts will cause greater hardships and unemployment among Aboriginal people. 
Further, the 1977-78 figures in relation to the adjusted Hayden Budget figures show decreased support for education, health, social security and Aboriginal programs. As a proportion of total Commonwealth Government outlays, spending on Aboriginals has dropped from 0.89 per cent in 1974-75 to 0.66 per cent in 1977-78, that is the lowest proportion since 1972-73. Real per capita expenditure by the Commonwealth on Aboriginals has dropped by 31 per cent, from $909 in 1974-75 to $625 in 1977-78. The proposed 1977-78 Commonwealth expenditure on Aboriginals is the lowest in real terms since 1973-74, and in real per capita terms it is the lowest since 1972-73. Nominal expenditure by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in 1977-78 will be the lowest since 1973-74 and in real terms it will be the lowest since 1972-73. Real per capita expenditure by the Department in 1977-78 will be $440, which is a drop of $6 1 or 12 per cent on the previous year and a fall of $273 or 38 per cent from the 1974-75 peak of $713. That is the lowest real per capita expenditure since 1972-73. 
Expenditure by the Department in 1977-78 will rise by only 2.4 per cent, from $121m to $ 123.9m, compared with an increase of 10.5 per cent in total Government outlays. Of the $ 14.5m overall increase in direct Commonwealth expenditure on Aboriginals, $ 11.6m is allocated to Commonwealth departments other than the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Nominal grants to the States by the Department in 1977-78 for Aboriginal assistance programs will be almost equal to the amount provided in 1973-74, that is about $32m, a drop of 41 per cent in real terms in four years. I mention something about Aboriginal housing because I am anxious to get these figures on the record. Proposed expenditure of $35.3m in 1977-78 by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on Aboriginal housing will be $5.5m less than the amount expended in 1976-77 and 45 per cent less in real terms than the corresponding 1974-75 expenditure, that is a cut of almost one-half in three years. Over the same period grants to the States for Aboriginal housing have been cut by 60 per cent in real terms. I shall now say a word about Aboriginal health. Expenditure by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on Aboriginal health has been cut by 1 1 per cent in real terms over the past three years and expenditure on education has been cut by 12 per cent. 
What I have said is in very sharp contrast to the commitments made on 28 November 1975 in the course of the election campaign. The then spokesman on Aboriginal affairs, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  said, amongst other things: 
Spread the word that there is absolutely no truth in Labor Party rumours about cuts in Aboriginal affairs budget. Under a Liberal-Country Party Government Aborigines will be better not worse off Urge Aborigines to vote LiberalCountry Party on December 13. 
I wanted those figures to go into the record. I wish to add a little more to what I have said about Aboriginal health because I believe that that is an area to which added emphasis needs to be given. Expenditure allocations were cut by $lm in 1976-77, yet the actual expenditure for the year was only $ 18.6m 'compared with the $20.5m allocated for that year. The allocation for 1977-78 is $2 1.7m, which is almost the same amount that was spent in 1975-76, two years previously. 
I wish to give some additional figures in relation to Aboriginal housing. Allocations for Aboriginal housing have been seriously cut from $40.9m in 1976-77 to $35.3m. Theoretically that was because of a desire for greater cost effectiveness. But it represents a decline in cash terms of 11.6 per cent, being a reduction from the $45m allocated in the 1975-76 Budget. That is a decline of 37 per cent in real terms from the allocation in 1975-76. 1 understand that those figures will take some digesting, but it is important that they go on the record. We now see emerging Aboriginal people with discernment. I think there has been a tendency to hoodwink them by means of good public relations activities, whereas in fact Aboriginal living conditions are degenerating in many ways. 
The time made available to honourable members in considering the departmental estimates is very short. One of the matters that concerns all honourable members, 1 suppose, is the level of Aboriginal unemployment throughout Australia I know that it concerns the Minister. There is some argument as to the steps that are being taken, understandably, because some people contend that they are discriminatory. In August 1973, the number of Aborigines registered as unemployed was 3,053; in August 1974, the number was 5,080. Subsequently it has gone up. I will not have time to spell out these figures in detail. In August 1977- these are the latest figures available- the number of Aborigines registered as unemployed was 12,224. We are told that 50 per cent of Aboriginal people throughout Australia are now unemployed. That is a most disastrous situation. I just do not accept the proposition that sufficient is being done about that situation. I do not wish to say anything further about it. I hope that the Minister in his reply will answer those matters I have put to him. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the light of the increasing crises the Fraser Government is facing, the increasingly dictatorial style of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the worsening state of the economy, is there any wonder that disunity and confusion are becoming the order of the day in the ranks of the Government? The list of resignations from the Liberal Party is mounting. On 24 March the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  resigned; a former Minister for the Navy and 
Customs and Excise, and shadow Minister for Social Security, Health, Repatriation and Compensation, and a former Leader of the House. He said: 
I cannot agree with the Government's economic policy- I am concerned with its failure to honour its promise to the private sector, to give it stable and definite guidelines . . . I believe the small private businessman is more confused, more in the dark about the future and less confident than IS months ago. 
He went on: 
I am very concerned with the intransigence of the Prime Minister about the Industrial Relations Bureau and about the lack of consultation between the Government and the trade union movement. It would be cruel and unfair to ask the workers to be the sole bearers of the cost of reducing inflation. 
That is what the honourable member for Hotham said a little while ago. It certainly has application today. Following the resignation of the honourable member for Hotham from the Liberal Party the Prime Minister had to seek the assurance of several other Liberal Members of Parliament in case they might also resign from the Liberal Party. 
-Let me mention the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  because of his disenchantment with the Prime Minister's leadership. The honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  has decided not to contest his seat at the next election because of the Government's failure to honour its election promises. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  a former Minister for Social Security, also resigned because of his opposition to the Government's economic policy. In addition, on 9 September last the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  announced his plan to resign from six parliamentary committees because he said that the Liberal Party had no understanding of the needs of country people. I recall the somewhat prophetic words of a former Prime Minister, the highly regarded  Sir John  Gorton. He said back in 1973 that it would be a disaster if  Mr Fraser  ever led the Liberal Party; that it would mean breaking up the party. The present Prime Minister was so concerned about back bench disenchantment with his leadership that he felt he had to warn Government party members about leaking to the Press discussions which took place in the party room. 
Rebellion is breeding on the back benches over the Fraser Government's plan to close down the Rhodesian Information Centre. No less than 13 government supporters have expressed their concern and doubt about the closure of the office. Quite clearly the Prime Minister no longer has any control over Government supporters in the Senate. He can no longer count on his own party members in the Senate to support his Government. The callous and inhumane attempts of the Fraser Government to abolish the $40 pensioner funeral benefit resulted in Liberal Senators Rae, Jessop, Missen, Townley, Wood and Bonner crossing the Moor, thus rolling the Government's plan. That is recorded history. 
Earlier this year, when the Government's May referendum proposals went to the Senate, 11 Government senators crossed the floor and voted against the proposals.  Senator Martin  resigned from her position as  Deputy  Government Whip in the Senate in protest. In November last a group of 15 Liberal and National Country Party senators planned to move an amendment to the Budget- a virtual vote of no confidence in their Government. On 29 March Senators Rae, Townley, Wood, Walters and Wright voted with the Opposition on the apple and pear subsidy scheme. In March this year the Prime Minister roundly abused Tasmanian Liberals during a blow-up over the level of stabilisation to be given to the apple and pear industry. So bitter was the clash over the apple and pear subsidy scheme that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  threatened to resign and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  was told that he was behaving like a grub and should go back to Tasmania and bury himself in an apple- to use the precise words. That is incredible behaviour. The honourable members for Franklin, Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  and Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  have expressed their opposition to an early election. 
There has been a rapid desertion in the rank and file of the Liberal Party as well. In New South Wales membership of the Party fell by 17,000 this year and in Victoria the membership is down to the lowest level for ten years. In Queensland membership has fallen by 20 per cent. This is at a time when politics is volatile; when other parties, including the Labor Party, are greatly expanding their membership. We can see the disenchantment when the ship is sinking; we know who has the tendency to depart. 
There has been continuing conflict and discussion within the Liberal-National Country Party coalition over changes to the broadcasting legislation and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In the Government party room late last year when the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  asked who could not support the Government's proposed changes to broadcasting one by one members stood up: The honourable members for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and St George  (Mr Neil);  and Senators Missen, Martin, Baume, Young and Hall. Just this week reports have appeared in the newspapers saying that some government back benchers were resisting the Fraser Government's latest changes to radio and television administration. 
Yesterday, when the Fraser Government attempted to ram through the party room its original decision not to pay the unemployment benefit to innocent victims of industrial disputes the party room erupted. We are told it was a most ungainly and unseemly scene. Reports in today's Press- undenied reports, I might saygave us the names. One of the reasons why there was confusion during Question Time today was that the Prime Minister and other leaders on the Government side knew that there would be interrogation about this matter and they were unprepared to be subjected to it. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. What does he see as the first consequence of deregistration of unions, the dismissal of workers involved in the power dispute and the use of non-union labour? Has he considered what the Government's answer should be to any request from Victoria for the use of Commonwealth police or members of the armed forces to maintain peace in the Latrobe Valley? 
-I simply rise for a moment or two to note the fact that for the first time in history we have the Australian flag displayed in the House of Representatives. I do not think the event should go unnoticed. When all is said and done, the Australian flag symbolises in many ways the history of Australia. The flag incorporates the Cross of St Andrew, the Cross of St George and the Cross of St Patrick. Of course, that has a great deal to do with the fact that the early Australians came from what we now call the United Kingdom. These flags have arrived in this chamber somewhat mysteriously. I do not contend for a moment that they are unwelcome but I think it important to note that it is probably an unprecedented innovation in the parliaments of Australia. I am not aware of flags being displayed in any other legislative building in this country. 
I am not sure why they have arrived today. I note that 18 October was St Luke's Day and I note that 24 October- which is four days away- is United Nations Day. It causes me to speculate that there might be some merit in having regard for the fact that there are two other unused corners in this chamber. Whilst we acknowledge our British heritage, through the symbolism of these flags, we could take into account the fact that there are probably two million or so Australians who have come from other parts of the world and that the displaying of the United Nations flag, which incorporates the symbolism of the five continents, could well be appropriate in all the circumstances. As well there are many other factors which are often symbolised by flags. I have not had a chance to check facts concerning the flag of the Red Cross, for example. It is regarded as the international flag of humanity. I recall that Henri Dunant looked down from the hills and saw the battle of Solferino about, I think, 120 years ago. It was in recognition of the mercy he displayed on that occasion that the Swiss flag was reversed to become the international flag of the Red Cross. That flag depicts a red cross on a white background whereas the Swiss flag has a white cross on a red background. 
I do not criticise the display of these flags in this chamber. I am not sure why they are here today. Perhaps they are here today in acknowledgement of the fact that a great Australian has taken his place in the Parliament today- Stewart West, the honourable member for Cunningham. The seat of Cunningham was represented for many years by Rex Connor, one of the greatest Australians, who was greatly concerned at the need for Australians to be deeply involved with the utilisation of their resources. I welcome Stewart here today. Unless we can find some other reason why these flags have been installed we will accept the proposition that it is to recognise the fact that Rex Connor's successor has arrived in this Parliament today. I welcome him very warmly. 
Perhaps we will hear more about the reasons for the presence of the flags. I wonder whether there is an environmental impact statement concerning them. No doubt there are good reasons for their presence. I understand that the House Committee has considered the matter. I think that the flags could be displayed more spectacularly than they are. They could be better presented. I understand that  Mr Speaker  has in mind obtaining a better type of silk flag, properly wired so that they can be more effectively hung. I hope that consideration will be given to putting in another corner an international flag which will inspire the new Australians who come from parts of the world other than the United Kingdom to recognise that here in Australia there is an opportunity for people of all races to fulfil their aspirations. It may also reflect the culture and the heritage that they have brought here from other parts of the world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The honourable member for Hughes really answered his own question. The matter of the flags was proposed, investigated and discussed by the House Committee in consultation with  Mr Speaker.  It was decided that the flags could be hung. They were approved. I understand that further consideration is being given to the flags in this chamber. 
-The matter that was raised by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  concerning human rights interests me because the fact is that the former Attorney-General committed the Government to the establishment of the Human Rights Commission by 1 July. A Bill has been introduced but, of course, not yet debated. It is possible that here again we might have another broken promise. The former Attorney-General who preceded me in this debate had the original intention of involving the States in the preparation of this Human Rights Commission and matters associated with it But it is a fact that the Premier of Queensland scotched this idea at the April Premiers Conference when he told the Prime Minister and, I think, the former AttorneyGeneral, that he would 'not have a bar of the Commission'. Of course, in the light of the current erosion of civil liberties in Queensland one can understand the motivation for the Premier's action. This Human Rights Commission is to be based on the International Covenant on Civil and Policy Rights of 1 966 which was signed by the Labor Government 16 days after taking office in December 1972. As I understand it, the matter has still not been ratified by the present Government. I suppose there are many Australians and many members of Parliament from both sides of the House who are concerned at the breaches of these principles. At least five Articles of the Covenant appear to have been breached by the Queensland Government. Article 2 which relates to discrimination has certainly been breached in my view so far as the treatment of Aboriginals and women are concerned. The Queensland Government stands in breach of Article 19, which states: . . . everyone shall have the right to hold opinions and the right to freedom of expression. 
Similarly, Article 2 1 has been disregarded. That Article provides for the right of peaceful assembly. Article 22 deals with freedom of association and Article 25 deals with the right to universal and equal suffrage. Clearly, the Queensland Government is in breach of that proposal when we have regard to the incredible gerrymander that operates in that State where the government of the day is elected on about 24 per cent of the votes. It is certainly not part of the so-called free world. As I see it, there is a need for human rights to be uniform throughout Australia. There must be power to invoke judicial remedies for breaches. It is clear that this Government puts States rights before human rights. I think it has to be acknowledged that there has been some neglect, some lack of example and lack of leadership on the part of the Fraser Government in bringing die States to the point of meeting the requirements of that international objective. 
I want to say something about the legal aid issue, which has been raised by the honourable member for Kingsford -Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and by the honourable member for Wentworth who preceded me in the debate. As I understand it, the Budget allocation for legal aid in 1977-78 is $ 19.2m, plus an additional $600,000 which was thrown in subsequently as a pre-election announcement and which no doubt is designed to win back some of those private practitioners who rely on government funds to supplement the income they receive from their practice. The allocation is made up of $ 15.3m, plus additional unspecified payments to the States. Those payments are to be made only to the extent that the States are prepared to establish legal aid commissions. There is a degree of option, and the extent to which provision for legal aid will be made, will vary from Sate to State. I believe that is a very unfortunate situation. As is the case with all social welfare programs since 1975, this allocation is reduced in real terms. It is true that the amount of money allocated is greater than it has been previously ' but, in real terms, having regard to inflation, the amount is effectively reduced. Plans for the expansion of the program into country areas and outlying suburbs where such a service is desperately needed have obviously gone down the dram. 
The legal aid commissions which the Government is seeking to impose upon the States are to be dominated by the profession; community groups and representatives of organisations which deal with recipients of legal aid on a daytoday basis are not to be represented. I believe that that is very unfortunate. It is a departure from the principles and the concepts which the former Labor Government initiated. There is a real risk that any legal aid scheme controlled by the profession will concentrate heavily on those areas of legal work which the profession is used to handling, which can provide a quick turnover and which bring in maximum financial rewards. With the support of government nominees, many people in the profession, in my view, will endeavour to avoid law reform and community development work. Attempts to devote resources to environmental, Aboriginal and other minority group problems for litigation, submission and representation at inquiries will continue to be ignored. A case in pomt is the Budget allocation for meeting the cost of public hearings on environmental matters. The allocation to cover the cost of such public hearings has been reduced to $65,000 this year compared with $507,268 last year, a 78 per cent reduction. Much could be said about the cuts in expenditure in that area. 
I believe that any system of legal aid should have funds to devote to law reform and preventative law, through working arrangements with social welfare agencies of the shop front style of legal aid to bridge the gap between those who understand the maze which is the legal system and those whom the system abuses and ignores. For too long the law has been cloistered and the prerogative of the articulate and the better educated. The Australian Legal Aid Office was created to serve the people who need legal aid the most, those who know little about the benefits and rewards which the legal system can confer on those who understand. As a result of the Government's outdated guidelines and restrictive means test, many people who now recognise the benefits of using the legal system are still excluded from doing so. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith made reference to a case in point. I mention another one. It involves a person whose only asset was a home valued at $25,500 and who had less than $25 in the bank. He owned a 1967 Holden and his total income which amounted to $47.10 a week was derived from an invalid pension. He was refused legal aid as his adjusted income exceeded the allowable limit by $3. As bis solicitor pointed out in a letter to the then Attorney-General, such a decision is both incomprehensible and alarming. It raises the question of just who is entitled to legal aid under the management of this Government. 
It is true that legal aid has been sent off in specialised directions and that many people who have ordinary cases of litigation are excluded from receiving it if they are not covered by such provisions as the Family Law Act. So, I believe that the Government has broken a promise in this regard. There are people throughout the country who are waiting for the return of a Labor government so that the principles associated with a decent legal aid system can be reinstituted. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) What was the staff establishment of the Department of Veterans' Affairs, including those areas since transferred to the Department, as at 13 December 1975, 30 June 1976 and 30 April 1977. 
What positions are presently unfilled within the Department. 
Of the present vacancies, how long is it since they were last filled in a non-acting capacity. 
What positions within the Department have been abolished or amalgamated since 13 December 1975. 
How many positions have not been filled as a result of natural wastage. 
-by leave-I want to associate the Opposition with the report of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I endorse what the  Chairman  of the Committee has said when he indicated that the members of the Committee are unanimous in the view that the alcohol problem among the Aboriginal people is of such a serious nature that no member of the Committee who returns to the next parliament would be prepared to see inaction on the recommendations that have been made. The Committee, having heard from some 205 witnesses, having received 139 submissions, most of them extremely informed and expert, haying sat for some 20 days and having visited some 65 communities in very remote parts of Australia where the alcohol problem of Aboriginals is in evidence, regards the problem as being extremely serious and I sincerely hope that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs especially will treat the report with the importance that it deserves and commence immediately to give effect to the recommendations. 
Let me say in conclusion that if something of a dramatic nature is not undertaken the seriousness of the alcohol problem among Aboriginal people can easily reach genocidal proportions and this indigenous people, its cultures and traditions would stand in danger of total destruction. 
I congratulate the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  on advancing this defence Service housing project. It was one with which I was very deeply involved for several years from 1972. I had it close to the stage of implementation when I transferred to another portfolio. It certainly concerns the welfare of ex-servicemen. I am a bit surprised that it has taken the Minister so long to bring the project to this point so that the Parliament can give its approval. Nevertheless I am pleased that, although belatedly, what I had almost ready has at last occurred. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 6.3 to 8 p.m. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill; yet it is intrigued to know, as many people will be intrigued to know, why the Bill is necessary. The Bill authorises the appointment of one person to hold or to act in the offices of Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade and Secretary to the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. I am told that the announcement was made on 17 July that the Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade,  Mr McKay,  was to be Acting Secretary to the newly created Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. The instrument of appointment was published in the  Gazette  on 17 July 1977. On 15 September there was shown under the heading 'Appointments and acting appointments as Permanent Head' what appeared to be an instrument of appointment of  Mr McKay  to the office of Secretary to the new 
Department. On the following day a correction was made which stated that no such appointment had been made. 
The Bill provides that a person who is Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade may also be appointed to act as Secretary to the new Department without affecting his tenure in the Department of Overseas Trade. In essence, this apparently means that there is a  Mr McKay  who is Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade, and he is to hold the same position in the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. Legislation is necessary because there has been some doubt over the legality of one person being the permanent head of two departments. In other words, in this legislation we are correcting some ambiguity, some anomaly, possibly some kind of shemozzle. I am told that the GovernorGeneral intervened and questioned the legality of the dual appointment. I also am told that the Public Service Board has been concerned about the dual appointment ever since it was announced. I recall, and there are other people in the House now who will recall, that there have been precedents for this kind of situation. Apparently, a  Mr Fred  Green was at one time permanent head of both the Department of the Army and the Department of Air for a short time. That was back in the late 1 960s. 
The appointment of the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  and the establishment of his Department have been widely criticised. Many people in this Parliament believe, and certainly some spokesmen in the media take the same view, that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  should have lost his portfolio and the new Minister should have had the prerogative of embracing the entire area of trade. There seems to be a very great possibility that we are moving into an area of overlapping which could be disastrous not only from the standpoint of ministerial obligations and responsibility but also from the standpoint of the duplication of permanent heads. Even if there were to be separate permanent heads there would be a number of responsibilities and obligations which would have a common denominator. Also, in the dimension of the entire bureaucracy, we could find ourselves getting into overlapping situations. 
The New Minister for Special Trade Negotiations was supposed to deal exclusively with the European Economic Community. Already there seems to be confrontation at the ministerial level about the overlapping that is occurring. I am concerned that it might occur also at the level of the Department, especially at the level of departmental head. The Minister for Special Trade Negotiations was described originally as Minister for Special Trade Negotiations with the European Economic Community. I am told that the Minister does not see his brief as being confined to the EEC. He has thrown off the title and already is endeavouring to spread out. This could have very serious implications and I believe that it is important to air the misgivings that are very much in evidence at present. There is obviously room for conflict between the Minister for Overseas Trade and the new Minister who has responsiblity for trade matters relating to the EEC. There does not appear at any level to be sufficient clarification or definition of responsibility for the Ministers, the permanent heads or the departments. 
The creation of that ministry caused this Government to have the same number of departments as the Australian Labor Party Government had in 1975-76.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would be able to recall that Government was criticised consistently for having too many ministries. With the creation of this new ministry, it is important for us to evaluate whether it is a new ministry with new merit and with a capacity to contribute anything worth while. 
I want to make some reference to the public attitude that has been expressed about this matter in the media. I refer, firstly, to the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 8 July. I read in that paper: 
Creation of a Ministry of Special Trade Negotiator is puzzling for more reasons than this. 
The EEC is far from Australia's major trading partner. 
The Community is in fact declining as a market for Australian products, despite the British entry. 
It goes on to give some figures in support of that contention. It states: 
Australian exports to the EEC have fallen from 20.3 per cent of our total exports in 1972-73 to 14.8 per cent last financial year. 
In respect of imports it says: 
Imports from the EEC have been steady at around last year's figure of 27 percent of total imports. 
It goes on: 
If a Department and a Minister for Special Trade Negotiations is required it must surely be for Japan, which last year took 36.6 per cent of our exports. 
I do not know whether or not the newly appointed Permanent Head will concern himself with Japan, or whether or not the Minister will concern himself with Japan. Clearly, there is this grey area of ambiguity. I would not be surprised if conflict emerges. Worse still, I Minister, it is likely that we will have overlapping which will cost the taxpayer a great deal and add to bureaucracy. I will quote further from that  Australian Financial Review  editorial of 18 July. It says: 
The new Department of Special Trade Negotiator will no doubt shortly acquire all the trappings and staff of other government departments. 
The new department is an obvious competitor with Doug Anthony's Overseas Trade National Department. 
In fact, between the Department of Overseas Trade and Australia's Special Ambassador to the EEC, one would have thought that any trade problem could be adequately dealt with. 
It continues: 
If the Overseas Trade Department was not doing its job it should have been hauled into line. 
It says further: 

 Mr Fraser has chosen instead, with little justification, to create a new department and one which will require the minister to spend a fair amount of time travelling around Europe. 
I think this is fair conjecture. What is implied in this whole proposition, the matter now before the House concerning the clarification of a problem concerning the appointment of a new department head, is the establishment of a new department. We should be asking ourselves: Was it necessary at all? Was there some inadequacy in respect of the activities of the existing Minister for Overseas Trade and his Department? If so, probably there was a need to get rid of the Minister. But was there any justification to set up yet another ministry, yet another permanent head, yet another bureaucracy? Never in Australia's history has there been a dual role, have there been people going off with separate responsibility for separate parts of our potential export market areas. We are creating a precedent and I believe it is beholden on this Parliament to consider seriously whether this has been made necessary by the new ramifications concerned with the establishment of the European Economic Community on the one hand or whether on the other hand, it has been made necessary by virtue of the inadequacy of the Minister who prevails at the present time. The article in the  Australian Financial Review  continues: 
If the Overseas Trade Department and  Mr Anthony  have not fallen down on their job (and  Mr Fraser  certainly does not suggest this) the kindest interpretation that can be placed on yesterday's aberration from Canberra is that  Mr Fraser  has chosen to reward the man regarded as the golden-haired boy of his ministry. 
I think the last part is an overstatement. He is the declining-haired boy in many respects. Nevertheless, the point that is made is in sharp relief. The  Australian Financial Review  was not on its own in this respect. The  Australian  had something to say about the matter as well on 19 July. It said: . . . there  will  have to be an increase in the Public Service structure to support the new department. It would have made far more sense to have given  Mr Howard  Overseas Trade, leaving the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  the important Department of National Resources, which covers mineral, water and energy resources. 
It continues along that line. I think it makes a very significant point in that regard. The article goes on: . . . it is a sign of the erosion of Country Party influence and the strength of  Mr Fraser  that a Liberal minister has taken over such an important area of overseas trade as that with the EEC. It would not have happened in  Sir John  McEwen's day 
All honourable members know that to be the fact of the situation. There is all this by-play between coalition members. The Opposition could make political capital out of that if it was so inclined but that is not the point. The question of trade is at stake. It is not a matter of making a political point about whether the ministry is duplicated, whether the heads of department are duplicated or whether the bureaucracy is duplicated. Clearly what is at stake is whether or not Australia is going to have an efficient trade department; whether- if we go right back to the grassroots level- we are going to have the chimneys smoking, although that is antienvironmental; whether we are going to have the production in this country and work opportunities for the masses of unemployed people who are now reaching unprecedented proportions in Australia. Why should the unemployed or the trade prospects of Australia be put at risk and jettisoned because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as the head of the Liberal Party, wants to make some point against the leader of the National Country Pary and cut him down to size by getting a new Minister to take over this little side-swipe of the whole operation. I think that is a disastrous situation. I do not intend to labour this point but I refer to the attitude expressed by the  Age,  one of the most reputable newspapers in this country. The  Age  of 19 July said: 

 Mr Howard does not appear to have been demoted by his transfer to a highly specialised and less influential post. 
I do not think he has been demoted but he may be if it does not work, and it might not work. It depends on what kind of sabotage or lack of cooperation might be in evidence. The article continues: 
If anyone has been eclipsed it is the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Overseas Trade Minister,  Mr Anthony.  It may be that his health has not been  sufficiency  restored to allow him to lead arduous trade negotiations in Europe. If so a simpler solution would have been to appoint  Mr Howard  as Minister for Overseas Trade (with instructions to give special attention to Europe) and leave  Mr Anthony  with his increasingly significant other portfolio, National Resources. 
I believe that the  Age  has made a good point. Either the Minister for Overseas Trade, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, can cope adequately with his Department or he cannot. That appears to be the point of the whole exercise. Obviously the Prime Minister would not have appointed somebody else to hive off a part of the operation if the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Overseas Trade, had been capable of doing it. A simpler solution would have been to have found a man who was capable of doing the whole operation. Always in Australia 's history we have had such a man. We have not had one with a dual role since 190 1. For the first time it seems that we have a Minister for Overseas Trade who cannot operate without a secondary subjective, probably sycophant, Minister and heaven knows what his role is in the whole of the arrangement. Never before have we had a situation in which we have had to have a second departmental head, a second bureaucracy. Maybe sickness is involved. I hope that the  Deputy  Prime Minister who is the Minister for Overseas Trade, is not sick, but I believe this development, the subject of this legislation, is a reflection. If it is not a reflection on the incapacity of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who is the Minister for Overseas Trade, if it is not a clear indication that he cannot do his job, it must mean that the Prime Minister wants to cut the National Country Party down to size. It is not good for a coalition government to have division which Will result in productivity being impaired, employment opportunities being undermined and so on. 
In today's  Australian Financial Review  there are some comments about  Mr Howard's  role in the entire situation. The comments are to the effect that  Mr Howard  might not be going to be that crash hot anyway, that he has come back to Australia and made some statements about what is happening within the European Common Market and all that kind of thing, but it does not seem to be working out too well and he might be at risk. We might even be putting at risk a new departmental head whose position we are clarifying tonight by this legislation. There are a lot of things being put at risk at the present time. The  Australian Financial Review  had this to say: 

 Mr Howard sought to put a brave face on the outcome of his talks, though his failure to take home any substantive concessions from Europe can hardly help his Government in its forthcoming election campaign. . He said that he had agreed in principle with the commission to hold another round of ministerial level trade talks in Brussels early next year. 
But even this attempt to inject a ray of hope into the outlook was deflated by  Mr Loeff  - 
I will tell honourable members in a moment who  Mr Loeff is-  who said that he 'knew nothing' of arrangements for such a meeting. 
So  Mr Howard-that  is the name that is used in this article,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  has come back to Australia saying: 'I have not done too well yet fellows, but there is a new prospect looming up'. But there is that  Mr Loeff  saying: 'I do not know of any prospects'. 
-I am going to tell you; just be patient.  Mr Loeff is  saying: 'I do not know of any prospects at all. I do not know of any new round of talks at all'. That newspaper article reads: 

 Mr Josephus Loeff, the senior commission official who represented Brussels in the recent high level talks with a visiting Australian delegation, said that the EEC . . . 
I have identified the man and that is what the honourable member wanted me to do. I am only making the point that this second-row Minister has come back with all the trappings of a ministry, a departmental head and a bureaucracy, and has said: 'I have not done too well but we are going back'. But  Mr Loeff  who is obviously very significant in the whole of the scenario is saying: 'We do not know of any second round of talks at all'. Let me turn to the  Canberra Times  of 19 July. 
-What do you think about it yourself? 
I think it is a reputable newspaper. If the Liberal Party members do not believe this let them stand up and say so. I believe it is one of the best newspapers in Australia They have asked me. I am telling them my view. It is a good newspaper. It is a newspaper with national characteristics. It reports this Parliament as effectively as any newspaper in Australia 
-You tell me whether you believe what it says in its editorial of 19 July m respect of this matter. It says: 
The immediate objective of the appointment of  Mr Howard  as Minister for Special Trade Negotiations and of the proposed trade conference later this year between Australia and the Community seems to centre on the sale of 
Australian uranium as a lever to obtain access to the Community for Australian agricultural produce, notably meat, dairy products and sugar. 
It is laudable enough to use a lever in our desire to export primary products. The article goes on to say: 

 Mr Fraser's approach is of course seen by the Europeans as a direct attack on the Community's common agricultural policy. The ploy of a pointed trade-off, which  Mr Fraser  is apparently determined to pull off, is seen in some quarters as, in addition, a politicalisation of the trade in uranium at a time when the United States  President, Mr Carter,  is using the same approach to retard the development of the fastbreeder reactor and, through this, the spread of military nuclear technology. 
-I know you do not attribute much importance or significance to it but here is this newspaper contending - 
-Let me put it to you to judge what you think it is worth. It is simply saying that the Government is using this whole exercise, running this whole gambit, this whole gimmick of appointing a special ministerial trade negotiator, for the purpose of running at variance with the  President  of the United States who is trying to quieten down the tendency to spread military nuclear technology. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I think the honourable member is making a few most interesting comments and I would congratulate him possibly on some of the matters that he has been able to refer to in this speech. I also congratulate him because every now and then I have heard him use the words 'Permanent Head' and 'dual appointment' but I think there are some comments that the honourable member has made that are getting just a little bit away from the Bill that is before the House. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I would not be surprised if what you have said is pretty close to the mark. I think you have been fairly indulgent, and quite frankly I have made most of the points that I wanted to make and I think I have made them tellingly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost of ( a ) converting 2 vehicles to 'Protected Vehicles for VIPs' status and (b) purchasing 2 protected vehicles from abroad. 
What model vehicles (a) are involved in the Conversion and (b) have been ordered abroad, and who are the suppliers. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
What expenditure has been incurred, and what repayments have been made, under the Defence Service Homes Act since its inception. 
What is the present waiting period for loans. 
What is the average loan. 
What is the average period of repayment. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the report on the Bankruptcy Act tabled in the House last Friday. I ask: Has the number of bankruptcies increased by 16 per cent to the highest level for five years? Does the amount owing to unsecured creditors represent the largest indebtedness ever recorded in the history of this country? I ask the Prime Minister whether he is concerned with this dramatic sequel to his Government's economic policies? 
I certainly will not take up too much time. As has been acknowledged, this Bill is an interesting one. It opens an area of contemplation that is very important to Australia and the people of this country. I want to summarise the financial aspects of the Government's approach to environmental matters. Although I do not regard the Bill as a major controversy for the House, I must say that quite consistent with the inability of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to sustain expenditure in other areas for which he is responsible, there has been this heavy decline in funding of environmental activities. I refer especially to special grants which have been cut back very significantly indeed. The grants for conservation organisations in the last three budgets have been $450,000, $391,500 and $300,000. In three years they have come down from $450,000 to $300,000. 1 am told that there have been no curtailments at all to grants in aid generally if they apply to boy scouts, girl guides or surf life saving clubs. The curtailment in grants to conservation organisations has been of very serious proportions. 
I refer now to the grants to the environmental centres. The Labor Government of course made available direct grants, not matching grants. In recent times this Government has introduced the principle of matching grants- a $2 for $ 1 subsidy arrangement for 1976, and the $1 for $1 subsidy arrangement for 1977. We are told that some centres will be closing as a result of this arrangement. One can imagine the mining people and those industrial people with vandalistic tendencies rubbing their hands together with glee when the policemen- the people who alert the country and the governments to environmental destructionare put out of business. I think that is a very sad thing to happen. 
Let me mention briefly the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. I am told that no inquiry has been conducted under that Act since 1975. Of course there were issues which could have justified inquiries- the Concorde coming to Australia, the wood chip industry on the South Coast of New South Wales, the nuclear powered warship or submarine coining to Australian waters and the Omega base in Victoria. None of these matters has been the subject of any inquiry under that Act. The Environmental impact allocation for public hearings is down from $694,300 in 1975-76, to $507,268 in 1976-77, to $65,000 in 1977-78. That is a drop of $629,000 in three years. That is in regard to environmental impact statements. I know that we were promised an inquiry in respect of the Concorde aircraft, but the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  apparently took unilateral action. 
He made bis own decision. The aircraft came flying in. The Act was totally disregarded. The Government promised in its election policy on environment and conservation a public inquiry on the wood chip industry. That promise has been dishonoured. 
The air pollution monitoring program has been cut from $275,000 in 1975-76 to $75,000 in 1977-78. 1 think a matter of concern is that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has allowed his Department to be whittled away. The staff ceilings have affected the environmental area quite considerably. We hope that the next Minister responsible for these matters will fight and will be more successful in trying to maintain adequate staff for the purpose. I probably should pack up at that point. I am being very co-operative because of the time restraint, as I understand it. 
I think a lot more could be done about marine pollution. I would have liked to have said quite a bit about this subject. It is a very serious matter. In New South Wales waters alone there have been more than 40 incidents involving oil pollution from ships in the last 12 months. There has been no reduction in the number of spillages in the last 12 months. It is as plain as a pikestaff that greater resources and greater effort must be put into this. I am grateful for the opportunity to have spoken. I feel tempted to say a little more. I am getting the nod from the Government Whip that I have had a fair crack of the whip so I am prepared to leave it at that and convey my ap- preciation for the attentive audience that I have ad. I wish all my parliamentary opponents a vigorous fight in the forthcoming election. I can assure them that when the Labor Government is elected we will certainly be giving to environmental matters the kind of attention that they would like to see given. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that research on solar energy is quite uncoordinated in Australia and that most research funds go to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organization which is more oriented to the scientific rather than development and marketing aspects. 
Is it also a fact that Australia is rapidly falling behind other countries such as Israel, Japan and the United States of America in the application of solar energy. 
Is there an urgent need to bring solar energy into a sharper and more objective perspective and is the Government contemplating any action towards that end. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
Which of the recommendations of the New South Wales Migrant Task Force Committee, headed by the honourable member for Prospect, presented to the then Minister for Immigration in June 1973, have been implemented and on what dates were the recommendations acted upon. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
Was the estimated cost of 2 guided missile frigates with spares support $330m as at January 1 976. 
Did this price escalate to $4 14m at January 1977 prices. 
If so, how much of this increase can be attributed to (a) devaluation in exchange fluctuations and (b) other reasons. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
When may I expect the information regarding the visit of Government Senators to  Mr Peter  Mingrove former Australasian Sales Manager for the Lockheed Corporation, in Los Angeles in 1976, which his predecessor pledged to forward to me on 5 May 1977. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 3 November 1977: 
Has the Treasurer informed him of the full nature of his financial interests and responsibilities as required by the Prime Minister in his statement to the House on 16 August 1977  (Hansard,  page 9); if so, do the Treasurer's disclosed interests include (a) the Treasurer or any of his family companies having held land in conjunction with either  Mr Colin  Cooke,  Mr Paul  Day or  Mr Peter  Leake at (i) Summerville or Mornington, (ii) in the Westernport region or (iii) on the Mornington Peninsula, Victoria or (b) the Treasurer or any of his family companies having any joint interest in lands with  Mrs R.Hamer. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
Has he directed Australia Post to use $28m of the accumulated 1975-76 and 1976-77 surplus to repay part of the funds provided by the Commonwealth for capital expenditure prior to vesting day. 
When Telecom and Australia Post were created was it intended that they commence operations with a 'clean sheet' irrespective of past deficits. 
How will the Government use the $28m recouped from Australia Post 
Why has the Government sought this sum rather than allow Australia Post to use it in the maintenance of stable prices. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
When will the Attorney-General be in a position to provide the information promised by his predecessor on 5 May 1977 regarding the statutory declaration of  Mr Geoffrey  Nicoll relating to Lockheed Corporation Sales in Australia and the names of the Government Senators who called on the senior Australasian Sales Manager for Lockheed,  Mr Peter  Mingrove, in Los Angeles, in 1976. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
As a result of the Government's decision in November 1976 to devalue the Australian dollar and also taking into account subsequent fluctuations in the exchange rate, what were the additional costs, in November 1976 prices, borne by the Defence vote for procurement of items of capital equipment for which contracts had been let to overseas suppliers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 19 October 1977. 
1 ) How much was spent by the Department of Education on advertising and services during the period (a) 11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d)l July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the Electoral Divisions of (a) St George, (b) Cook, (c) Barton, (d) Macarthur and (e) Parramatta at the end of (i) August 1975, (ii) August 1976 and (iii) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, (c) under 2 1 years of age and (d) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
In which overseas Australian posts is one of the 3 senior positions held by a woman  (Hansard,  16 November 1976, page 2746). 
-As the seconder of the nomination of  Mr Lucock  I would like to say a few words.  Mr Lucock  came to this Parliament not four years ago but 26 years ago and for nearly 22 of those years he has been one of the occupants of the chair. All of us recall successive Speakers paying tribute to him.  Mr Lucock  in fact filled the role of Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from 1956 to 1960. Since then he has been  Chairman  of Committees, Acting  Speaker  or  Deputy Speaker. 
No one has ever regarded the honourable gentleman as a great debater.  His  forte has been his knowledge of the processes of Parliament. He is a distinguished parliamentarian in many ways. He is one of the most travelled parliamentarians. He has attended Commonwealth parliamentary conferences in Kingston, Kuala Lumpur and Sri Lanka. He has also been a member of the Australian delegation to the United Nations. He is a widely experienced member of Parliament and was created a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire in June 1971 in recognition of his distinguished services to this Parliament.  His  is an ex-serviceman who during the Second World War served for five months in Rhodesia as a member of the Royal Australian Air Force. 
It is regrettable that, despite the election night call by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for consensus and a new spirit of unity, we find now that the National Country Party has drawn out the long knives and that strife and dissension are the order of the day. I think it would be regrettable if members of this House were deprived of the opportunity to register their appreciation by way of a positive vote for  Mr Lucock.  I would be very surprised if those members of his own party who have long sung his praises and who have always been anxious to have him in their electorates would deny him the support that he needs on this occasion. We uphold his candidature on this occasion knowing, of course, that whilst he is often pontifical he is always principled in his rulings. I am sure that his impartiality is the reason why most honourable members will support him today. I believe that it is because of bis impartiality that some members of the National Country Party want to deprive him of the opportunity to continue his distinguished service to the House of Representatives. I strongly advocate that the virtues and qualities so long displayed by  Mr Lucock  should attract the support of honourable members today. 
Regret owing to illness of  Mrs Lucock  not in attendance. If Standing Orders permit am prepared to accept nomination if made for position of  Chairman  of Committees. 
In fact, I read the telegram to explain  Mr Lucock  's absence, not to explain the acceptance of the motion that he be appointed  Chairman  of Committees. Undoubtedly, the acceptance of the motion was permitted by the Standing Orders. 

 -Mr Speaker, I take this early opportunity while you are in the chair to congratulate you on your reelection as  Speaker.  I look forward to the spirit of impartiality characterising your period in that office. I would like also to congratulate the newly elected  Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar),  and those honourable members from this side of the House who have made their maiden speeches. The calibre of the incoming parliamentarians is very high. I acknowledge that that happens to be the case in respect of honourable members on both sides of the House. As the parliamentary Whip for the Australian Labor Party I, of course, have a special regard and excitement for the intake on this side of the House, the great replenishment, the resurgence of enthusiasm and idealism which is characterised by the very high calibre of honourable members who have joined us here. Of course, we have the honourable member for Capricornia,  Dr Everingham,  back after a short sabbatical leave. He had served 8 years in the Parliament to 1975. Then, of course, we have  Mr Humphreys,  the honourable member for Griffith, who shortly will make his maiden speech.  Mr Humphreys  is a successful businessman and he has been a Labor activist in Queensland for many years.  Mr John  Brown, the new honourable member for Parramatta, will also be making his maiden speech shortly.  Mr Brown  is a company director and is well known in Labor Party circles. He was an alderman in the local government authority at Parramatta. We have already heard from  Mr Brian  Howe, the honourable member for Batman. He holds the degree of Master of Arts and was a lecturer in sociology. He has already demonstrated his great qualities. We have also heard from  Mr Barry  Jones, the honourable member for Lalor, a very distinguished academic who holds Master of Arts and Bachelor of Laws degrees. He is a former State member of Parliament, having served in that capacity since 1972. 
Soon after dinner tonight we will hear a speech from  Mr Clyde  Holding, the new honourable member for Melbourne Ports, who was the member of the Legislative Assembly for Richmond since 1962 and a State leader of the Labor Party from 1967 to 1977 when he resigned.  Dr Neil  Blewett, the new honourable member for Bonython, is a former Rhodes scholar and a very accomplished academic. He also shall be speaking tonight. Earlier this afternoon we heard a speech from  Mr John  Dawkins, who is now the honourable member for Fremantle. The honourable member held the seat of Tangney from 1 974 to 1 975 during which time he was the youngest member of the Parliament. Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for allowing me to make those introductory and laudatory remarks of my colleagues. I appreciate your indulgence. 
I would now like to refer to the GovernorGeneral 's Speech. The Governor-General outlined the Government's legislative intentions for the next 3 years. He made special reference to two top priorities that the Government holds. He said: 
My Government's priorities are clear. They are: 
To build on the progress we have made in the last two years, defeat inflation and unemployment, and restore full economic health to our country. 
To promote vigorously the development of Australia's resources and enlarge our external trade. 
I think it is important to analyse the so-called progress of the Fraser Government since we now have this threat of a repeat performance. I contend, and I want to substantiate the view, that the Government's economic performance since it took office in 1 975 has been disastrous. 
First I want to refer briefly to unemployment. Nobody can say that the Government's performance in respect of sustaining a high level of employment has been satisfactory. In fact the number of people registered as being unemployed has risen to 445,000 or 7.2 per cent of the work force, a rise of 163,500 over the number of registered unemployed as at December 1975. That figure stands, of course, after the Government has ruthlessly pursued the unemployed around the countryside in its desperate bid to get the numbers down by fair means or foul, by causing the unemployment benefit to be paid in arrears and by taking people off the registered list on the ground that they have not made sufficient endeavour to secure employment by themselves. But there it is- a rise of 163,500 over the number in December 1975. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  put it the other day, the real number of unemployed is more like 600,000 to 700,000 since there are many who are demoralised and deterred from applying for the unemployment benefit. People naturally lose their motivation after going from job to job. I suppose we would be absolutely horrified if we saw the real figures. 
The number of people described by the Australian Bureau of Statistics as keeping house or as being voluntarily inactive has increased by 253,000 in the last two years. This contrasts with the situation under the Labor Government when there was an enormous intake of females into the work force and work opportunities were facilitated for them. Many of these people have been driven back, against their will, into the kitchen and, of course, they are being denied the fulfilment to which they are entitled. 
If one looks at the Government's disastrous performance in the housing area one is in for yet another shock. The number of new dwellings commenced in the December quarter dropped 19 per cent in seasonally adjusted terms when compared with the December 1976 quarter. This represented 7,300 fewer houses. On a year by year comparison ending December there has been a drop of 10 per cent from the year 1976. Bad enough as that is, what worries all diligent and conscientious honourable members who are concerned about the housing needs of the Australian community is the fact that there are no initiatives in sight under the Fraser administration to redress this highly unsatisfactory situation. Only today I received a deputation from a pensioner organisation contending that it is the Government's intention not to renew the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act and to cut funding under the Aged Persons Homes Act. Of course, we all know that in the lifetime of this Government there already has been a reduction in the level of subsidies for such programs- from four to one down to two for one. The Government's disastrous record in the field of housing seems to be one of continual decline, with no sign of any new initiative or any new governmental inputs. 
I now turn to the car industry. We are told that this Government will continue its economic performance. I am sure that the people who are employed in the car industry and those who are entrepreneurial in the car industry are hoping for a better performance than the Government has been able to produce up until now. The leaders of the industry are throwing up their hands in despair. There has been a mammoth drop in car sales in Australia. General Motors-Holden's Ltd has announced a purported loss of $4.2m. Chrysler Australia Ltd has announced a purported loss of $27. 8m, a loss of $25m more than last year. Chrysler's  chairman, Mr T.  J. Anderson, was quoted in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 25th of this month as saying that the figuresthat is the drop of 7.3 per cent in total registrations, and the number of registrations was the lowest since 1973- have resulted from 'one of the worst years ever experienced by the Australian automotive industry'. Is there anybody on the other side of the House who can point positively to new Government attitudes which might change this regrettable situation or are the people engaged in the industry just to wait patiently until the day when the axe falls and massive retrenchments take place? January registrations, seasonally adjusted, stand at 38,478 compared with December registrations of 46,710. Registrations are running at about 100,000 below the forecast market objective of 570,000 for the 1978 calendar year. 
Figures revealed in today's Melbourne  Age  point to a massive downturn which, if interpreted into annual projections for 1978, shows a great shortfall of 100,000 less than what the industry hoped to achieve. I know that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles),  who is in the chair and who is a South Australian, would be especially concerned about that situation as so many people in that State have a great dependency on the motor car industry and have little else to go back to when government mismanagement brings about such a disastrous situation. Surely the Government must be wondering whether the attack on the purchasing power of this community might be resulting in a fall in the production of motor cars. 
I turn now to a more general area- the area of business. Of course, one has to distinguish a little in this regard because some of the large corporations, multinationals and the like that are favoured by this Government are doing very well in the current situation and have always done well under the Fraser Government. There is no doubt about that. Nobody would complain about the achievements of the Utah company, for example, with its record profits and its repatriation of dividends overseas. My colleague the honourable member for Cunningham knows the figure for that. 
-The amount of $ 126m has been repatriated overseas. That would be unbelievable in any comparable country in the world. That company is doing very well and it will go on doing very well. But there is a different story to tell as far as the small industries are concerned. In the last year for which statistics have been compiled- 1976-77- there were 1,270 business bankruptcies and 926 non-business bankruptcies, giving a total of 2,196- more than the previous year's total. Heaven knows what that represents in lost investment and in dashed careers, fallen hopes and personal disasters for the employees who become victims of the overall economic mismanagement which characterises the Fraser Government's administration. 
I turn to the subject of devaluation. In November 1976 there was a mammoth devaluation of per cent. Notwithstanding that Australia has not improved its economic performance at all. The Australian dollar remains under seige. The Government has launched a mammoth foreign loan program to shore-up the dollar. It has done so not to buy back the farm, which the former Labor Government sought to do by way of loan negotiations, but simply to shore-up the dollar to enable us to retain our selfrespect in the international economic world. The indications are that the Government will allow the value of the dollar, which is presently declining, to continue to decline under the new triumvirate fixing process. If one looks at our reserves one will note that there continues to be a sharp decline in Australia's foreign revenue assets. Notwithstanding the revaluations of our gold reserves and the mammoth loan program entered into by this Government the official reserve assets have dropped by approximately $ 1,000m since January 1977. More importantly, Australia now has in reserves only enough to cover three months of imports. We are virtually living hand to mouth. 
Let us compare the present situation with that which prevailed in previous years. In June 1973 Australia's reserves covered 10 months of imports. In July 1975 Australia's reserves covered 5 to months of imports. In 1976-77 the balance on current account was minus $ 1,866m. Of course, that is brought about by the fact that the invisibles turn the credit into a deficit. The Fraser Government has produced a shocking and sorry overall performance. Yet we have the dire threat, the intimation, contained in the Governor-General's Speech that the Government will go on repeating this economic performance. When the people of Australia come to understand the facts, and come to understand the products of this continuing trend they must really come to be alarmed. 
The living standards of most Australians have dropped during the Fraser Government's administration. Real wages are down because less than full wage indexation is given to workers. Contrary to the Prime Minister's express promise to maintain wage indexation, he argues against it at every opportunity and sends the legal luminaries into the courts towards that end. Real wages are down because the Government has transferred the cost of health, welfare and other traditional public expenditure programs to the individual. The capacity to pay principle is being eroded. No longer can we expect the rich to pay more than the poor in many of these areas. It is still the case with defence. No doubt it is still the case with education. But when we come to matters like health services we find this diminution of the capacity to pay principle and all must pay equally whether they are rich or poor. That, of course, favours the people who sent to this Parliament those who sit on the benches on the other side of this chamber. 
Real wages are down and living standards have been reduced by the cutting of funds in real terms for community programs- for health and welfare, transport, road, sewerage, housing, migrant services, education programs and the like. Of course that is the case. Living standards fall when the Fraser Government assaults and makes inroads into the corporate care principle. When one ceases to be one's brother's keeper and when one turns people back on to their own resources it results in a massive onslaught on and a negating of the standard of living of people who have to meet these needs from their own resources. Real wages are down. Country people are particularly disadvantaged. For the last three successive quarters- June, September and December- the publication of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics called  Trends  has recalculated downwards the projected drop of real income per farm. In the June 1977 issue, based on an inflation rate of 10 per cent, real income per farm for the year was calculated to fall by 14 per cent. By September 1 977, using the same rate of inflation, real income per farm was projected to fall by 16 per cent. The latest figures- the ones for December 1977- calculated on a rate of inflation of 9 per cent that real income per farm would fall by a mammoth 19 per cent. That drop, of course, is on top of the previous bad year for farmers. So country people have received nothing but pious words from a government that is more anxious to represent the large mining interests than the traditional agricultural interests of Australia. 
The Governor-General has conveyed a frightening expectation to the Australian people by saying that the Fraser Government is to continue the same economic policies. Greater hardship will result. Unemployment will be the order of the day for a larger number of people. There is no doubt that it will not be long before the people will rue the day that they ever fell for the pious platitudes of Fraser on the hustings. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Do retrenchments in the southern New South Wales coal fields reflect both the fall in steel production and the cost advantages enjoyed by Queensland open cut mines over New South Wales underground mines? Will consideration be given to the introduction of a price equalisation scheme and, if necessary, the use of export powers to sustain employment and to maximise the return on the enormous investment in New South Wales underground coal mines? 
-by leave-I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to the South Pacific. A limited number of copies of the report is available from the Table Office. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact, as reported in the media, that the decision taken to seek fresh tenders for a replacement computer for the Australian Bureau of Statistics was taken by the Prime Minister alone? Was the decision to cancel existing tenders in February of this year also taken by the Prime Minister alone? When was Cabinet informed of the Prime Minister's action? 
I think it is appropriate that I should speak after the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  who was the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in the last Parliament, as I was the  Deputy Chairman  of that Committee. I do not find myself at variance with anything that the honourable member said. I am glad that he paid tribute to the contributions made to the Committee by former Ministers. It is a unique Committee in that it actually had amongst its membership in the last Parliament three former Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs. 
While I am dealing with tributes I should mention that the calibre of the secretariat of the CommitteeMr Clive Boorman and his staff- left nothing to be desired. Without putting it in the context of that group of staff members, I make the point that it seems to me that there is something seriously wrong with the system when we recognise the extent to which parliamentarians who are sent to such remote parts of Australia as Katherine, Alice Springs, Darwin and the like will incur additional expenses there whereas when we send the secretariat of such committees to these places we provide them with a much lower rate of remuneration to cover the expenses they incur. It is absurd that members of committees should have their expenses covered to the extent that they do and the members of the secretariat are out of pocket. That situation applies not only to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs but also to many other committees that serve the Parliament. I am saying a word here on behalf of the secretariat staff. I sincerely hope that this matter will receive consideration. 
Equally anomalous, of course, is the fact that when such a committee travels long distances in aeroplanes- it is not at all infrequent for such committees to go to the Northern Territory and places like that- the members of Parliament sit in the first class seats and the staff members are relegated to the economy class seats at the back of the aeroplane. One does not hear complaints from staff members about this kind of thing, but one often hears them from members of the committee who find that they are unable sensibly to utilise the time spent in travelling in aeroplanes with staff members. It is very important to be able to sit with the secretary or the assistant secretary of a committee and plan the line of interrogation upon which one might embark when the committee meets to hear evidence. 
The history of the Aboriginal Affairs Committee has been such that it has been required to look into areas of specialised investigation. For example, the inquiry into Aboriginal alcohol problems, which was concluded and reported upon to the Parliament I think, in November of last year, actually commenced on 14 April 1976. So the Committee inquired into the reference on Aboriginal alcohol abuse for more than 20 months. The inquiry involved hearing 205 witnesses and receiving 139 submissions. Obviously the inquiry was extremely comprehensive. 
I make the point that this eccentricity, this great specialisation, can be done only at the expense of other things with which the Committee could be regarded as having a prerogative to deal. The motion which we are considering deals with the Committee taking evidence and reporting on 'the present circumstances of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people and the effect of policies and programs on them'. Yet for two years- for the life of a parliament- the Committee was steered off into inquiring into that very important but only sectional facet of Aboriginal welfare. There are very many other matters with which it can deal. I believe it is important that the new Committee moves very quickly into an overseeing role and finds out what the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is about, how big is its domain, and what are the parameters of its problems. After all, the previous Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs was never given the opportunity to look, for example, at Aboriginal hostels or housing generally, the Aboriginal Loans Commission, Aboriginal legal problems, the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service or Aboriginal enterprises. There are many facets of Aboriginal affairs. 
I say to the Minister, who has been most cooperative in the work of this Committee, that he should have regard to the likelihood of the Parliament becoming more effective if that Committee were to be given an overseeing role rather than being directed too early into a specialised area. I imagine that the Committee will be tidying up some unfinished business. The previous Committee had only just started its inquiry into Aboriginal health. I have no doubt that that inquiry could easily last for a period in excess of 12 months. It might last for as long as two years. Committees travel to remote parts of the country at considerable expense. It can be very time consuming also. I suppose that many honourable members in the chamber would not know that almost every parliamentary recess period is taken up by committee members travelling to far off places. There would be merit in conducting a concurrent inquiry, so that if a committee lands in a certain community it can look at problems apart from those of, say, alcohol. It is absurd not to have a good objective look at Aboriginal education, Aboriginal housing and all the other problems at the same time. I commend to the Minister the idea that concurrent references from him might be taken on board by the Committee. 
I wish to mention only one other matter. While the Committee was dealing with its alcohol inquiry it also took on the inquiry into Aboriginal land rights. This Committee consists of eight members, and it was apparent that it could not handle both of those investigations. So a Senate committee of inquiry was appointed. I wonder if there might be some merit in this Standing Committee becoming a joint standing committee so that a larger number of members and senators might be deployed over the wide spectrum of matters which obviously need a great deal of investigation. This is most deserving and extremely important work. The Committee has had the good fortune to be ably led by its  Chairman,  backed up by the staff, and to be given every indication of confidence and co-operation from the Minister. I extend my best wishes for the continued success of the Committee when the new members are appointed, following the passing of this motion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Has the Department of Social Security received further submissions from the Victorian Council for Handicapped Readers regarding the Copyright Act to provide for the reproduction of literature and dramatic works for the blind and disabled without infringing the copyright of works so copied. 
Can the Minister say what OECD nations provide for reproductions of published works for blind and disabled persons to be non-infringement of copyright. 
Although the time in which to prepare for this debate was very limited one would not need a great deal of practice to demolish the attitude of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  I think it is appropriate that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  should introduce this matter of public importance, namely the depressed state of the home building industry due to the inadequacy of financial support for the industry. The Minister, who is new to this area of parliamentary and public interest, probably has not had the opportunity to move around among the industry groups to ascertain the extent of anxiety and uncertainty which is in evidence. He needs only to turn on the radio here in Canberra on practically any morning to hear something about the depressed state of the housing industry in Canberra itself. If he were to go to any of the housing industry conferences, be they conferences of permanent building societies, terminating building societies, the real estate industry or the building unions, he would find that the same feeling of serious concern in evidence. 
The fact of the matter is, of course, that housing is going beyond the reach of the people and the Government seems to be quite oblivious to that trend. Let me enumerate some of the statistical facts of the situation as outlined by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It might be best if I go back a little way to the bulletin dated 2 February 1978 which, in dealing with building approvals to December 1977, states: 
In seasonally adjusted terms the number of new dwellings approved in December 1977 (11,100) rose by 4 per cent when compared with November 1977 (10,700) but fell 12 per cent when compared with December 1 976 ( 1 2,600). 
That is a very serious decline. The bulletin continues: 
For the year ended December 1977 the number of new dwellings approved was 129,700 compared with approvals of IS 1,100 in the previous twelve months, a drop of 14 per cent. 
If that does not reveal in the starkest possible terms a very serious downturn in the industry nothing possibly could. We could debate this very serious situation until we were blue in the face but apparently the Minister would never be impressed. The bulletin released by the Australian Statistician on 22 February 1978, in dealing with the number of new dwellings, states: 
In seasonally adjusted terms the number of new dwellings commenced during December Quarter 1977(30,400) fell by 19 per cent when compared with December Quarter 1976 (37,700). 
For the twelve months ended December 1977, the seasonally adjusted figure for the number of new dwellings commenced was 129,000 a fall of 10 per cent when compared with the figure of 144,100 for the previous twelve months. 
These are not my figures. They are simply figures contained in the latest of the main statistical bulletins available and I doubt whether the Minister would, for a solitary moment, dispute the accuracy of this information. Again, the bulletin released by the Australian Statistician and dated 2 March, in dealing with building approvals for January 1978, states: 
In seasonally adjusted terms the number of new dwellings in January 1978 (9,900) fell by 1 1 per cent when compared with December 1977 (11,100) and 24 per cent when compared with January 1977(13,000). 
There it is in hard, factual form. The Government cannot get away from that situation. Nothing is happening as regards governmental initiatives. It appears to me that this Government has virtually abdicated its responsibilities in connection with the housing prices. We hear the platitude about turning everything over to the States. It is a matter of turning over the responsibility but not the wherewithal to enable the State governments to take up the slack which has been created by this Government's abdication of responsibility for housing and so many other areas. When one compares that with the great range of initiatives taken by the Labor Administration from 1972 to 1975 one begins to understand why this deficiency has occurred. 
Where is the new Commonwealth-State housing agreement that has been talked about for a long time? We have seen some of the indicators emerge. All we know is that something very serious is about to happen that is bound to have the effect of increasing housing interest rates and imposing a greater burden on low income earners, whether they be buying houses or paying increased rents through the reflected increase in interest. That undoubtedly will be the situation. It seems to me that the Government will go on from that to put new dependency onto the Housing Allowance Voucher Experiment scheme- the HAVE scheme. It is simply a Fraser Government device to get welfare housing out of the custodial care of the corporate caring process of governments and into the hands of the private sector. People will be hounded out of their housing commission homes. Soon we will have some kind of dictum to that effect. 
Where are the new initiatives? Last week a delegation of pensioners from my electorate wanted to know the truth about allegations that the Government was going to curtail the benefits available under the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act and that the Government was going to reduce the amount of money available under that legislation. We know that the Government has already slashed the funds available for pensioner housing through the subsidy schemes. Those subsidies have been reduced from a $4 for $ 1 basis to a $2 for $ 1 basis. Where is new hope for the young people of this country represented by any attitude or proposal coming forward from the other side of this chamber? Has there been a solitary suggestion? 
We have heard much about the homes savings grant scheme and the amendments that have occurred under that heading. The effect of all that is simply that this Government is intent on getting money into the hands of people irrespective of whether they have a genuine housing need. Money which previously went to the deserving home-seeker is now being given to people who, in many instances, do not need any assistance at all. In fact, the Government is not taking any steps to ensure that the money it is giving under the homes savings grant scheme is even being used for housing. The Government cannot even deny my contention that often that money is given to wealthy people who use it for overseas trips or to buy motor cars, jewellery, fur coats and all kinds of things. That is not to say that there are not people among them who are deserving of that kind of assistance. It is the contention of the Opposition that the Government should be making government funds available to the deserving. I strongly criticise the lack of discernment on the part of Government supporters so far as this blatant handout is concerned. 
I suggest that new initiatives should be taken by the Government. Foremost among those initiatives is the need to get funds into the hands of terminating building societies, which in turn can make money available, as they did under the Labor Government, to people around the average weekly earnings income level at an interest rate of about  5Vi  per cent. There should be an element of subsidy similar to that given to people whose income is low enough to attract support from the housing commissions. If Government supporters look at the reports of the Indicative Planning Council, which is another authority set up by the Labor Government, they will find that our housing needs and our capacity to produce housing is falling short. Everything reflects incompetence on the part of the Fraser Administration. Unless something is done we will see the deterioration of many social standards brought about through the inadequacy of housing. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister receive a deputation from the Pharmacy Guild of Australia during the latter pan of 1977 when a proposal was made for reintroduction of a patient contribution at hospital outpatient departments to cover both medical consultations and pharmacy supply, equivalent to the pharmaceutical benefits surcharge of $2 per item. 
What additional revenue would result from implementation of this proposal. 
Would reintroduction of outpatient charges disadvantage low income patients and include persons who at present receive emergency treatment without charge. 
Is the Government still considering the implementation of the proposal put by the deputation; if so, when can a decision be expected. 
Under this Government the Australian economy has fallen into a deep and damaging recession. 
Only the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and their henchmen reject the notion that the Australian economy is in any kind of recession but the facts speak for themselves. The number of people unemployed has risen to 445,000, or 7.2 per cent of the work force. This is a rise of 1 63,000 over the number of registered unemployed as at December 1975. In lost wages and lost production, unemployment is costing Australia approximately $5 billion or 6 per cent of its gross domestic product This loss is more than 50 times greater than the estimated loss of $65m in wages through industrial disputes. There is no concern for the productive people who are put out of the work force for reasons completely out of their control. The Government is concerned only with statistics. Behind the scene moves have been made to minimise the importance of Commonwealth Employment Service statistics and to issue only Australian Bureau of Statistics figures which do not cover people seeking part time employment or readily established worsening unemployment trends. 
The housing industry is in a state of serious decline. The number of new dwellings begun in the December quarter dropped 19 per cent compared with December 1976. There were 7,300 fewer houses built when the need for more reached crisis proportions. Small business is going out backwards. Last year, 1,270 small businesses went bankrupt; non-business bankruptcies totalled 2,196, 926 more than the previous year, that is an absolutely unprecedented increase. There has been a sharp decline in trade reserves. In 1976-77 Australia had a deficit of $ 1,866m in the current account. Trade reserves are dangerously low and now cover only three months' worth of our import bill. 
We have heard a good deal about the rural sector of the community. The fact is that our farmers have been ignored. Real farm income per farm is estimated to fall by a mammoth 19 per cent this year, calculated on an annual inflation rate of 9 per cent. 
-This is done deliberately by the National Country Party whose members make all the noises here but deliver nothing which would be of benefit to the rural community. Inflation has been mentioned. The fact is that inflation continues unabated. The drop in the annual rate of inflation to 9.3 per cent is out of step with the average rate of inflation in the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which is 8.3 per cent. So the Fraser Government has been less successful in bringing down inflation than other governments and it has deliberately caused unnecessary hardship and unemployment. How did this incompetent Administration escape the wrath of the people on 10 December? How were the voters deceived into believing that this Prime Minister, who is as sensitive as a stormtrooper in a teashop, could weld together this calamitous collection of conservatives we see opposite, this Dad's Army, and make them the administrators of our nation to do even more damage and to wreak even more havoc on the unsuspecting citizens of this country? 
The Fraser Government has been outstandingly successful at disguising motives, deliberately creating false impressions, stating one thing and doing another, and obtaining much political mileage out of the continued economic insecurity of the electorate. The fact is that the Prime Minister has used successfully the technique of statement fortified by restatement in order to create an impression, in the place of evidence to the contrary, that the situation is as he has stated. To get away with this he has not  to  be subjected to close media scrutiny. This is achieved in Australia by the Prime Minister and the Government maintaining the support of the Press and media barons. This is made easy because they are so few in number. Australia has the most concentrated media in the world. We are now down to 17 capital newspapers as against a peak of 26 in 1923, and we are down to three proprietors against a peak of 2 1 in that same year, 1923. If a journalist gets retrenched from the Packer newspaper stable his only choice is the Fairfax stable or the Murdoch stable and that limited choice helps to make captives of the people who serve the media. 
The avoiding of close media scrutiny is achieved also by reducing the political criticism, or the effect of political criticism, emanating from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is achieved by cutting back on the sums of money allocated to the Commission. This reduced media scrutiny is achieved by appointing ABC commissioners and chairpersons calculated to respond to or be sympathetic to the Government, and I instance  Mr Norgard  who came from the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and  Sir Henry  Bland who came from the Department of Defence. Management then can make administrative decisions in keeping with the Fraser strategy. There have been cutbacks in the transcript services of the ABC. There have been cutbacks in the Broadband type programs. There have been cutbacks in overseas visits by the news units of the ABC. Of course there is intimidation of reporters into toeing the line. If the reporter becomes too penetrating or critical in a line of questioning his or her effect is minimised. I instance the case of George Negus who was not given another substantial political interview with the ABC after interviewing the Prime Minister before the last election. The result is that reporters very often impose self-constraint in keeping with the unstated limits of management. 
The reduced media scrutiny is achieved also by minimising the viewing audience of the ABC by forcing the Commission through financial constraints or political pressures not to continue with or to sell popular programs. All this is done while the Government espouses, as the Governor-General stated in his Speech, its fundamental belief that a better society can be realised only by giving the men and women of Australia a greater measure of 'choice, power and freedom'. This statement of empty rhetoric is accompanied by repressive action through the operation of an economic policy which diminishes, not increases, for most Australians their choice, their power and their freedom. 
The effectiveness of the Prime Minister's use and manipulation of the media can be illustrated by several current examples. Let me refer first of all to the uranium decision of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The ACTU resolution was to honour existing contracts from the stockpile at Lucas Heights or from Mary Kathleen but stipulated that labour would not be available for the commencement of any new mining project unless certain conditions were fulfilled. These conditions related to proliferation, terrorism, safeguards in relation to nuclear weapons, the existence of proven safe ways of disposal and/or storage of radioactive wastes, environmental concerns and the rights of Aborigines. 
The media commentators and the Press seek to create the impression that the ACTU has given the go ahead to uranium mining. The  Australian  newspaper conveniently heads an article: ACTU honours uranium contracts'. The news talks of reversal of a hard line against uranium. Significantly the media and the Government are attempting to equate the ACTU conditions, which have to be satisfied before labour can be used for new mining ventures, with the safeguards policy of the Fraser Government. These conditions are not the same. The blurring of the distinction is deliberate. The Press is serving the purpose of the Fraser Government. The differences are ignored. Instead, the Australian public is showered with statements from the Prime Minister calculated to relieve the genuine concern of the majority of Australians but which do not stand up to close scrutiny. The emphasis is to the effect that safeguards are effective, that the problems of disposal have been solved, that the environment is safeguarded and that the rights of Aborigines are protected. This is done regardless of objections and pinned on the disposable myth that Australia's uranium supplies are required to meet present and future international shortages in energy supplies. The Fraser Government, through the Governor-General, reiterates its intention to proceed with the development of uranium. This is a top priority with the Fraser Government because of the dictates of the Government's backers and its upholders. 
Another example of the manipulation of the media occurred in connection with the regrettable Hilton bombing. The Prime Minister launched into a military manoeuvre and by executive action of dubious constitutional validity called in the troops, and the troops responded in this dress rehearsal as it has been called. No analysis has been made of why the existing security arrangements were wanting. No explanation has been given of why the conference took place in a venue that local security authorities advised was not suitable because of the difficulty of maintaining adequate security. No mention was made of reports that the Government had been advised by the New South Wales Police that the Hilton was not suitable. 
In the face of such opposition to the venue, who made the decision? Once the tragedy occurred Australia was overnight thrust under martial law. The beneficiaries of this incident, because of careful use of the media, were the security services, the very services which failed us. The impetus is lost on the proposed inquiries by the South Australian and New South Wales governments into the actions of their special branches. The impetus is given to allocating more funds to and expanding police forces and security forces. The Prime Minister benefited because the tragedy removed from public attention the failure of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting to achieve anything of substance. It was a futile, expensive exercise in grandstanding. It placed in the background for a time at least the controversial and damaging appointment of  Sir John  Kerr as Ambassador to the United Nations Educational 
Scientific and Cultural Organisation. It placed security matters ahead of economic matters at a time when a dramatic increase has occurred in unemployment, which is not solely attributable to school leavers, the currency is under threat and Australia's access to international markets is deteriorating. So we have a continuous deception and manipulation of the media in order to fool the people. 
The year 1975 was when the hypothetical loans issue, loans which were never made and the order for which was revoked, was successfully used by the Prime Minister to give him advantage in the December election in an attempt to justify the actions of blocking Supply. In 1977 careful use of the media prevented the true domestic and international economic position of Australia permeating to the electorate. The Prime Minister was able to project to the electorate that his economic policy was working in the face of all the indicators which were to the contrary and that Australians could not afford a change in political direction again. This was a play on the insecurity of the electorate, a sort of: We're the hard medicine now; things will get better; it will be stupid to change the medicine to obtain an alternative strategy for economic recovery'. 
In the Governor-General's speech the Government indicated its intention to adhere to the same medicine and to use the same stonewalling techniques with the media that served it so well at the last two elections. But the medicine will not lead to an economic cure. Those who are copping it now are the middle and low income earners, small business and sections of the Australian owned and based middle and large industries. Under the banner of choice, power and freedom, the so-called fundamental belief of the Government, more Australians are denied economic freedom and the right to work and are rendered unproductive and powerless as unemployment is deliberately increased. The Australian economy is marching from recession to serious depression under the manipulation of the media by the Fraser Government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What  sum was  spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
-The announced action of the Premier of Queensland in my view is a blatant violation of human rights and a violation of the will of the Aboriginal people- indeed that of the people of Australia. The Queensland Government has announced that it intends to withdraw the subsidy for the maintenance of the Aurukun and Mornington Island settlements after 3 1 March. Of course, the Uniting Church in Australia, which has administered those two reserves for 76 years, regards this action as being against the best interests of the Aboriginal people. Queensland is the only State not to have handed over its responsibilities for Aborigines to the Federal Government in terms of the 1967 referendum. There is no doubt that this move is designed to put the kibosh on the Mornington Islanders' land claims, to smooth the way for Aurukun mining operations and to curtail the movement of Aurukun people to their tribal lands. 
I know that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who preceded me in the debate, is sympathetic to the Aboriginal people in this matter, but the Opposition is certainly not satisfied with the action that he has taken. I ask him to seek a more positive response from this Government which since 1976 has hardly been in the vanguard insofar as the introduction of progressive legislation and the taking of action to safeguard Aboriginal land rights are concerned. I ask the Minister Why did this Government not support the Aboriginal people in their case earlier this year before the Privy Council when they sought an order restraining the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement from entering into an agreement without consulting members of the Aboriginal community in respect of Aurukun? There are many questions that I think the Minister should answer. For example, when will this Government tell the Premier of Queensland that it disagrees with his plans to take over these Reserves? A statement in an unequivocal manner seems to be outstanding at this time. When will this Government uphold the International Labour Organisation and United Nations conventions with regard to the rights of indigenous people insofar as land and other matters are concerned? When will this Government formulate investment policies which will prevent the violation of Aboriginal rights? When will the Government exercise its constitutional power and legislate more effectively to protect Aboriginal rights? When will the Government enforce the Federal Aboriginal policy through its control of bauxite exports? 
On 21 November 1975 the Aurukun people and BOEMAR- the Board of Ecumenical Mission and Relations- were staggered to learn that the Queensland Government had approved a $ 1,000m bauxite mining and alumina refining scheme on the Aurukun reserve. Of course, the necessary legislation was prepared and pushed through the Queensland Parliament in that very difficult period after the Whitlam Government had been removed from office. There is no doubt that if that event had not occurred the Queensland Government would not have been prepared to move in such a dramatic way in respect of this issue. A Labor government would have taken a very firm stand on this matter. The issues concerned at that time were raised strongly. They involved the question of the caretaker Fraser Government's foreign investment policy. The first plank of such a policy in respect of Cape York ought to be the protection of Aboriginal land rights. Would any international consortium enter into an agreement for a $ 1,000m mining project without ensuring that there was no impediment represented by Federal policies? It is because there have been ambiguities about the investment policies that this action has proceeded in such a heavy handed manner. 
Of course, the imprimatur was given by the Fraser Government, if only by its inaction, and it was given at that time in contempt of its caretaker obligations to the Governor-General. Where were the warnings of the former Attorney-General? Where was the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs at that time? He should have been acting as a watch dog for the Aboriginal people when this assault on the rights of the Aurukun people took place back at the end of 1975 and the beginning of 1976. It is all right to make vague expressions of concern but much more could have been done about the situation. Little that is effective has been done up to now. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was asked a question by the honourable member for Dundas, who is now interjecting, on 2 March 1976. He answered: 
Two questions are involved- the rights of the people at Aurukun and the foreign investment policy of this Government. I am advised that under present circumstances the companies involved are wholly owned overseas. As a result of discussions that were held this morning I will be writing to the Premier. 
This House has still to learn what the Prime Minister wrote, what were the results, whether the Prime Minister was satisfied with the results and whether any action was taken as a consequence. A great game of table tennis is going on at present and has been going on since this Government took office, but the rights of mining companies seem to go unfettered at the expense of those of the Aboriginal people. On the same day as the honourable member for Dundas asked that question, I asked the Prime Minister: 
Are the terms of the Queensland Government's Aurukun Associates Agreement Act such that Aboriginal people are cheated of royalties and deprived of ownership and customary use of their land? Has the Queensland Government infringed United Nations and International Labour Organisation conventions regarding the rights of indigenous people in respect of their traditional lands, particularly the right to be consulted? In what way is it intended to redress this situation? 
The Prime Minister answered: 
I have no wish to add to the answer that I have already given on this subject - 
So this inaction goes on in respect of the Aurukun Associates Agreement, which is now the subject of an Act passed by the Queensland Parliament with most indecent haste. This Act concerns primarily the rights of this great consortium made up of Tipperary Corporation, an American land developer, which has 40 per cent of the shares; Billiton Aluminium Australia, a subsidiary pf Royal Dutch Shell, which has 40 per cent of the shares; and Aluminium Pechiney Holdings Pty Ltd, an offshoot of the French Pechiney group, which has 20 per cent of the shares. Of" course, they were the signatories to this agreement, together with the Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, a governmental figurehead. The unfortunate fact is that, although this project had enormous consequences involving the development of a refinery, a smelter, a town, a harbour, various works, mud ponds, mines, stockpiles and various quarries, the Aboriginal people themselves were not signatories to that agreement. Of course, the situation has not improved since then. 
The Aboriginal people and the Church have reacted strongly. The Reverend John Brown, who is the Chief" Executive Officer of the Uniting Church's Commission on Mission, said: 
The Queensland Government had already drawn up an agreement with the consortium, they had enacted that agreement, and it was only at that time that anybody found out about it- we heard that the legislation was to be enacted a few days before it was passed and in response the Aurukun people protested very loudly. 
Then Keith Saunders, who was the representative on the Aboriginal Congress, declared in a telegram that the Fraser caretaker administra-lion had allowed the Queensland National Party and Liberal Party to lease Aurukun Aboriginal land without the will of the people. The people themselves sent out a Press release which stated: 
We, the Aurukun people, will not allow any mining at all on our land. We will not accept any money for our land. Our land is sacred to us. We hunt on it and have our sacred places on it. We want Comalco, Pechiney and Tipperary to leave our land alone. We must protect our culture. 
Telegram after telegram expressing concern was sent. That is the state of the nation in this matter.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I put it to you that the people of Australia are concerned not just with the high-handed attitude of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  but also with the indifference displayed by the Fraser Government since the beginning of 1 976. I invite the Government to take more positive action because, if it does not, there will be a great reaction on the part of the Aboriginal people throughout this land and Australia will be darkened in the eyes of the people of the world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition, in all good faith, is prepared to cooperate in trying out this proposal in the terms as explained by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  There is obviously a need to try this system out on a trial and error basis. Nobody believes that we have struck the jackpot, as it were, up to this moment in setting desirable hours for members of Parliament. I suppose it would be very difficult to find any industry in the whole of Australia where people are expected to perform so late at night. Eleven o'clock adjournments, which we have now, certainly represent a great improvement on what we had in previous years. But it is still a most unreasonable form of behaviour and it is good to see some experimentation taking place. It is not that that particular problem is affected by these proposals; what is affected is the travelling time of members, ministerial staffs and others. Of course it is possible that expenditure on travel could also be affected. 
The Opposition has the utmost sympathy for people who have to travel to far off places. I suppose it has never crossed the minds of many members of the public that there are members of parliament who sit here very late on a Thursday evening and who have to rise early on a Friday to fly to Perth, only to have to return again on the Monday after engaging in a heavy weekend program in their electorates in the case of members of the House of Representatives, and in their States in the case of senators. Of course that applies also to members whose electorates are in the remote parts of Queensland. It is all right for Tasmanians; they get it easy. It is just a hop, step and a jump from Canberra to Tasmania. The same applies to Sydneysiders and Melbournites. But there are people who have great difficulties with travel. So we are going to try out this process of sitting for two successive weeks and then having a break. 
I know there are some honourable members who would be tempted to ask: 'Why are we sitting at all?', because there is a great deficiency of substantial legislation on the Notice Paper. I prompt the Leader of the House to come to appreciate that we do not want to see a mockery made of the parliamentary institution in any way. There is a tendency for this Government to take its big majority for granted and to play on that fact by not engaging in any useful reform at all. At present the Notice Paper is most uninspiring. We want to come into this chamber to debate the real problems of the people of Australia. 
-Well, I am not too sure that the Government did too well this morning, either. I know that the Government was anxious to get that particular issue closed down today as it has wanted to do ever since the computer issue has been before the Parliament. I think the Government is very lucky- and the Leader of the House has raised a significant point indeed- in that the computer issue might well be closed down now for two weeks as the Parliament goes into recess, according to these proposed new arrangements. It is very fortuitous for the Government because we could easily have got to the situation where the Government was being pursued by the Opposition on an issue about which there was extreme vulnerability. What better device could the Government use than simply to say: 'Under the new Standing Orders we have to close down the Parliament for two weeks: Thereupon we hope that the issue will be buried'. I know full well that the Government is relishing the implementation of this proposal at this particular time because it is certainly under great pressure from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  about the computer matter. We do not want to see the parliamentary institution mocked in that way. This is a pretty important aspect to take into account. We do not want this device to be used for the purpose of enabling the Government to escape scrutiny in respect of matters that are vital to the proper functioning of government and the wellbeing of the people of this country. 
What has to be realised is that when we have this successive four-day sitting week arrangement, members will encounter some difficulties in their constituencies. Even those honourable members whose constituencies are close to Canberra will find that they have inadequate opportunity to see people. They will be returning to their electorates on Friday evening so there will be no opportunity to interview people in their electorates on the Friday as has been the case, and then they will be back again in Canberra on the Monday so there will be no opportunity to see people in their electorates on the Monday. In that situation honourable members can keep people waiting for two successive weeks. I am not sure that that is the most considerate thing to do. I do not believe that the Leader of the House, in proposing this new system, is tending to treat the constituency at large with contempt. But people will have to understand that as a result there will be those periods when members will not be available. 
We are to try out a new process, though fairly intrepidly. I hope it works to our advantage but I can assure the Leader of the House that we will be watching him carefully because we are not going to stand idly by and see this system used in such a way that the Government is able to shovel all its controversial stuff into the closing hours of a two-week period and then adjourn the Parliament so that the Opposition cannot get a fair go in discussing matters. When all is said and done, this Government has numbers which, if it has any intelligence at all, can be manipulated to its considerable advantage. The Government does not need other devices as well. 1 simply say to the Leader of the House that in accepting the co-operation which is extended by the Opposition in this matter, he ought to realise that we will be watching carefully to ensure that we are not deprived of debating opportunities because of the implementation of this process. If we find exploitation of that kind, we will be moving to revert to the old arrangements or at least to get the Parliament meeting more frequently. I think everybody can see the great danger whereby with the Parliament in recess for these intermittent two-weekly periods the Opposition could be deprived of the opportunity to scrutinise the activities of this Government. With those words of warning, on behalf of the Opposition I again signify our co-operation which we certainly will extend in this experimentation period. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, as you will appreciate, honourable members are always at a disadvantage when matters of this nature come before the House. As a former Minister for Housing and Construction, I realised that I had the advantage of presenting to the House enormous documentation about which honourable members did not have any understanding other than what I had said in support of the motion. This is quite at variance with other practices that we have in this Parliament. For example, when Ministers make statements two hours notice is given. In matters of this kind we engage in a procedure of passing references on to the Public Works Committee for investigation. Great expenditure is automatically incurred as a result of the House passing a motion such as this. But we have very little knowledge of the proposals other than what the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  spells out when he speaks in support of the motion. 
Just before I changed portfolios and went from Housing and Construction I was proposing to introduce a new scheme. I take this opportunity to commend to the Government that consideration might be given to making more information available at an earlier stage prior to the motion being moved in the House. One of the factors that would interest me in connection with this matter is the manner by which the proposed construction could possibly be affected by staff ceilings that have been imposed in the Department of Construction. I do not know what stage the planning has reached, how far documentation has gone, whether so far everything has been achieved by departmental resources or whether, if those resources are so inadequate it has been necessary to engage outside consultants. I think it is very important for the Minister to indicate the extent to which planning will be carried out and the technical services will be provided from the traditional Public Service area and the extent to which they might have to be supplemented from outside the Public Service. 
It would be interesting to know also what proportion of the estimated cost of $52m of the Academy has been spent on estimates and plans to this preliminary stage. Is the Public Works Committee simply inquiring into a proposal that is virtually a fait accompli inasmuch as there has already been so much expenditure that we just have to go ahead with the proposal? What commitments have been made to consultants and the like? I am not at all satisfied as to the adequacy of the information that has been given by the Minister. I would be appreciative if some light could be thrown on the points that I have raised. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented and desire to make a personal explanation. 
-It has been brought to my attention that a very serious accusation has been made against a parliamentarian by the name of Johnson, and extensive media coverage is now in progress. The matter is the subject of very great conjecture in the Press gallery. I simply rise to say that there are three members of this chamber whose name is Johnson, spelt the same way as mine. They are the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  - 
-I want to indicate the nature of the problem. Yesterday morning a shadowy figure was alleged to have assailed a police car in the precincts of Parliament House. He sought to get into the car. He was apprehended by the police. He sought to elude the police and as a result there was altercation. I do not know whether an arrest has been made. The story is about to break and I simply want to say that I am assured by the honourable member for Burke that he is not involved. I certainly am not involved. I am told that - 
-Nor is the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  involved, although his name is spelt with a 't'. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What nursing homes approved under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act and National Health Act are situated in the Electoral Divisions of (a) Hughes and (b) Cook. 
What are the names and addresses of the registered owners of each home. 
What is the number of approved beds in each home. 
What are the weekly charges in each home. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) How many persons were registered for employment at the (a) Caringbah and (b) Wollongong Commonwealth Employment Service Offices at the end of each month during 1976 and 1977. 
) How many and what proportion of these persons were (a) female and (b) male (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were principal work categories stated for each group referred to in part (2). 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has any land, in addition to that listed in answer to my questions No. 1401  (Hansard,  7 December 1976, page 3454) and No. 944  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, page 2530), been purchased for Defence Service Homes; if so, what was the purchase price. 
Has any land listed in those answers since been sold or developed; if so, (a) what land was sold, (b) what was the sale price, (c) to whom was it sold, (d) which areas have been developed and (e) what was the cost per block of developed land. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
How many persons in the electoral divisions of (a ) Hughes and (b) Cook currently receive pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs and how many persons are receiving each type of pension. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period: (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975; (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976; (c) 1 July 1 976 to 30 June 1 977; and (d ) 1 July 1 977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1 976 to 30 June 1 977 and (d ) 1 July 1 977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14December 1975 to 30 June 1976,(c) 1 July 1 976 to 30 June 1 977 and (d) 1 July 1 977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Is there any evidence that Queensland's current crop of peanuts or the crop harvested in the second half of 1 977 is subject to mould. 
Have CSIRO biologists investigated this mould to ascertain whether it has any similarity to the variety which afflicted crops in Africa and which was attributed with causing widespread liver disease. 
With what frequency are Queensland's peanut crops subjected to examination to safeguard the health of consumers and what are the results of the most recent studies. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports of the continuing detention of  Mr Secheba  Montsitsi, the former  president  of the Soweto Students Representative Council. 
Can he say how long  Mr Montsitsi  has been in detention without charge. 
Is he able to confirm reports that  Mr Montsitsi  has been tortured and assaulted to such an extent during his detention that he has required hospitalisation. 
Will the Government register a strong protest to the South African Government over the detention of  Mr Montsitsi. 
Will he take some substantive action in this case to support his statement to the United Nations General Assembly of September 1977 that Australia takes human rights seriously and without action talking of human rights is wasted. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1 976 to 30 June 1 977 and (d ) 1 July 1 977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How much was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a)11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, 
14December 1975 to 30 June 1976, 
1 July 1 976 to 30 June 1 977 and 
1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
6 ) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
-This Bill will come as a great shock not only to the Aboriginal people but also to the people of Australia generally. It leaves the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island dashed in the expectations that they have had built up through the media over recent weeks. The Opposition is very disturbed and disappointed about the inadequacy of the legislation which has no capacity to deal with the fundamental issue which gave rise to the dispute between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments. Appropriately the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  in leading for the Opposition, has moved that this Bill be withdrawn. 
This Bill, which obviously has been thrown together with impetuosity and indecent haste, is simply designed as a sop to people whose interest has been generated by the media rather than as an effective panacea for the problem with which the Aurukun and Mornington Island people are concerned. Of course the Bill should be withdrawn. It should be withdrawn and referred to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. If that were done, the move would certainly not be without precedent. That process was adopted by the Labor Government with the variety of legislation and great initiatives which characterised Labor administrations between 1972 and 1975. 
As has been said, the National Aboriginal Conference is currently meeting in Canberra. It is most insistent that it should be given the opportunity to discuss this legislation. The National Aboriginal Conference, which was sitting yesterday when the Bill was in the process of preparation, was not consulted. It was fortuitous for some members of the Conference to have made a visit to Parliament House last night and to have gained the benefit of some information which was virtually leaked to them. They were told of the general subject matter but were hardly given the opportunity to examine the details of the Bill. We want to see the legislation referred to the National Aboriginal Conference in order to give the Conference dignity and proper recognition right from the innovative stage in which it finds itself now as it launches into a new area. The Government says that the Conference is to have responsibility and a real sense of dignity. It says that it is to be treated with respect rather than the maternalism and the indifference which characterised conservative governments' attitudes to Aboriginal problems in the past. 
We want this legislation withdrawn to take into account the suggestions of the NAC, people of the various reserves in Queensland and indeed in other States as this legislation, if it were found to be effective, could be emulated in and applied to other pans of the country. We want the legislation to provide for the acquisition of reserves existing at 3 1 March. We want the power vested in the relevant Aboriginal and Island communities. We want to give the Aboriginal people effective control of reserves. We want to ensure that they have a say about land rights. Two years ago to this month I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this question: 
Are the terms of the Queensland Government's Aurukun Associates Agreement Act such that Aboriginal people are cheated of royalties and deprived of ownership and customary use of their land? Has the Queensland Government infringed United Nations and International Labour Organisation conventions regarding the rights of indigenous people in respect of their traditional lands, particularly the right to be consulted? In what way is it intended to redress this situation? 
The right honourable gentleman replied to me that he had no further answer to give other than the answer that he had given to a previous question asked by the then member for Parramatta. He said: 
I will be writing to the Premier seeking additional information. My colleagues the Minister for National Resources and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will also be taking up with the appropriate Ministers the particular aspects that come within their responsibility. 
He went on to talk about foreign investment and said: 
Since the matter of foreign investment is also closely intertwined in this total situation there will also be discussions with the companies concerned to make sure that this Government's foreign investment policy is maintained. 
But two years have gone by. Apparently the companies and the Queensland Government have such regard for the foreign investment policy of this Government that they are prepared to surge ahead regardless with a $ 1,000m investment in bauxite utilisation. Of course the Federal Government has been ineffective in the two years that have since transpired. 
This legislation is introduced in a FederalState atmosphere of rancour, animosity and bitter dissension. It provides further evidence of the division in and divided purpose of the Government parties and the lack of common objectives of the Liberal and National Country Parties at 
State and Federal levels. The people in the parties are Jekylls and Hydes. They speak with different voices. They contradict one another. This Bill was conceived by an action of State Liberal-National Party intimidation. It was nurtured by inter-government distrust and jealousy. It was bora in an atmosphere of panic, desperation and expediency. 
The Commonwealth-State on/off negotiation process over the future of Aurukun and Mornington Island has now totally broken down. We have a case now of irretrievable matrimonial breakdown between governments. The only marriage guidance counsellors appropriate to this case- the Aboriginal people- are being ignored. They should be consulted and listened to with respect to this situation. We have received telegrams from the NAC indicating that consultation is the very cornerstone of its claims and aspirations. Everything that has happened is the antithesis of the commitments that are made from time to time by the Government in respect of this consultative process. Paternalism is still the order of the day when the greatest controversy about Aboriginal affairs is dropped from the greatest height with the least possible notice. We are going backwards and not forward. 
This Bill has not been the subject of consultation. The opportunity of consultation has not been given to the Government of Queensland or the Parliamentary Opposition. It is hard to imagine a Bill of this complexity and significance introduced as it was today going through all stages contrary to all the parliamentary traditions. Usually a week's notice at least is given. I know that the Government expected to get the Bill through the Senate as well. For what purpose? It is a sop to the Aboriginal people. So we are just trying to present some public relations per se for the benefit of this benevolent Prime Minister who is suddenly seeking to appear to be concerned about Aboriginal welfare. Aboriginal communities and the Conference, as I have said, have also been ignored. 
The issue that gave rise to this Bill was the question of mining on Aboriginal reserves. It is a matter that is the subject of the Aurukun Associates Agreement Act which was enacted by the Queensland Government in 1975. It involves on the one hand the Queensland Government and on the other an overseas consortium which is not answerable to the people of this country but which is intent on reaping out the resources of this country in a vandalistic way as quickly as it can for the purpose of repatriating dividends to overseas shareholders. This consortium is made up of the Tipperary Corporation, which has 40 per cent of the shares, Billiton Aluminium Australia, which has 40 per cent of the shares, and Aluminium Pechiney Holdings Pty Limited, which has 20 per cent of the shares. We know about the Aboriginal people's attempt to have a say in these matters. It was not just a casual attempt. It took them right to the Privy Council. Why, we have such an anachronistic state of affairs in Queensland that we do not even have faith and trust in the Australiana that is represented by our own High Court. We had to see an issue concerning the indigenous people of this country dragged embarrassingly off to a high court of another land. That is as far as it has gone. 
This agreement covers a mining lease of 1905 square kilometres, of which 1800 square kilometres is on land reserved for the benefit of the Aboriginal inhabitants. The proposal also involves the likely establishment of an alumina refinery and smelter with all its ramifications- all its roads, its ponds, its store houses, its heaps of mullock and all the rest of it. The consequences to the Aboriginal people are immeasurable. At stake is their culture, their social structure, their traditions, their environment, their sacred sites and their religion. Those things are the playthings of the Bjelke-Petersen and Fraser governments. We are not talking just about Aurukun and Mornington Island. We are also talking about the other reserves in QueenslandBamaga, Bloomfield River, Cherbourg, Edward River, Hopevale, Lockhart River, Palm Island, Yarrabah and so on. This precedent will affect all those places. 
The Aurukun mining legislation was referred to an ombudsman in Queensland and he delivered a voluminous report after talking to the Aboriginal people. I do not have enough time to refer to it in other than a very cursory way. He said: 
I now identify the main issues of contention and fears and, if necessary, make comment upon them . . . 
The first heading in his report was entitled 'Fear of Desecration of Sacred (Religious) Sites and Holy (Burial) Grounds '. He went on to say: 
They remain unconvinced that the sites will be properly respected and protected. 
He mentioned a lady, a  Mrs Kawangka,  whom he said:   is intensely concerned that it is proposed to build a barrage across the Watson River in a position where the ground, to her, is holy because her people are buried there. 
He then dealt with the fear of the alcohol problem. He said: 
The Mission is presently free of liquor and the attendant miseries usually associated with drink. The responsible Aurukuns want to keep it this way. 
He went on to deal with the protection of the environment and the restoration of mined land because the Aboriginal people talked to him about it. He said: 
The Aurukuns expressed disappointment that the companies had not adequately consulted with them, especially upon the effect the proposed mining development would have upon the environment. 
He also dealt with the protection of the Aurukun settlement, hunting and fishing rights and the honouring of agreements and the enforcement of the law. He said: 
The nearest Queensland policeman is many miles and hours away and the people feel helpless against European intrusion, especially if there is a breaking of the la w. 
It was a Labor Government which entered into agreements with four of the mainland States to enable the Commonwealth to exercise responsibility in regard to Aboriginal affairs. The State of Victoria was co-operative, as were the States of South Australia, New South Wales and Western Australia. As a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I had something to do with the making of those agreements. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who has participated in this debate, is another former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. He was able to enter into such agreements. 
The honourable member for Petrie should ask the Aboriginal people whether that era is regarded as disastrous. All that has happened since then has been a reckless breaking of promises in regard to Aboriginal affairs by the Government that succeeded the Whitlam Government, a cutting of the availability of finance and a slowing down of initiatives. There is no doubt in the minds of the Aboriginal people as to which government served them best. The former Labor Government negotiated successfully agreements with four of the States and was in the process of making a great impact on the Queensland situation as well. Let us remember that only Queensland remains unco-operative. It has a Premier who is as stinted, defiant and racist as Rhodesia's Ian Smith. 
This is the second occasion that a Commonwealth Government has had to make special laws in respect of Queensland. The first occasion, of course, was the passage of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1973. This situation that has given rise to the introduction of this Bill is the discovery of bauxite at Aurukun. Queensland's bauxite deposits can be considered in similar terms to the uranium deposits in the Northern Territory, the iron ore deposits at Yeelirie in Western Australia and the diamonds at Oombulgurri in the Kimberleys. Already some efforts have been made in those States to safeguard the situation of Aboriginals. We have to apply the same principles. We have to work together, setting politics aside if you like, to isolate BjelkePetersenism. That needs to be done. I believe that some of the speakers in this debate  from  the National Country Party and the Liberal Party could have been far more forthright and unambiguous in that regard. The Queensland Government has been intransigent in its attitude. In a nutshell the attitude of the Premier of Queensland is in union with that of the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, who said on 1 June 1 977 in connection with uranium mining at Yeelirie: 
We could not agree to Aboriginal consent but only to consultation. 
That simply means that the companies and the Government will talk to Aborigines but will not listen or, if they listen, will not take any notice. The Aboriginal communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island distrust the Queensland Government because they know that they will be sold down the river in relation to mining. They would rather have the guidance of the Uniting Church, which has managed Aurukun since 1 904 and Mornington Island since 1914. They want self-management with the Uniting Church giving practical assistance and the Commonwealth Government providing financial support. They need consultative assistance to the extent that they determine from time to time. I do not doubt that in their minds they hope to be totally independent of the Uniting Church and all the other do-gooders, if you like, as soon as it is possible to accomplish that. More than anything else they want an effective say over the use of their land- the land they have used for thousands of years. 
Despite all the pretence and public relations, this Bill will not achieve that. In other words, the Aboriginal people have been sold short. This Bill is purely about those people and their community. It does not have the effect of giving them land rights. It has nothing to do with the land rights issue. The Bill is capable of conceding certain rights and prerogatives to communities established under the Queensland Aborigines Act of 1 97 1 . One wonders why the Government is so anxious to heap further indignity on that legislation, which is the subject of embarrassment for all Australians. The Queensland legislation is the most undignified and inhumane legislation relating to Aboriginals in operation in this country. Although there is much more to be said about this matter, I conclude by saying that much more has to be done if the aspirations of the people at Mornington Island and Aurukun in connection with the right to manage and run their own affairs effectively, based on the cornerstone of land ownership, are to be fulfilled. I am disappointed that more of my colleagues cannot speak on this matter. I believe that this legislation is going to be pigeon-holed off by being referred to the courts of this country and that the Parliament will lose an effective say on it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is with reluctance that the Opposition relinquishes this debate in the Committee stage. Many Opposition members would have liked to speak in the debate. We find ourselves restricted - 
-If Government supporters also wish to speak, I assure the honourable gentleman who interjected that the Opposition would be very happy to accommodate the Government. We believe that the debate is being curtailed. We made an arrangement that we would conclude the debate on the second reading at a prescribed time, provided we could get an extension of the Committee stage to 1 1.30 p.m. We intend to honour that agreement. But, at the same time, we regret that there was not more time to debate this matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)The  question is that the amendments be agreed to. Those of that opinion say Aye, to the contrary No, I think the Noes have it. Is a division required? 
Opposition members- Yes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The Committee will divide. Ring the bells. 

 The bells having been rung and 
 Mr Giles 
 proceeding to take the Chair - 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I do not accept the point of order. The ruling from the chair is that I have not appointed tellers and I am about to do so. I appoint the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  tellers for the Ayes and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  tellers for the Noes. 
Question put- 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) On what grounds is a tourist visa to Australia denied. 
How many persons have been refused visas for entry to Australia from (a) Italy, (b) Greece, (c) Malta, (d) Turkey, (e) Great Britain, (f) Ireland, (g) Cyprus, (h) Philippines, (i) Malaysia, and (j) the United States of America during (i) 1976 and (ii) 1977. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the bed capacity of each of the hostels in New South Wales operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. 
What percentage of this accommodation was used on a monthly basis per hostel during 1 976 and 1 977. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
What sums were paid under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP) and under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme (CRAFT) in the Electoral Division of Hughes during (a) 1976-77 and (b) the period 1 July 1977 to date. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What organisations have received Commonwealth Youth Support Scheme grants to date. 
What was the (a) amount and (b) duration of each grant. 
In which Federal electoral divisions have grants been made. 
How many applications for grants are outstanding at present. 
How many grants have been rejected. 
What was the (a) amount requested, (b) name of the organisation and (c) purpose of the grant in respect of each application rejected. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a)11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977and(d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
6 ) Ho w was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, the following question, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by the Department of Science on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d)1 July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were usedfor each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1 977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What improvements are needed to bring Service housing in the Moorebank, Holsworthy and Anzac Village areas up to a desirable standard. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1 978: 
Did any former senior officers of the Armed Services, after resigning or upon retirement, accept business appointments with companies which tender for defence contracts during the period December 1975 to December 1977; if so, what are the names of the officers and the companies involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
Has the Government considered the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy dated May 1 974; if so which of the 39 recommendations has the Government decided to (a) accept and (b) reject. 
-As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  pointed out last week, this is a straightforward and simple Bill. In addition, it is noncontroversial. I believe we ought to talk about the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation and the fundamental problems affecting the apple and pear industry. I deplore the fact that a debate of this kind is exploited by parish pump politics to evince some kind of miserable political advantage. It is not a question of Victoria versus Tasmania, or Tasmania versus South Australia. Surely the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who preceded me in this debate ought to start to think as an Australian. The honourable member for Blaxland made the point in his speech that the apple and pear industry is another primary industry that is under threat. Without making any bones about it, he pointed out in a very unambiguous way that the Opposition unequivocally supports the amendment to this legislation. That is how the situation stands. We do not want to be fiddling around with issues such as the great Apple Isle versus something in South Australia. The simple purpose of this Bill-- 
-The honourable member for Denison is trying to get into the act as well. If the people of Tasmania only realised how these people incessantly use the problems of Tasmania for their own miserable political survival they would turn them off when they exploit issues of this kind. 
The simple purpose of this Bill is to extend the borrowing power of the Australian Apple and 
Pear Corporation so that money can be borrowed for the purpose of promoting the consumption of apples and pears and apple and pear products. The extent to which such borrowing will be engaged in by the Corporation will require, of course, ministerial approval. The Corporation requires this power in the event that its funds, which are derived from a levy on exports of fresh apples and pears and a levy on apples and pears used for both processing and for sale on fresh fruit markets, are not sufficient to meet promotional expenditure costs of the seasonal nature of the receipts. 
The Apple and Pear Corporation was, of course, established by the Labor Government. I think that point was conceded by the honourable member for Franklin earlier in his speech. Everybody acknowledges that the Corporation has worked very well in its attempts to sell Australian apples and pears on overseas markets and to improve the return to producers. The Corporation has been successful in improving the coordination and regulation of apple and pear exports thereby promoting a national effort for the limited overseas markets available and removing the unnecessary competition between Australian producers which has been so detrimental in the past. I would like again to emphasise the point that we should not think in terms of interstate competition because the problems have been big enough in terms of competition within the industry itself, even in respect to Tasmania. 
The industry has been going through very hard times. The cutback or loss of the European markets, particularly Great Britain, has had a very distressing effect. Now we need to look for new markets. We have to get out of the zone A and B contemplation. I think the honourable member for Denison contended to this effect when he said we should be looking at the Middle East and Asia. Of course, we go along with those ideas. The fact of the matter is that there has been a very adverse effect on the level of income of producers of products destined for export. That is the essence of the situation. As is often the case, it is the efficient producer who is hardest hit when there is a collapse of an export market; that is to say, the bigger the investment or the larger the effort, the bigger the fall and the harder the fall when an export market goes from under an industry. That has happened in regard to the apple and pear industry. 
The Labor Government's initiatives have been continued by this Government. However, at the present time the stabilisation scheme provides for the payment of 80c a box for pears and $2 a box for apples destined for what is called 'at risk' markets. Of course, these are the markets in Europe and the United Kingdom. For many producers this support is not sufficient given the present rate of inflation. The stabilisation scheme seems to be working quite well for pears but for very complex reasons it is not working so well for apples, which reflects that there has been less difficulty in obtaining overseas markets for pears than for apples. 
-I believe I heard someone acquiesce. The Tasmanian yearly apple crop has been reduced by approximately 50 per cent since the beginning of the operation of the tree-pull scheme which finished last year. I understand that about 40 per cent of Tasmania's apple trees have been pulled out over the last four or five years. This program has assisted in improving the viability of the producers remaining. Producers who have been forced out or who have opted out of the industry have been heartbroken and little can be done at this stage about the situation in which they find themselves. The problems of the Huon Valley have been continually raised in this Parliament. Those who have remained are now on larger holdings. Regrettably the small farmer was forced out and this has its implications for the original economy of the district. Many apple growing districts are still suffering from the consequences. It will take a great deal of time before some compensating arrangements can be made to restore the equilibrium of a number of apple growing communities in several States. 
The Corporation as yet has not exercised its power of trade. Even though there are limits to this power imposed by the Apple and Pear Corporation it is to be hoped that in the future the Corporation will bite the bullet and seek new markets where private enterprise has made little or no effort. The Corporation is particularly suited to trade with those overseas companies which prefer to conduct trade on a company to company basis. It is in the areas of trade activity that the performance has not been as successful as it could be. Obviously there is a great deal of scope for the Corporation to get out and to sell and promote whether that activity be in respect of apple cider, which was mentioned by the previous speaker, or apples and pears in their raw state. This activity can be carried out on a much larger scale than has been the case hitherto. 
The Australian Labor Party platform commits a future Labor government to the encouragement and development of markets for Australian primary products by: 
establishing an Australian Government agency to coordinate and facilitate the sale of Australian primary products and assist service facilities to countries dealing on a government to government basis; 
encouraging the promotion overseas of primary products; 
providing infrastructure assistance- to importing countries; 
appointing agricultural attaches and market intelligence officers where appropriate. 
Generally speaking, more can be done to look at the limits that are imposed on the Apple and Pear Corporation. It has to be released from its limitations so that it can get into the business of showing real initiative so that this industry can gain a greater degree of prosperity than it has enjoyed in recent years. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 11 November 1973 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
What overseas loans have been entered into by the Australian Government, on what terms and commission, and for what purposes during the periods (a) 1 July 1976 to 27 November 1976, (b) 28 November 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (c) 1 July 1977 to date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) How many persons who, after receiving unemployment benefits, had those benefits terminated on the grounds that they were ineligible or received other social security benefits during (a) 1976 and (b) 1977. 
How many persons in this category were placed on sickness or invalid pension. 
-Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs ordered a full inquiry into an incident involving a government supporter attempting to bring goods into the country illegally in a Foreign Affairs bag? Can the Minister give a full report on this matter? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period: 
11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976  to  30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
2 ) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Environment. Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
-I can understand the dilemma of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  because we have this hotchpotch arrangement under which we get bottlenecks of legislation followed by gushes through the Parliament every now and then as a result of a very inadequately planned parliamentary program. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  spoke about the ad hoc manner in which matters are dealt with, and there has been ad hockery in this situation. The last consideration of the present Leader of the House in this Parliament is for the well-being of - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  ( Quorum formed). 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What foreign loans have been raised by Australian Government statutory bodies since 10 December 1975. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What foreign loans have been raised by the Australian Government since 10 December 1975. 
What are (a) the rates of interest and (b) terms of repayment of each of the loans. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) How many persons who, after receiving unemployment benefits, had those benefits terminated on the grounds that they were ineligible or received other social security benefits during (a) 1976 and (b) 1977. 
How many persons in this category were placed on sickness or invalid pension. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 197S to 13 December 1975, (b) 14December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
6 ) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
-The debate on the Commonwealth Banks Amendment Bill is, and I have no doubt will be, fairly non-controversial, because it is the attitude of the Opposition that the Government should be supported, aided and abetted to every possible extent in overcoming the malaise in business and the great difficulties that are being so widely experienced throughout Australia. I do not have great anticipation of significant results ensuing from this legislation, but hope springs eternal in the human breast. We have heard so much of Government promises in the past and we have seen so little manifestation of them. Of course, in recent times we have had the advice of the international monetary and trade organisations which have been looking at Australia and commenting on us. I refer to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the International Monetary Fund in particular. I suppose this legislation could be put up as response to the International Monetary Fund's recommendation of last weekend, which was to the effect that the developing countries should be taking some significant steps to stimulate the economy. So far we have heard nothing else in the way of a response to that call for activity. The recommendation applies to Australia as much as it applies to any other country. 
We have an appalling rate of unemployment in Australia which obviously affects the small business people as much as it affects the big business people. Who will go into business unless at the end of the line there is in evidence a buoyant consumer. Of course, while we have such an outstanding rate of unemployment that confidence and buoyancy will not be in evidence. That is also the case while we have the startling job vacancy figures that were released just a short time ago. There are 20,000 job vacancies in Australia and about 600,000 people available to fill them. One cannot help but feel that the small business entrepreneur not only will lack confidence but also will find that confidence will be denied him by those who have to support him. lt is as plain as a pikestaff that they have not been supported sufficiently by the traditional lending institutions. No doubt that is one of the reasons why this legislation has been introduced. There is a vacuum to fill. 
The old ebb and flow of the market place apparently is not working out too well because the Government does not have a fundamental enthusiasm about the Commonwealth Development Bank playing a bigger part than it has to. The Government has a tendency to minimise the role of the public authorities in this country. If there is some kind of profitability in giving a hand to a small businessman or a big businessman, the Government would see that role being carried out normally by the private sector. It does not want the Australian Industry Development Corporation, the Commonwealth Development Bank or anything else of a public character getting into the act any more than they have to. It sees these instrumentalities as being ones of last resort- something to call on when the other authorities are not terribly responsive. Of course, the plight of the small businessman, the entrepreneurial person who initiates the small business, is more serious today than it has been for a long time, as I will point out in a moment. 
I know that great play has been made of the Government's intentions in relation to this matter. It was the present  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  who said in November 1975: 
The tragic destruction of small business must end. We are determined that the progressive collapse of the nation's small businesses will be arrested. 
That was part of the ploy of that  Deputy  Prime Minister- he was not then the  Deputy  Prime Minister, of course; the Labor Government was in office- to win the support of the bedraggled small business people and especially the farmers whom the National Country Party traditionally let down, despite all the things that its members say about them. That comment was made in November 1975. The chickens have not yet come home to roost. The Government has not arrested this great problem in the small business area. So, this evening the Parliament has before it the Commonwealth Banks Amendment Bill, and only time will tell the extent to which the Bill represents pie in the sky. I see it as another little stanza, another bit of mouth to mouth resuscitation, just something to keep small businesses going, to keep the pot boiling, as it were, just to keep the propaganda going out, just to keep the carrot in front of the donkey a bit, if honourable members like. But when we come to measure the results of this legislation in three years' time or five years' time, if the present Government is still in office, I confidently predict that a great deal will be found wanting. 
Let me deal with the purpose of the Bill. Primarily its purpose is to remove the present restrictions on the lending activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank to enable it to lend to all kinds of businesses. We know that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  indicated in his second reading speech that businesses have to be viable. I suppose that is fair enough where a public instrumentality is involved. As I indicated, we wonder about the extent to which this legislation represents a gesture to the small business people and whether it will really be successful in resurrecting their enterprises. The main provisions of the Bill, of course, are in respect of section 72 which is to be found in Part VIII of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959. The Bill amends section 72 to enable the Bank to provide finance for the establishment or development of all types of business undertakings, particularly small business undertakings, which are described in sub-clause (3) (a) of the Bill and also to provide advice and assistance to the full range of business undertakings that will be eligible to borrow from it. That is covered in sub-clause (3) (b) of the Bill. 
I think honourable members will recall that in 1974 the Labor Government, under the Commonwealth Banks Act 1974, extended the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank to allow the Bank to provide finance for tourist development projects, especially smaller projects in selected areas. I am surprised that in the context of the second reading debate the Parliament and the people have not had the benefit of advice as to the stewardship of this Government in giving effect to that Act. We hear a lot of conjecture and contention to the effect that the tourist industry should be encouraged in Australia. We made it possible in 1974 for the Commonwealth Development Bank to do something about the tourist industry. I suggest that, although that objective is very much in keeping with the amending legislation which is before the House at the moment, there has been a lack of enthusiasm in relation to the amendments with which we are dealing now and that there is not much to show in terms of results from assistance given to the tourist industry. 
A subsequent speaker in the debate can pick me up if I am wrong in making this statement: It would have been appropriate for the Treasurer to have said in his second reading speech: 'In 1974 our predecessors extended the powers of the Commonwealth Development Bank in respect of an industry which is often languishing and we want to exhibit our enthusiasm by giving effect to that'. Not one solitary word has been said about that matter. Why is that so? There is not much to show in the report of the Development Bank because not much has been included there. I have that report before me at present. 
This Bill widens the lending activities of the Bank further by allowing it to go outside the rural, industrial and tourist sectors into new sectors, such as wholesaling, retailing, professional services, entertainment and the service industries generally. There is a great smorgasbord. There will not be much of an excuse when the Government comes to the reckoning table, say, on the eve of the next Federal election. I think that this will be a very good issue to resurrect at that time. 
The Bank will provide finance only if it is not otherwise available on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions. It will supplement and not compete with other banks or sources of finance. The Treasurer said in his second reading speech:   . . prospective borrowers need to establish, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that the finance sought is not otherwise available on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions. 
One wonders why we have a public bank so hobbled; when no one else wants the business the Commonwealth Development Bank can take it up. The Bank must satisfy itself that the business will be viable. This Government has never thought of putting the Commonwealth Development Bank into a virile competitive situation with the other banks. It is only when nobody else wants the business that the Development Bank will be able to offer its services, but then only to a limited extent. 
Before I lose sight of the objectives of the Bill, I point out that included in the other measures announced in October 1977 was the intention that the Development Bank be enabled to provide equity finance to small business. I have noticed- I do not think any honourable member will deny what I am saying- that this Bill does not implement that decision in any way. Possibly that matter is still under examination by the Government. Hopefully the matters concerning the prospects of assistance by the Australian Industry Development Corporation might also be the subject of a governmental announcement on some future occasion. 
Underlying this whole matter is the question of funds, because the sources of finance for the Development Bank in the past have been the capital market, the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the Commonwealth Government. The Treasurer stated in his second reading speech that the extent of additional funds required for the wider operations of the Bank is not yet known. None have been provided at this stage. Quoting the Treasurer's exact words, he stated: 
To what extent additional funds may be required for the Development Bank's entry into this wider field of operations cannot be determined at this stage, but the position will be closely watched. 
A previous Minister for Industry and Commerce was tantalised with this problem when he appeared on a  P.M.  program on 30 October 1970. He was reminded that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  had raised the matter of the tight monetary policy. The honourable member for Adelaide is consistent, is he not, because that is the very essence of the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition tonight. This whole objective can be made to materialise provided additional funds are made available to the Bank. The interviewer on the  P.M.  program on 30 October put this proposition to the former Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton, who will be going off to more embellished and hopefully rewarding fields. 
-I certainly hope he will have superior accommodation.  Senator Cotton  replied: 
You know, what you have to consider in this matter is that there is money in the Australian system. There is money in the savings banks, there is money in the SRD - 
That is, statutory reserve deposits-  there is money in the Reserve Bank. And in an emergency situation of gravity and this is being seen to be a situation of gravity, the Government has been able to find money and will be able to find money. Now  Mr Hurford  ought to know enough about monetary policy if he claims to be a shadow Treasurer not to ask lunatic questions. 
The honourable member for Adelaide is persisting, as we have seen in the amendment which has been moved tonight. Apparently in the interim  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton has not found the money; indeed, neither has his successor nor the Treasurer because we are still wallowing in this uncertainty. We have had the good intentions, but, as I indicated by reading from the Treasurer's speech just a short time ago, we do not know the extent to which the Development Bank is to be given the wherewithal to get on with the job. That is the very essence of the proposition which the Opposition is putting forward. 
I notice that on that same  P.M.  program a man who seems to be very involved in these matters, a  Mr Charles  Connolly of the Small Business and Self-employed Association of Australia, dealt with the point about money and taxation. He dealt also with a number of other points, but I shall not have time to deal with them.  Mr Connolly  said: 
Taxation is growing at a rate twice as fast as the retail price indices. It is having a disastrous effect on many facets  of lives  and I believe that what we might be seeing is a situation of putting a Band-aid on a man who is bleeding to death. 
That is what  Mr Connolly  thought about what the Government has done in terms of taxation to help the small businessmen and what it has done in terms of making funds available through the development Bank and the AIDC and all the other measures. As you know,  Mr Deputy 

 Speaker, the Labor Government did move on this matter. In May 1974 we established the National Small Business Bureau. Regrettably there has been this process of devolution, that is, of undoing what the Labor Government did. This Government wants to find its own way, but is has not really identified its own way. As long as it tips overboard the enactments of the Labor Government it seems to regard that as progress. 
This Government downgraded the National Small Business Bureau and made it the Finance and Small Business Branch of the Tertiary Industry Division of the Treasury. It is poked away in an obscure back cupboard or pigeonhole in a ministry which has virtually lost its significance to the small business people of this country. All this represents a very unhappy situation. As I look back I know that these are the facts of life: In the financial year 1976-77, according to the Australian Statistician, there were 1,270 business bankruptcies and 926 non-business bankruptcies, representing a total of 2,196 bankruptcies, which is near the record level. We are told that the current rate is that in the vicinity of 230 small businesses are failing each week. 
As I read through the report of  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton, the former Minister for Industry and Commerce, which I have quoted tonight, I can see the buck passing that he has engaged in in turning over to the States so many of the Commonwealth Government's obligations. In terms of the new federalism policy the Government has not given the States sufficient funds to enable them to make a significant contribution to the alleviation of problems in the small business area. As I look at these problems- there is no time to go through them- I realise that the Government has little more than some intentions. Whether they are good intentions only the passing of time will prove. Judging by the record of this Government, which already has had several years to give expression to those objectives so enthusiastically espoused on the hustings in 1975, 1 would say that, given time, it will prove to be a disaster. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
6) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period- (a) 11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What sum was spent by the Attorney-General's Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
2 ) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 21 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Federal funding has not been approved for the 2-year post service nurses' course leading to a degree in nursing at the Western Australian Institute of Technology (WAIT). 
Is the nursing degree program being conducted by WAIT the first post registration course of its kind in Australia. 
Have similar programs been planned for commencement in 1978 by the Lincoln Institute of Health Sciences, Victoria, which proposed degree courses in nursing administration and nursing education. 
Did the Commission on Advanced Education recommend approval of the nursing degree program at WAIT and was this recommendation rejected by the Tertiary Education Commission. 
Does the decision discriminate against the nursing profession by denying nurses access to higher education and the opportunity to upgrade, increase and improve their professional knowledge and skills. 
Is the decision of the Tertiary Education Commission at variance or in keeping with the attitude of the Government and is any Government initiative likely to occur which will have the effect of facilitating continuation of the courses both at WAIT and the Lincoln Institute. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
On what provision or provisions of the Australian Constitution did the Government rely to call out the troops following the Sydney Hilton Hotel bombing. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976,(c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977and(d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
2 ) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What is the (a) total area, (b) value and (c) value of improvements of the land used by the Department of Defence at the Holsworthy, Moorebank and Ingleburn areas. 
What would be the (a) advantages, (b) disadvantages and (c) estimated cost of re-locating these facilities in some suitable location outside the Sydney metropolitan area. 
What is the estimated cost of rendering the sites safe from the hazard of unexploded ammunition so that they could be used either for urban development of public recreation. 
Has consideration been given to acquiring and developing an alternate site or sites; if so, which areas have received consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
What sums were paid by the Schools Commission under each program for government and non-government schools and under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program for government schools in the Electoral Division of Hughes during (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) the period 1 July 1977 to date. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Have some New South Wales hospitals rejected on quality grounds use of the Australian produced nuclear byproduct, technetium-99 used to explore the spread of cancer in brain tumour patients. 
If so, are these rejections justified and what are the details. 
Have the hospitals concerned encountered any obstruction from the N.S.W. Health Commission or any other authority in their attempts to import a satisfactory substitute. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by the Department of Education on advertising and services during the period (a) 11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
6 ) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
Are multiple sclerosis patients subjected to particular financial hardship because they are not entitled to assessment through Medibank for necessary physiotherapy which they must undergo as part of their treatment for the greater part of their lives; if so, will the Government undertake to extend the basic Medibank cover for physiotherapy for these patients and for other patients whose ailments require physiotherapy. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that handicapped persons who are able to drive themselves to and from rehabilitation centres for treatment, have been denied tax exemptions on the purchase of their vehicles on the grounds that they do not use their cars for travelling to and from gainful employment; if so, does the Government agree that this inequitable situation should be amended so that handicapped persons able to drive are encouraged and assisted to purchase motor vehicles in order that they become self reliant, gain easier access to treatment and are better able to obtain gainful employment. 
If the Government accepts this proposition, when does it propose to act. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Has the waiting period for loans from New South Wales building societies recently been increased from three weeks to about six months? Does this reflect a serious fall in building society capital inflow following the marginal reduction in interest rates? What will be done to redress this situation? 
-by leave-I have not had the opportunity to read or to listen to the statement of the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay).  I know, of course, that it involves the very serious deficiencies in respect of Service housing in Australia and that there is a declared intention implicit in the announcement that has been made to investigate these matters. This is long overdue. My more contemporary experience of this matter is in respect of the acquisition of a large area of military land and the associated military housing in the HolsworthyMoorebank area, which is one of the substantial concentrations of military personnel in this country. I have been quite appalled to see the conditions under which servicemen live. In many instances the houses can be described only as huts. I have seen the deficiencies in terms of the scales and standards that are supposed to apply. In the Moorebank-Holsworthy and Anzac village areas the total army stock is 2,040 dwellings, 1,430 of which were obtained under Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement and 610 by direct Commonwealth provision. The 1,430 dwellings provided under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement include 810 constructed before 1 966, which require substantial upgrading, and 120 which require marginal upgrading. The balance is generally said to be in accordance with the scales and standards. 
Of the pre- 1966 houses all but 310 have been upgraded or are in the process of being upgraded. But in respect of* that category of houses there are 310 families who are living in the most disgraceful circumstances. The deficiencies are in regard to such matters as carports, lock-up sheds, paths and drive strips, clothes hoists, hot water systems and insect screening. I receive incessant complaints from the wives of servicemen there to the effect that they have to carry hot water, either from the kitchen to the bathroom or the bathroom to the kitchen. There are very serious hazards to their families. I believe that the conditions are so inadequate that I can only commend any initiative that is being taken to redress the situation. The Minister can be assured- indeed, the assurance was given by my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)-  that the Opposition will be applying itself to this matter with the utmost enthusiasm. 
I commend the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  for raising the matter of the damage caused by cyclone Alby. I do not think he quite reached the point of the issue that he was raising. The fact is that there is a vacuum in this country in the provision of effective disaster relief. I do not know whether it was the intention of the honourable member to point the bone at the Federal Government, State governments or local governments. I know that his intention was more in the way of seeking to get some redress and some compensation for the people affected. This is not an isolated case. The people of this country respond in a most spontaneous and generous way when disasters reach significant proportions. Notable, of course, is the Darwin disaster, the last report in relation to which was made available to us only this week. However, there are many instances of the type to which the honourable gentleman referred and about which other honourable members know. Those incidents which have occurred throughout the length and breadth of this country need effective accommodation, but they are not effectively accommodated under the insurance arrangements which exist in Australia today. We have had many assurances that consideration will be given to widening the disaster relief program. 
In the area north of Wollongong, for example, which is in my electorate, we have a very high incidence of land sinking and land slippage caused by geological faults and also by coalmining activities. Of course, the unfortunate people who are often involved in these situations are the people who have bought land in good faith from developers and estate agents. It has been land which has been approved by local authorities. These people have invested their life savings in their home. Of course, when the slippage occurs that investment is totally written off. I am talking about perhaps 30 or 40 cases which have occurred around my own region and in relation to which people have been unable to obtain redress from any authority at all. It is not the normal inclination of an ordinary home purchaser to insure against something like land slippage or land sinking. One does not normally take that into account. Since it is a disaster, I hope it will receive attention. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What has been his response to representations made to him on 28 October 1977 by the NSW Local Government Community Workers' Association in which concern and dismay was expressed about the drastic curtailment of funding for the following Government responsibilities: (a) welfare workers under the States Grants (Home Care) Act, (b) Family Law Court Counselling Service, (c) education programs, including after school care, child care and other family care programs, and migrant classes for adults, (d) health care services including community health centres, domiciliary care services and women's health centres, (e) unemployment and unemployment relief schemes, (0 housing, in particular housing for the aged and invalid people, (g) pension and benefit reductions in real values and proposed transfers of responsibility for these, (h) 470 community programs funded under the Australian Assistance Plan, (i) programs for the handicapped, (j) the Legal Aid Commission Bill, (k) Aboriginal affairs, (1) grant in aid services for migrants and interpreter services, (m) Australian Government printing services, (n) national co-ordinating bodies for youth affairs, (o) women 's refuges subsidies reductions and (p) Australian Bureau of Statistics processing. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) How many small businesses became bankrupt, made arrangements with creditors or were liquidated during (a) the years (i) 1975-76 and (ii) 1976-77 and (b) the periods (i) 1 July 1977 to31 December 1977and(ii) 1 January 1978 to date. 
How many taxpayers defined as essentially deriving their income from farming became bankrupt or made arrangements with creditors during the same years and periods. 
How many businesses essentially involved in farming became bankrupt or made arrangements with creditors during the same years and periods. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What assistance has been provided by the Bureau of Narcotics to the New South Wales Royal Commission on Drugs. 
Have any Commonwealth public servants and, in particular, officers of the Bureau of Narcotics, received any formal or informal instructions not to co-operate fully or provide unsolicited information to this inquiry; if so, what was the source, nature and justification for these instructions. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is the Government considering the reintroduction of a formal written test to determine citizenship applications? Would reintroduction of this test strengthen claims that the Government is operating a de facto White Australia policy? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975; (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976; (c) 1 July 1 976 to 30 June 1 977; and (d ) 1 July 1 977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for1 977-78. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
Are there any plans by the Government to: 
de-commission the HIFAR reactor and 
construct another reactor at the Australian Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Lucas Heights; if so, when will the Parliament be provided with full details of the plans including an estimate of the costs involved. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1 978: 
Has the Government given approval to any work or undertaking which would require the application of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947; if so (a) what are the works and undertakings and (b) when was approval given for each. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) What expenditure has been incurred by his Department for maintenance and improvements to existing domestic accommodation used by the Defence Services at the (a) Holsworthy, (b) Moorebank and (c) Ingleburn areas, since December 1975. 
By what percentage have the rents increased for the different categories of accommodation involved. 
How many houses have had running hot water both in kitchens and bathrooms separately installed after completion. 
How often are houses inspected for repairs and improvements. 
How many complaints have been received from servicemen and their families in relation to the standard of accommodation available. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
What has been the annual intake on a trade category basis of apprentices at Lucas Heights Atomic Research Establishment since the project 's inception. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) What concessions or assistance measures are provided for persons entitled to pensioner health benefits. 
In particular, what concessions or assistance measures are provided for the installation of hearing aid equipment on telephones. 
If no such concessions or assistance measures for the installation of hearing aid equipment on telephones are provided will the Government consider taking steps to provide concessions or assistance. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
Honourable members will recall that at the time of the Hilton bombing when the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting was taking place the Governor-General gazetted a minute on 14 February to the effect that the troops should be called in to serve the purposes of the Australian Government. Many people in our community contended that there was dubious constitutional validity for that action. Similarly, there was great concern that the matter was without precedent and that the decision was taken without any particular time or geographical limitations. That is to say, a martial law situation descended on Australia quite unexpectedly and could have prevailed for some considerable time. Everybody realises the necessity for adequate security in such situations. Since then we have had an inquiry in respect of the adequacy of our security in Parliament House and certain proposals have been made in connection with that. 
In this context I want to raise a matter of concern to me. At the funeral of  Sir Robert  Menzies last week, which I attended, I was very surprised to see the utilisation of Austraiian service personnel. I am not sure of the purposes for which they were utilised. I did observe that Army officers were used on traffic control, and presumably they were being used for the maintenance of security. I think it is very important for the House to know who requested, and on whose authority approval was given, for the use of defence personnel on that occasion. One wonders whether the Victorian Government conceded that the Victorian Police were inadequate in their capacity to control traffic or indeed to sustain the security that was necessary. One wonders whether the Victorian Government actually called for assistance from the Australian Government in this matter. I think it is important that we should know the provision under which serving personnel were utilised on that occasion. I think it is important for us to know the guidelines under which this kind of action might be taken in the future. 
There seems to me to be a tendency to .popularise this martial law type of practice. It is a very undesirable thing, even though some might say it is necessary to supersede the practices of ordinary Australian police force administrations and to utilise the armed forces. One wonders what the rights of police are in such situations, even in such mundane matters as directing traffic and the extent to which they are able to lay charges against people and to seek to substantiate those charges. I assure honourable gentlemen that discerning people in this country have watched the development of trends in this regard in other parts of the world. They view with the greatest disquiet the tendency on the part of the Fraser Government to utilise troops in what appears to be most unnecessary situations. I have no doubt in my mind that the police could have dealt adequately with traffic control and security at the funeral last week of  Sir Robert  Menzies. I am gravely concerned that this action was taken. I believe that either the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  should make a statement to the Parliament and to the people and indicate whether troops were required because of the inadequacy of established services and the extent to which this Government believes in involving martial law type situations in the future. 
-The Public Service Arbitration Amendment Bill which is before the House is in many ways the epitome of ruined industrial relations. It seems to me that this Bill typifies the reality of the situation that we have seen, namely, the total shemozzle of industrial relations in this country. When one takes into account that the great argument has been between the Commonwealth Government, on the one hand, and responsible and senior public servants, on the other, it must be regarded as a very great reflection on the part of the Government which often gives lip service to the principles of conciliation and the general concept and idea of effecting reconciliation rather than allowing the law of the jungle to operate in connection with industrial disputes. 
Of course, this Bill is the sequel to a long saga of disputation which dominated the media of this country for months in the latter part of 1977 and for months in the early part of 1978. Nobody knew where the consequences would finally lie, who was to be affected, what number of public servants would be denied the unemployment benefit and what number of people, especially amongst the unemployed, would be denied the benefit of the services which had been so effectively rendered by the people who had been dragged into this disgraceful dispute in such an ungainly and unreasonable way. I believe that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has a great deal of accounting to do in order to try to get off the hook, because he can be fairly and squarely indicted as having made a first class blunder, a belligerent blunder, in a situation which could and should have been resolved much earlier than it was. I have just received from the Parliamentary Library a great heap of newspaper clippings about this matter. I have selected some of them. An article in the  Age  on 18 February 1978, headed 'Jobs staff face dole', states: 
Staff standdowns loom in the Commonwealth Employment Service next week because of a two-month-old dispute over recruitment from outside the Public Service. 
The dispute is the result of a trade union ban on processing outside applications for CES positions following the Government 's decision late last year to expand CES staff. 
Of course, that followed from the Norgard inquiry and the general idea of upgrading the Commonwealth Employment Service. Of course, that was done in an indelicate way, as though it were designed deliberately to provoke an adverse reaction on the part of these senior public servants- people who had served the Government for so long. They were told that there was to be a very considerable expansion in the number of senior officers and that they were to come from outside rather than inside the Service. This Government, with its obtuse approach to employer-employee relations, apparently did not have the faintest idea or inclination that there would be some adverse reaction on the part of these career public servants who had devoted their lives to the Service. The fact that they might be disadvantaged, with no proper consultation and no negotiation taking place, and with some of the most responsible people in this country being provoked into what turned out to be an ungainly industrial situation, did not disturb the Government. On 24 February 1978 the  Sydney Morning Herald,  in an article headed 'NSW vote supports continued CES bans', stated: 
The CES employees, members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, are objecting to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations hiring employment officers from outside without giving preference to Government employees. 
The article could have read: 'Without even giving consideration to the capacities of Government employees'. The  Australian Financial Review  of 23 February carried the headline 'CES Dispute Deteriorates ' and stated: 
The Commonwealth Employment Service staffing dispute deteriorated yesterday with the Federal Government threatening to apply for de-registration of the major Public Service union on top of standing down a further 17 CES managers. 
The  West Australian  had the headline: 'Hundreds face stand-downs in CES row'. The headlines go on and on. Another one from the  Canberra Times  reads: 'Ultimatum to CES staff could force stand-downs'. An editorial in the  Canberra Times  carried the heading: 'Staff to work without pay'. Another one stated: 'Standdown Stand-off'. The headlines go on and on. Finally we get to the inevitable, what anybody could have told the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. If there was to be any settlement it would be because of the preparedness of the parties concerned to get into an effective conciliation system. This man and this Government extols the virtue of conciliation and arbitration processes for everybody else but demonstrate an incapacity to put their own house in order. The last headline I refer to is that of the  Canberra Times  of 17 March which stated: 'CES row back to Arbitration'. 
One can never cease to be amazed at the inability of the Government to react and operate reasonably in situations involving industrial disputations. I am not just talking about disputes with the Public Service. The old master-servant syndrome dominates the mentality of this squattocracy which is predominant in the Government ranks. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  goes to his seminars day after day armed with all the contemporary attitudes about employer-employee relationships, about worker participation, about profit sharing, about information sharing to ensure that employees can be guaranteed security in a stable industry and all the rest of it. He is involved in issue after issue in telling other people how to run their affairs. When the crunch comes these attitudes contradict the Government's basic philosophy. An employer-master domination and an employee servility typifies the Government's attitude. 
This Bill is to put the public servants in their place after they dare to seek a say on the issue of outside appointments which threatened the continued employment and promotion of senior officers- as if that was an unreasonable course to pursue. We know that the stage has been set for this kind of confrontation for a long time. Every time public servants take any kind of stance which is at all in accord with the dignity of an organised profession we have these threats. New legislation is brought in to compound the offensive and belligerent apparatus of the Commonwealth Government. I refer to the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation, to amendments to the Trade Practices Act and to amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which equipped the Commonwealth with power to move in even more ruthlessly and unreasonably than it has been able to do in the past. One can only regret that situation. 
I say to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, who is not an insensitive man, that somewhere along the Une something is wrong with the advice he is receiving. I do not think he could initiate such grotesque and belligerent attitudes on his own account. When one speaks privately to the Minister he talks about reasonable relations with workers. What then is it that causes Government members, in their corporate state, to bring down such pernicious legislation, as expressed through this Minister, which can have the effect, no matter what group of employees are involved, of bringing out only the worst in them. God, if it were not for the common sense of the Public Service organisations this legislation could have brought this country to its knees. I do not want to aggravate the situation. I simply say these words in the hope that they can bring about a saner attitude. 
The Opposition does not stand for stupidity. It does not stand for madcap attitudes in industrial relations. It is talking about the need for understanding, compromise and common sense. I know that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  comes in here and talks about the virtues in employer-employee relations in other parts of the world. He says that in Japan the employers virtually regard their employees as people whose welfare has to be safeguarded, people to whom there is to be a continuing and enduring obligation. All these beautiful phrases are mouthed, and yet when we come to a situation as fundamental as one which involves people being threatened with their employment, common sense just goes out of the window. 
The simple provisions of the Bill before us are threefold. It Will put the exclusive prerogative of the Public Service Board beyond doubt in matters of recruitment and promotions. It will quell the voice of public servants in such matters by closing off the role of the Public Service Arbitrator to whom Public Service employee organisations have previously had some recourse. That is the situation. The main provisions of the Bill are to this effect: The Public Service Arbitrator is precluded from altering or affecting recruitment into or promotion within the Public Service by an amendment to the definition of conditions of employment in the Public Service Arbitration Act. The power of the Public Service Arbitrator to order the standing down of officers or employees who are concerned in or affected by an industrial situation is made specific by the inclusion of a new paragraph. In other words, the power of the legislature wins the day. 
Despite the fact that the unions took their case to arbitration and established the validity of their claims, the Minister, who was quite incorrect in many of his utterances- if time permits I can establish this contention- is now going to disregard the fact that unions were right. This was established by the High Court of this country. He is simply saying that even if the unions were right the Government's will is still going to prevail because it will change the law to suit itself even in respect of unreasonable concepts. 
Let us see what the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association had to say in its submission to members of Parliament. Let me summarise it. The union referred to this long industrial dispute between the ACOA and the Austraiian Public Service Association on the one hand and the Public Service Board and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations on the other. The fact is that the conflict occurred over a Board proposal to recruit extra people from outside the Service. The union took the view that applications for promotion or transfer from serving officers, some with many years service, should be considered- that is all, considered. The union felt that qualifications and the suitability of those people who had been in the Service for a long time should be taken into account in respect of these appointments before a recruitment campaign was launched outside the Service. The two associations believed that a review process- that is their terminologyshould be established to allow the capabilities of long-serving public servants to be matched against those of the unknown raw recruits from without the Service. But they were confronted with the Board's flat refusal to discuss the issue. The union had put forward a comprehensive proposal on the occasion of the very first meeting on 17 November 1977. 
The irony of the whole situation is that the ultimate memorandum of understanding forced upon the associations, under threat of punitive action, on 1 March- that is, three and a half months later, after this grave dispute had taken its course, after there had been unemployment and anxiety and all the rest of it- was to the effect that there was to be no more than a variation of that original proposal. In other words, right at the start the union put up the solution that was ultimately accepted. Well may the Minister hang his head in embarrassment. There is no great hurry in the proceedings here tonight. There is not a lot of business before the House. We can confidently expect the Minister to stand up and defend his ineptness in this situation. The fact of the matter is that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations referred this matter to the Public Service Arbitrator for settlement. It is important to note that the Minister and the Public Service Board took the step of notifying the dispute to the Arbitrator. Of course, one would expect that in such a situation, when one looks for an umpire, when one looks for a referee, that the decision of the Arbitrator would be accepted by the person who had referred the matter. But that has not been the case. 
-You went to the umpire for a decision. 
-And they won, did they not? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order. 

 Mr LES JOHNSON I am not sure that you have. I will find the documentation relating to this matter, if not before I finish then in time to enable my colleague to handle it. If I am wrong about it I will certainly withdraw. One would certainly acknowledge that whoever did the referring adopted a sensible course of action. I am anxious to know what referring the Minister admits to. Was he just prepared to resort to a stand-off situation, to bluff them down? Did he make any conciliatory approaches in the situation? At least I offered him the virtue of accepting credit for taking this matter to the Public Service Arbitrator. He does not seem to believe that that is a reasonable thing to do. Let me tell the Minister that these matters have been the prerogative of the Public Service Arbitrator since the year 1 922, and that has been acknowledged. 
-The cases are stacked up here. The Minister is asking a technical question, but the case was No. 3 of 1922, the Australian Postal Electricians Union, claimant, against the Commonwealth Public Service Commissioner and the Postmaster-General of the Commonwealth. That was the case and the documentation is here. If the Minister does not know anything about this kind of disputation I will give him a very well indexed file. The Minister can see that some parts are underlined in red. I will not have the opportunity to read them but they are to the effect that the courts have decided on previous occasions, as they did on this occasion, that the right of appeal is fundamental. Does the Minister deny that that ought to be the situation, that there ought to be an appeal? Regrettably, I cannot put my hands on the documentation, which is so precise and so devastating in this respect. However, the High Court decided in these cases that an appeal is fundamental, and it overruled the Public Service Arbitrator who was taking the view that he had no jurisdiction in regard to appeals affecting the conditions of employment of these public servants. The Court has taken the view unanimously. Because the Court has taken the view unanimously that employees are entitled to appeal, the Government has now brought down this legislation to close off the options of those employees. As a government it can be overbearing and monopolistic, and it has done this so that senior public servants, who have been so indecently treated by this Government, can be pushed down further into a subjective situation. I believe that this Government stands indicted for the way in which it has brought the Public Service, which acts on behalf of the people of this country, into such serious and unnecessary disputation with the Government of Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
Do contingency plans exist for the possible event of an accident at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission establishment at Lucas Heights; if so, what are the details of the plans which are calculated to protect (a) workers within the establishment, (b) residents living within a radius of 5 miles and (c) residents living between S miles and IS miles from the establishment. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
With reference to the fenced area approximately 1 kilometre north-west of the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Lucas Heights, when were the signs proclaiming jurisdiction of the Atomic Energy Research Establishment and prohibiting public access erected. 
When was the area fenced. 
Is there any material considered dangerous or potentially dangerous to the public enclosed by the barbed wire fence; if so, what is the material and the quantity involved. 
Is the area under constant surveillance; if so, by what means and at what costs. 
5 ) What is the annual cost of maintenance of this area. 
Have tenders been called or any contracts granted for work to be carried out on the land; if so, what is the nature and purpose of the work involved. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
Has he determined that research and investigations, other than that associated with uranium and atomic energy, be carried out by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission under the Atomic Energy Act; if so, ( a ) what are the research projects involved and (b) what proportion of the annual budget of the AAEC is allocated to these projects. 
-The Housing Assistance Bill will have very important consequences for the people of this country. It is a Bill that provides funding and the principles for that funding for the next three years. But a leopard never changes its spots, and I think one can confidently predict that regardless of all the frilly-dilly contributions that are made to the debate and the smorgasbord of enticing potential that is outlined in the legislation, this LiberalNational Country Party coalition will show no more concern for the future housing needs of underprivileged people than it has in the past. The first thing to be said is that the great queue for housing assistance will only get longer, certainly not shorter, as a result of the passage of this legislation. When we talk of funding we can take the fundamental view that this is a very key issue. It is certainly not an issue that is defined in the legislation. At this stage no figure at all is involved in respect of the Housing Assistance Bill. There has been no Government commitment to any increase in funding welfare housing in real terms. 
The new agreement will result in rental increases for thousands of State housing authority tenants, some even to market rent levels. I do not think that anyone on the other side of the House would dare to contradict that contention. The admission of housing authority tenants on a priority basis according to the application of means test criteria has been abandoned in this agreement. The result will be that admission standards will vary from State to State. Relatively affluent applicants will be joined in competition for homes with the 100,000 applicant families whose incomes are under 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. The agreement which the Labor Government negotiated and which this agreement replaces had as a fundamental cornerstone the allocation of funds. After all, we are talking about subsidised housing funds, and the Labor Government was concerned to ensure that those funds went to the most deserving people in our community. I can tell the House from first-hand experience that our efforts to ensure the application of that principle met with great hostility in some of the States, which were anxious to widen the means test range of eligibility so that the more affluent could seek to qualify. The State waiting lists and waiting times obviously will get longer and longer as a wider range of income categories compete for probably the same and possibly a lesser amount of money. 
The new housing agreement is limited to a 3-year period rather than the usual 5-year period. That change could possibly disadvantage the States in their long-term planning. No good reason has been given for the traditional 5-year agreement being reduced to three years. Implicit in the new agreement is the abandonment of the special provision for pensioners by way of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act, which for many years has facilitated payment to the States of $ 10m per annum for the provision of pensioner housing. Hereafter pensioner applicants will take their chances in competition with all other applicants. Honourable members opposite do not seem to realise that it is possible for pensioner families to receive assistance under the provisions of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. That has always been the case, but the purpose of the States Grants (Dwellings for 
Pensioners) Act and the $10m made available annually was to meet the special problems of single pensioners, who predominate among pensioners with housing problems. One cannot be sure that that category of pensioner is going to receive the same consideration in the future. The fact is that pensioners will now go into the melting pot with everybody else. This is an enticement that is set out in a great schedule but in respect of which there is no guarantee of adequate funding. 
I turn now to the question of the sale of dwellings. By removing the restriction which prevented more than 30 per cent of dwellings being sold in any one year, the stock of inner city dwellings can be sold off, forcing housing commission tenants out to perimeter suburbs where long travel distances and expensive fares will become a very serious problem. I know that there are provisions in the agreement that require the authorities to use the proceeds obtained from selling a home for the acquisition of another home. There is no question about that; I understand it perfectly. But the regrettable fact is that the trend evidenced in recent years whereby housing commission tenants are forced out to places such as Mount Druitt, with 1 7 and 20 mile railway trips from the centre of the city, is going to continue. Often the people accommodated in the State housing commission homes are those who work in the city- the waitresses, the taxi drivers, the cleaners, the lift drivers. It is regrettable that we are adopting a course of action that will result in the selling oF of those homes. Of course, after they are sold, often they will be razed to the ground by the private entrepreneur and replaced by medium density dwellings that will be beyond the capacity of many low income people. 
I come now to the question of rental rebates. The rental rebates to be provided to families who are unable to meet the new requirement of market rent levels are undetermined, to the point where a generous policy can prevail in some States and insufficient support be given in others. In other words, the Commonwealth has virtually abdicated from expressing an effective policy in this regard. There has been some airy fairy talk about the Commonwealth seeking to come to an agreement with the States at some time in the future as to the level of support for the rental rebate scheme. But it is apparent that for some time to come there are going to be varying policies in the States, and I believe that that is an extremely regrettable development. I am fully aware of the relative lack of sympathy in evidence in some of the Liberal-National Country 
Party-dominated States as far as these matters are concerned. 
There are fundamental philosophical attitudes on questions of this kind. Many people on the other side of the House simply take the view that life was not meant to be easy, that it is your job to look after yourself and you cannot expect support from anybody else. Where governments are dominated by such a rental philosophy and no interest is evinced by including provisions in legislation of this kind, while the Government does not avail itself of the provisions of section 96 of the Constitution to make grants available on conditional terms, on terms of high principle, then we are going to find a degeneration of those great ideals that characterised the last housing agreement. I am simply making the point that I am concerned that no effective criteria are outlined in this legislation in regard to the rental rebate policies to be pursued in the various States. For that matter, neither is there any indication of the extent of support that the Commonwealth Government will give to those States which implement effective rental rebate policies. I shall deal now with the question of conditions of sale. Clause 26 (2) of the Schedule in the Bill states that the conditions of sale are such that assistance to purchase will be given only to the following people: 
. those persons who are not able to obtain mortgage finance assistance in the open  market  or from other sources. 
In other words, the State housing authorities become the lenders of last resort, but only to the extent of the funds available. I know the wellestablished mesmerisation of this Government. It slightly raises the amount in money terms, in many instances over and above the level of allocations in a previous year, but in real terms, taking inflation into account, undoubtedly fewer funds will be available for housing than in the past. 
Let us look at the question of interest charges. Loans made available under the home purchase assistance account through various agencies will involve high interest charges and in many cases will exceed the capacity of people to pay. An annual interest rate increase of 0.5 per cent will be made until purchasers will ultimately have to pay interest equal to one per cent less than the ruling bond rate plus a management charge, which, by today's standards, could take the interest rate to more than 10 per cent. That is the fact of the situation. Interest rates on home purchases under this agreement will go beyond 10 per cent and to a level in excess of the capacity of many people to pay. In contrast to what this Government is proposing in terms of this high interest rate policy, clause 20 (2) of the agreement which I negotiated on behalf of the former Labor Government stated: 
The interest charge which shall include an element for the cost of administration by the housing authority of the contract of sale to purchasers of dwellings shall not be less than 3 per cent per annum nor more than 534 per cent per annum. 
I believe we have gone backwards in respect of these concepts which I have outlined. We have had five years of great achievement in terms of the implementation of the five-year Commonwealth-State housing agreement. The Labor Government's achievement in housing reached a record level when the funding provided by it, the product of its economic policies, resulted in 16,153 housing completions in 1976. Of course in previous years completion levels were about 12,000 and 13,000 houses. In the face of very great difficulties the Labor Government had this record result. 
In terms of finance, total advances were running at the level of $168m under the LiberalCountry Party Government. In 1972-73 the Labor Government increased advances from $168m to $196m. In the next year advances increased to $2 18m and in 1974-75 to $385m. Then there was a decline to $364m; then an increase marginally to $375m; and in 1977-78 the figure is $390m which, although a larger amount than in the several preceding years, is a drop in real terms having regard to the savage rate of inflation in those periods. I know there was always the contention that Labor was never interested in home purchase but the home builders account provided finance for home purchase. In 1973-74, 10,053 loans were made; in 1974-75 the level was 13,218; and in 1975-76, when there was a change of government, loans nosedived immediately to 9,624 loans. The number has dropped consistently since then until the current year, 1977-78, in which the very pathetic number of 8,190 loans has been approved. So it goes on. 
If one takes a great schedule of figures one will consistently find this revelation: The Labor Government has shown a lot more concern about the housing needs of low income people in this country. The once achievable objective of owning one's own home has slipped further away from the means of the average Australian. Nowdays new home ownership is increasingly restricted mainly to the top 30 per cent or so of income earners, families with two incomes acceptable to lending institutions, and those people fortunate enough to inherit money or a substantial share in a family home. The causes of the problem can be identified as the high cost of lending, the drastic reduction in the Federal Government's home building program, inflationary interest rates and the difficulty of obtaining access to finance through traditional means of financing. 
In the last two years the Fraser Government has deliberately refused to stimulate activity in the building of new dwellings. It has failed to create jobs and to satisfy housing needs. This new Bill before the Parliament represents the only initiative taken by the Fraser Government in the housing area. 
The Government has not indicated the amount of money it intends to make available. The Fraser Government's record indicates that housing does not rate highly in its list of priorities. For example, the Government has dropped expenditure on housing, in real terms, by a mammoth 57 per cent in just two years. This means that the Commonwealth Government's outlays on housing, which include spending on defence service homes, housing for people in need, housing grants to the States, housing for Aboriginals and migrants, as well as expenditure on urban renewal programs and growth centres, has been virtually cut to the bone. The building industry is in a crisis. The number of new dwellings commenced during the March quarter 1 978 fell by 10 per cent compared with the previous quarter and by 23 per cent compared with the March quarter of last year. The Budget deficit of the Fraser Government is expected to exceed calculations by a mammoth $800m yet no extra spending has gone into housing to reduce the waiting lists for welfare housing and to create new jobs. More than 90,000 applicants in Australia are on lists waiting desperately for housing because the existing private enterprise system does not allow them to obtain finance. 
-More than 90,000 Australian family applicants. More than 43,000 Australians have lost their jobs in the construction industry in the last three years and no panacea has been proposed to come to grips with that unfortunate development. The difficulty of obtaining access to finance through traditional means can best be illustrated by the following: In 1970 the average price of a house and land was $15,500 and average weekly male earnings were $81.10. The maximum loan available, based on the income of the borrower, varies from institution to institution and according to the duration of the loan. But if the weekly repayment was not to exceed 30 per cent of take-home pay, $11,500 was the maximum loan available, leaving a balance of $4,000. By 1977 the average price of a house and land had risen to $47,300 and average male weekly earnings to $183.40. On the same basis, $25,500 would be made available, leaving a balance of $2 1,800. The clear fact is that housing is getting beyond the reach of the people more and more as each day goes by. So the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement looms up more significantly as the only means by which the housing needs of the people can be met. In those circumstances one can only be disappointed by the terms of this agreement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Baillieu)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I have listened to this debate and I feel that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  put an entirely incorrect emphasis on and deliberately misinterpreted the provisions of the legislation that are under review. I believe that he misrepresented the attitude expressed by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The honourable member for Reid has a reputation throughout this country for consistently demonstrating concern for the preservation of Australia's culture and for the wellbeing of the Aboriginal people. He certainly demonstrates regard for the quality of the reserves in the Northern Territory. On previous occasions the honourable member for the Northern Territory has conceded the great merit of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. In fact other honourable members present in the chamber at this moment could vouch for me when I say that at meeting of committees of this Parliament at which evidence has been given, he has eulogised the work of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
In the clause which is before us at present, we simply have a prohibition on the Commonwealth moving in with its National Parks and Wildlife Service without having proper regard for the consent of the Territory Parks and 
Wildlife Service. The honourable member for the Northern Territory ought to know that there is a capacity on the part of those two authorities to work together. If there is no capacity for them to do so, this legislation is without any merit at all. It seems to me to be useless for the honourable member for the Northern Territory to stand up here, deliberately disparaging the quality of the National Parks and Wildlife Service and those officers who loyally devote themselves to the fulfilment of that service. Their obligations in the future will be even greater than they have been in the past. I think it will be an extremely bad start to this legislation if those officers are to receive this kind of discouragement and this kind of disparagement. I ask the honourable member to reconsider his attitude. There are enough problems with regard to the clauses of this legislation, which honourable members have bypassed to some degree because some of the points were raised in connection with the previous legislation, the Environment Protection ( Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. 
I refer honourable members to a technical point. I will not belabour it. The wording of amendment 7 (b) is as follows:   . . a report specifying the alterations and setting out any views in respect of matters to which the alterations relate expressed by the Director- 
It is not even grammatically correct. It seems to me that, after the word 'relate ', the word ' as ' has been left out. If that word were inserted the subclause would read:   to which the alterations relate as expressed by the Director- 
They are very crudely and hurriedly drawn up amendments, no doubt moved by some wellintending senator, but the Government has got itself into a great mess with this conglomeration of legislation because it is so desperately anxious to run roughshod over the Aboriginal people, and over the Territory Wildlife Service or the Commonwealth National Parks and Wildlife Service. The Government would not care what got in the way; it just wants to reef that uranium out of the ground as quickly as it possibly can. 
Now I want to refer to amendment No. 8. Here, in my view, is one of these very unworkable provisions. It says in part:   the Director shall, from time to time, consult with, and have regard to the views of, the Territory Commission . . . 
The Territory Commission here means the Territory Wildlife and Conservation Commission. So we have two authorities at work here and doubtless they can be authorities that are jealous of each one's particular role in respect of these functions. The same kind of problem emerges,  Mr Chairman,  as you would be well aware, in amendment No. 1 1 where once again we have this terminology. In this case provision is made for the Government of the Commonwealth from time to time to consult with and have regard to the views of the Administrator of the Northern Territory in relation to the performance of functions and the exercise of powers under this Act. It just seems to me that we have provisions here that are quite unenforceable, quite a ridiculous bit of terminology setting out a set of intended circumstances which cannot possibly eventuate in any effective way. 
It would make sense to me if in respect of this process where we have to 'consult with and have regard to'- but probably not really take any notice of the views of the other authority- we might start with some kind of register as to what kind of topic is going to be discussed. Perhaps there ought to be some process where one identifies the points that are at issue. It would make some sense to me if one even recorded the conversation. But I think we will have this great ambiguity. One authority will be contending that it was raised and the other will be saying it was never raised. One authority will be saying that this view was put and the other one never registered that it was put. 
So there will be, I believe, a running sore in effect- an unending wrangle between these authorities. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  has raised this previously in the course of the evening. One can establish quite easily what will happen in giving effect to all this. There will be consultation but there is no properly defined requirement as to how one has regard for the things that have been raised. 
I believe that the Minister ought to go away and take a look at this legislation/To my mind, it is the most mangled and the most meaningless legislation, that has ever been brought into the Parliament since I came here 23 years ago. All it demonstrates is the incessant desire of this Government to get on with the business of selling and hawking uranium around the world, regardless of the consequences. I think a very serious likelihood is that we will develop bad relations between Commonwealth authorities and Territory authorities, and I for one regard that as a bad thing. 
I am sure the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would readily acknowledge that I, like him, have spent a great deal of time in consultation with Northern Territory authorities. I am not one who recklessly sets aside the views and attitudes that they have, but I am very concerned to have regard for the possibility that at this time when we are talking about Statehood, when we are talking about handing over or expanding the powers of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the Government should bring in such sloppy legislation as this. 
-You do not even know what it is about. You have spent the night in some bemused state - 
-I do not want to hold up the Committee. It seems to me that the Parliament is degenerating. I know that the Parliamentary Draftsmen cannot be blamed for the quality of this legislation. It was taken away and amended in another place. Many amendments have been made to the Bill which has already been dealt with here tonight. This Bill has 12 amendments. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  has come into the House without any proper exposition. The only instruction he really understands about the amendments to this Bill that have come from the Senate tonight is that he has to get them through before the House rises. They are his riding instructions. As one concerned for the environment, concerned for the Aborigines and concerned for the relevant government instrumentalities I indict the Minister as being ministerially responsible at least for the most inadequate legislation that has come into this Parliament for many years. 
I listened respectfully to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  I believe that notwithstanding his inadequacy, which is represented by his very short term of experience as a Minister, he has made quite a good fist of things. It is true, as he said, that the Opposition tried to co-operate, not in getting this legislation through the Parliament but in an attempt to make it respectable and to give the Commonwealth something on which to hang its hat. A great schedule of amendments was moved. They concerned the establishment of an advisory council. We attempted to define the advisory council and things of that kind. We sought to find not just a power on the part of the Commonwealth, but a recognition of the sovereignty that the States have in this matter. 
I do not wish to speak for the 10 minutes that is available to me at present; I just want to bring the Minister to book very quickly. I suppose the Minister would have heard of the Constitutional Committee of Review which operated many years ago and which was set up by the Menzies Government to provide guidelines for future governments as to the need for constitutional review. The Minister would be fully aware of that, I am sure. In fact he is nodding his head to indicate that he has. The Committee had as ex officio members the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. In addition, the following members comprised the Committee:  Mr Calwell, Mr Downer, Mr Drummond, Mr Hamilton, Mr Joske, Mr Pollard, Mr Ward  and  Mr Whitlam.  They are all my contemporaries. I think their parties chose them because of their constitutional capacities. 
They made a great number of recommendations in several reports. I shall tell the Minister of their recommendations in respect of nuclear energy. However, I do not need to do much more than remind him that the Constitution was drawn up before there were many issues which are now regarded as contemporary, every-day matters in evidence. For example, the Wright brothers would never have discovered aeroplanes. In my electorate the Hargraves were experimenting with aircraft well before the Constitution was drawn up. 
-I do not think the Committee needs to be reminded that we are talking about the constitutional obligations and the constitutional rights that the Commonwealth has in regard to nuclear codes. I was simply making the point that just as civil aviation was not covered constitutionally in 1901- the time when the Wright brothers were experimenting with aeroplanes- neither was nuclear energy. The Committee to which I have referred and which was the preferment of this Parliament and which had as ex officio members the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, came to certain conclusions. It may be that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has greater concepts than this Committee had about this matter. Let me tell the Minister what the Committee had to say. It said: 
The growth of nuclear physics making possible the application of nuclear energy for practical purposes is a phenomenon of the present century and, alone, this would explain the absence of any reference to it in the Commonwealth Constitution. 
That was the first thing that was said unanimously. There was no reference to this whole question of nuclear energy in the Commonwealth Constitution. Yet the Minister believes that the Commonwealth is adequately clothed in respect of these matters. At clause 1 1 8 of the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, brought up and ordered to be printed on 1 October 1958, the Committee said: 
By reason of its various constitutional powers, notably with respect to defence and overseas trade, the national Parliament is not without some effective legal powers at the present stage of nuclear development in Australia. Expected developments in the use of nuclear energy for constructive and destructive purposes will, however, reveal serious deficiencies in Commonwealth legal power, particularly if it should be sought to promote a self-contained integrated nuclear power industry serving the needs of industry and national development as well as defence. 
Clause 1 1 9 of the report states: 
It seems that the Commonwealth Parliament has insufficient legislative power to make proper provision for the protection of the health and welfare of the community as a whole from dangers which can arise from the use of radioactive materials and isotopes. So the Committee recommends that the Commonwealth Parliament should be empowered by Constitutional amendments to make laws with respect to the manufacture of nuclear fuels and the generation and use of nuclear energy and to iodising radiations. 
I am simply saying to the Minister that these are the comments of a constitutional committee made up of the best legal brains in this Parliament, including the former Prime Minster,  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies; the late Arthur Calwell; a former Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam and others, including some who are in the Senate at present. There were many dissentions to the generalisations of this report, but none in respect of the matter to which I have referred. This was a committee set up by a government of the Minister's own political persuasionpeople of his own political ilk- who told the government of the day that it had no constitutional prerogative in this matter. The Minister knew of this all the time as did his colleagues, but they sought to come in on the grouter. The Government tried to be sneaky about it. It was so ravenous in its attempt to reap the profits of uranium it did not care whether the matter concerned Aboriginals, the environment, the States or anything else. The report of the Constitutional Review Committee of this Parliament warned the Government that it would be stripped of its constitutionality on this matter. Yet the Government dared to bring up this whole business before the States. The Government has been rebuked very mildly both by the States and by the Senate. It still knows that its legislation is useless, ineffective and innocuous. 
In other words, what it all amounts to is that the Government is comprised of a bunch of crooks just coming in on the grouter. The Government has no regard for the States, sovereignty, decency or anything else. It simply regards it as political expediency to reap the uranium out of the ground. This hallowed document which was the product of the best brains in the Parliament that have prevailed since I have been a member of this place is just thrown on to the rubbish dump. That applies also to the words of wisdom of  Sir Robert  Menzies and people such as  Senator Wright  and the other revered people- the best brains of the Country Party, the Labor Party and the Liberal Party. I put it to the 
Minister that the Government is making a mockery of the whole deal. It should have sought a recognition from the people of this country of the emerging development of uranium. The Parliament needs to go to the people to seek an understanding of these things. But the Government is not concerned about the understandings of the people. It is concerned with the get-rich people who will rip off the country by the exploitation of uranium. That is all this legislation is about. The Government tore up this report. I might as well tear it up too. It does not matter. The history of this Parliament does not matter. The Constitution does not matter as long as the American exploiters can make their money out of uranium. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) When is it expected that a formal report will be provided by the medical team  from  the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine at Sydney University which undertook an analysis of medical surveys which have been in progress for several years into the health of workers at Lucas Heights Atomic Research Establishment. 
) What are the terms of reference of the survey. 
How many employees have been examined. 
What is the nature of examinations undertaken. 
Who comprised the panel of experts which initiated the survey. 
Have individual workers been advised of the results of medical examinations and referred where necessary for specialist examination or treatment. 
Have the examinations revealed any evidence of radiological contamination. 
-My queston is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. I refer to the speech prepared by the suspended Finance Minister and delivered on his behalf to the Australian Finance Conference last Monday. Did that speech have Government approval? Did it detail and accurately reflect Government Budget deliberations? 
-The Opposition regrets that the people of the Northern Territory have not been more effectively consulted in this matter. My colleague the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  has proposed a significant amendment to that effect. I have been interested in listening to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  having spent many many days with him in the Northern Territory, probably in some 30 to 40 visits to the Northern Territory over the years as members of committees associated with Aboriginal welfare and public works. Indeed, as a former Minister for Housing, Minister for Construction and Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I naturally maintain a keen interest in the development of the Territory and in the rights of the people who live there. The  Canberra Times  on 13 March this year had an editorial headed 'Haste in the North'. We know, of course, that comparable considerations to the claim for self-government in the Northern Territory have been associated with the Australian Capital Territory for quite some time. In this article, which is headed 'A matter of choice', the editor of the  Canberra  Times said: 
The most curious pan of the financial arrangements agreed to in principle as the foundation of self-government in the Territory is that self-government will come before the Commonwealth Grants Commission has completed its examination of the financial viability of a self-governing Territory based on expected receipts and expenditures. The outcome of this assessment will determine in some degree the level of continued Commonwealth support. It would seem then that a commitment to the self-government scheme as currently presented would be a less than business-like transaction . . . Territorians are not sure that they can alford self-government. 
A great deal of the conjecture that has gone on in the Territory and in this debate is speculation about whether the Territorians will be financially better or worse off. It is interesting to note that in 1974-75 there were 25,047 taxpayers in the Northern Territory who contributed $32.4m in the form of taxation. In the Australian Capital Territory, which has not made the same progress towards self-government, there were 79,406 taxpayers and they paid tax amounting to $ 122.3m. When we take into account income tax and company tax the comparison is to this effect: The Northern Territory paid $37.3m and the Australian Capital Territory paid $ 133.7m. Of course, there is a very great gap or deficiency between the figure which the Northern Territory contributes- $37.3m- and what it actually costs to run the Territory. According to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  Commonwealth outlay for the Territory was $ 193 m, so it is not surprising that the editor of the  Canberra Times  said that the 'haste in granting self-government for the Northern Territory is surprising'. In the editorial he went on to say: 
In view of all this, the demand of Labor in the NT that the Territorians be formally asked to say whether they agree to the financial and political arrangements proposed seems to be eminently reasonable. 
He went on to qualify his case by saying: 
It is not to argue whether a referendum should be held to decide whether self-government is wanted or not. In a democracy self-government is both a right and a responsibility that cannot be shirked. But what form it shall take and how it will be financed is essentially a matter of choice by the people themselves. 
That editorial very much puts the issue on the line and, as honourable members would have noted, it upholds the view taken by the Australian Labor Party. There have been all kinds of anxieties expressed, as the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  would acknowledge, about the financial dilemma with which the Territory might be confronted in the near future and in the medium and longer term. Recently a Bill was passed in the Territory to put an extra levy, a 1.25 per cent turnover tax, on bookmakers in the Northern Territory. We read that the Northern Territory Administration wants gambling casinos built at Darwin and Alice Springs and that the Northern Territory Executive has begun advertising for people interested in running casinos in these centres. The Northern Territory is supposed to be going after the gambling tourist trade in Australia and South East Asia. We have heard such comments as the Northern Territory perhaps becoming Australia's Monte Carlo, that there will be Northern Territory bingo budgets and that we will see poker machines in Kings' Hall. Apparently the administration there has quite a high expectation of revenue being raised from gambling. I do not regard that as a satisfactory way of launching the Northern Territory into selfgovernment and the longer term objective of statehood. 
The Northern Territory population is very small. There are about 105,000 people in the Territory at present which is equivalent to twothirds of the populations in the electorates of Hughes, which I represent, and Cook, the neighbouring electorate. So, obviously, to think of statehood is a little premature at the present. Distances travelled in the Territory are vast and the consequent structure costs are very great. The cost of housing, electricity, roads and communication is increasing in sparsely populated areas. This Government's financial commitment to the Territory has declined and, according to the figures of the Commonwealth Statistician, made available through the Parliamentary Library, in constant price terms, expenditure fell from $353.3m in 1975-76 to $306.7m in 1976-77. The intention of the Fraser Government is to reduce even further its financial commitment to the Territory which will place increased burdens on the Territory which will have to seek elsewhere funds necessary to maintain expenditure on roads, schools and communication. This outlook is ominous for the Territorians. 
The Minister has indicated that the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Territory will be significantly no better for the Territory than the existing arrangements are for the States. If in the past CommonwealthState financial arrangements have not been satisfactory, the position of the States under the new federalism policy of the Fraser Government is worse and the reason for this is simple. Under the new federalism policy pressure is placed on the States, and will be placed on the Northern Territory, either to impose a double tax on residents or to increase the revenue obtained from State sources of taxation. In his statement on 14 September last, the Minister said: 
Consideration will be given to the possibility of the Northern Territory government having access to revenues from a Commonwealth income tax surcharge within the Northern Territory on the same basis as the proposals under Stage 2 of the tax sharing arrangements with the States. 
Of course, that is simply the option of double taxation and, not surprisingly, many people in the States and in the Northern Territory have expressed their horror at the prospect of double taxation and its imminence. However, if this option is not taken up by the Northern Territory Administration it will be left only with the alternative of increasing the revenue obtained from State sources of taxation. 
The Federal Government has indicated that it will hand over to the Territories the power to increase payroll tax under the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill, one of the 
Bills being debated at present. I believe that payroll tax is a regressive tax. The legislation provides that the Territory will be able to levy its own tax and in relation to work completed in the Territory Commonwealth payroll tax will not be payable. Payroll tax should be abolished because it is a tax on work and operates as a force against the creation of employment opportunities which it is so important to sustain in the Territory. Under this legislation the Fraser Government shows that it has no intention of removing payroll tax. The legislation also serves as a reminder that the financial arrangements which the Commonwealth has in mind for the Northern Territory are such that the Northern Territory may well be forced to use this regressive tax. Another source of revenue with which to sustain the standard of living of Territorians and to pay for the cost of improving the Territory would be a levy or one of the other State controlled taxes which would flow from the administration and control of the resources, particularly the mineral resources, of the Territory. Other States, such as Queensland and Western Australia which, like the Territory, have smaller populations, great resources and vast areas to administer, have used this approach. The result has been that 82 per cent of the mineral resources of Queensland and 49 per cent of the mineral wealth of Western Australia are now foreign owned and controlled. 
The reason for this result is that the State governments are more concerned with immediate State issues and do not take a longer term view on the exploitation of Australian resources which, after all, belong to all Australians and not just the privileged few who live in the resource rich States. The political philosophy of the governments of Western Australia and Queensland is nothing more than one of expediency, and when matched with the philosophy of the central Government, with a similar approach, it amounts to a prescription for national disaster. As a nation we have sold our future and gained little in return. There are great lessons to be learned in this as far as the Northern Territory is concerned. Notwithstanding our vast mineral wealth, unemployment is at record levels, the economy is stagnant and the rate of inflation in Australia is higher than rates in comparable OECD countries. Non-existence of a national resources policy based on Australian ownership and control, when coupled with the pressure of inadequate Commonwealth Territory financial arrangements may, as in Queensland, lead to the loss of equity in Australian resources. 
Foreign interests, whether other nations or national corporations, have less trouble exacting better conditions, for them, from our States which do not have the financial muscle of the Commonwealth. Our resource rich States are being picked off by overseas interests to the extent that, as a nation, we are confronted with the absurd situation where the resources of one State are undercutting the resources of another in international markets. Let me give an example: The foreign-owned Utah coal company in Queensland is undercutting the price obtained for New South Wales coal on international markets. The mining strategy of that company is to exploit only coal that can be obtained by the open cut method at the expense of other seams further down. The Northern Territory cannot be allowed to be placed in a financial disadvantage which will lead to exploitation of this type. 
Generally speaking the Labor Opposition is for devolution of power in the Northern Territory. Government and eventual statehood should be given on the basis of fiscal support. There were signposts put up to that effect by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory which reported to the Parliament on 26 November 1974. My colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was the  Chairman  of that Committee which provided such valuable guidance as to the way the Government should proceed. One of its recommendations was to this effect: 
The Committee does not recommend the transfer of responsibility for all 'State type' functions to the Territory Executive but proposes that functions of local significance be transferred as soon as possible and that for the time being functions of national concern be retained by the Australian Government. The proposals of the Committee are, in fact, that all 'State type' functions be transferred to the Territory Executive except that major functions such as rural land, mining, education, health ... be retained by the Australian Government and other major functions such as roads, fisheries, national parks and the Police be shared. 
The timetable for the transfer of functions disclosed by the Minister in his speech of 14 September indicates that the important areas of education, land administration, mining service and administration, health services, roads and transport services are to be effective from 1 July 1979. 1 believe we have to be very careful in the implementation of the timetable to ensure that responsibilities are handed out to the Territorians comparable with the Commonwealth's capacity to ensure that the Territory is not financially disadvantaged. 
Self-government has been the objective of the Labor Party for many years. Over 20 years ago, in 1947, the Chifley Government first established the Northern Territory Legislative Council. In 1974 the Whitlam Government created the first fully elected Legislative Assembly. The Labor 
Party has a great sense of history and responsibility about this matter. It is very concerned that the impetuous way by which the matter has been approached by the Government can create great financial problems and cause the progress of the Northern Territory to be impaired. For that reason I strongly commend consideration of the amendment which has been moved, which would ensure that the people of the Northern Territory would be treated in a more responsible way and treated as responsible people, so that they would be given the opportunity to express their views as to the rate of progress that should be made in the objective of providing effective self-government in the Northern Territory. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Everingham's amendment)  stand part of the question. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, as has been indicated in this debate the Opposition is not at variance with the principles - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Original question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
Has the Government completed the document entitled 'A plan to cope with Accidents at the Research Establishment' referred to in the answer to question No. 174  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, page 2S44); if so, (a) when will this document become available to the Parliament and (b) will the document be available for distribution to employees of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and to residents living within a prescribed distance from the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Lucas Heights. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What (a) local government rates and (b) ex gratia payments in lieu of rates are paid to (i) Liverpool, (ii) Sutherland and (iii) Campbelltown Councils, N.S.W., in respect of land held for Defence purposes. 
-Can the Minister for Defence repudiate General Stretton 's claim that his conversation with the Chief of the General Staff was secretly recorded and that the tape was tampered with in Watergate fashion? Does the Minister approve of the practice of recording the conversations of senior officers? Does he believe that the use of such tapes should require the consent of the parties concerned? 
-I will be very brief in my remarks. I want to say as the Opposition Whip and as one who supported this general idea in the Australian Labor Party meeting that as I see the position, the Opposition is being very co-operative. I hope that the cooperation we are extending will be acknowledged and will receive some kind of response from honourable members opposite. I have heard the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and other honourable members talk in such a cooperative way about the processes of the Parliament and the way in which we should all work happily and harmoniously together. I have no doubt that a lot of people outside the Parliament who support my Party will take the view that we are bending over backwards to make this system work- a system in which many of these people have lost faith. They will believe that the Labor Opposition is a lot more co-operative about facilitating the work of the Parliament today, in the lifetime of this Government, than was the Opposition when the Labor Party was in office. It seems to me that we are being very fair in this matter. We are hoping to-- 
-The point I made when the matter was before our party meeting was that a great deal of legislation and a great variety of topics are coming before the Parliament now. This was not the case in bygone days. An enormous human resource needs to be accommodated and there is a need to change the system. We acknowledge all the difficulties and problems involved. I just hope that there might be some recognition on the part of the Government that an element of co-operation is in evidence at present which was not in evidence in the past. I hope that there will be some positive response to this. I hope that the Government will not take fine points- under the Standing Orders it is possible to take fine points. No doubt the Government will say that we have had an opportunity to thrash out issues in the legislation committees so why do we continue the debate in the House et cetera. In view of the tolerance which has been displayed by the Opposition I make the point now, as we are in an experimental period - 
-We are in a friendly mood indeed. Under these circumstances, I make the point that I hope that our situation will be understood. The procedure is under review. There will be a day of evaluation and the chickens might come home to roost if the Government exercises the tendency it often displays to take advantage of the good offices of the Opposition. 
-In the very near future Botany Bay in Sydney will become a battleground as a by-election takes place following the retirement of  Sir Eric  Willis. As a Federal member from that region with an electorate bordering on Botany Bay, I want to sound to honourable members who are listening in the House tonight and to whoever might read the  Hansard  record of the debate just a word of counsel and warning about the very grave consequences which are at stake in this election campaign. In recent times we have heard from the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  a contention that the State Government has made a mistake, that the State is suffering from an inability to export coal because of the Government's failure to develop Botany Bay. I am sure that that attitude would be echoed by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  who I see in the House at present. 
It is true that there is a bottleneck of coal. The ships are stacked up outside Port Kembla, another area which is a neighbour to the electorate which I represent. Of course, this situation is related to the fact that there is a crisis in the steel industry. Instead of coal being used for steel production in Australia a great effort has been made to stimulate the export of coal and to upgrade its export from this country. Naturally, the port facilities are maximised in their utilisation. 
I make the point that it is the Liberal Party in New South Wales- I do not say the Liberal and National Country parties because the National Country Party does not know what the matter is all about- which has taken a very deliberate decision in respect of this matter. The Liberal Party in New South Wales is the firm upholder of the idea that Botany Bay can be sacrificed and jettisoned as if there is no other plan. I want to sound out some of the consequences. If the byelection takes place and brings about a result which is anti-Labor or anti-Wran it could be regarded as an imprimatur to go on with the development of Botany Bay as a coal loading port. That is not begging the question at all, as I think the honourable member for Macarthur and the honourable member for St George who sit opposite will agree. 
There will be three storage silos, each with a capacity of 47,000 tonnes. Eventually 35 silos will be stacked up in Botany Bay, each as high as 17-storey buildings. They will be serviced by 23 trains with open waggons each day. Open elevated wharf conveyors will pour coal at the point of discharge at the rate of 8,000 tonnes an hour or 25 million tonnes a year. There will be a heavy emission of coal dust over the St George area and, indeed, over parts of the Sutherland Shire, depending on how the wind is blowing. There could be intolerable noise, possible disruption of rail passenger services and the like. This is the real issue which is at stake in the State election which is to take place there in the very near future. 
I want to let the people know that it is the Australian Labor Party which is saying that Botany Bay has been ruined too much already with the runways, the development of the oil refinery facilities and all the rest. It is a little Mecca for the people from the great surging metropolis of Sydney. For God's sake, save what is left of it. The Liberals in the St George electorate are anxious to make a quid for the people who buy out Australian coal reserves and are prepared to jettison any bit of Australiana. I am simply making the plea to the parliamentarians here and to the electorate that they might have regard to the fact that Botany Bay was the birthplace of this country. We do not want the natural features which are left and the very nice bit of suburbia which is the St George area and the Sutherland Shire around Botany Bay to be destroyed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General 's Department been notified  by the Department of Social Security of any submissions from the Victorian Council for Handicapped Readers regarding provisions of the Copyright Act and the reproduction of literature and dramatic works for the blind and disabled without infringing copyright; if so, what action does the Government propose to take on this matter? 
Can the Attorney-General say what OECD Nations provide for reproductions of published works for blind and disabled persons without infringement of copyright? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What was the cost to the Commonwealth of transport for the weekend of 22-23 October 1 977 for (a) the then Minister for Industry and Commerce and staff, (b) the Minister for Transport and staff, (c) the Minister for Employment and 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by the Department of Social Security on advertising and services during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d)l July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
Do procedures for land resumption by the Commonwealth: 
provide for adequate notice to be given with the right of public objections, 
ensure that the same rules apply no matter what authority is involved or for what purpose the land is acquired, 
provide for prompt payment of compensation and, where there is a dispute, part payment for so much of the claim not contentious as soon as possible after resumption, 
provide for payment of fair and reasonable interest from the date of resumption to the date of payment, 
provide assistance to dispossessed home owners to re-establish themselves in reasonably comparable accommodation, and 
provide for the right of objection at the planning stage so that when a proposal to acquire land for public purposes is made it is in fact still a proposal. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Are there investigations in hand for the acquisition of a major training area in New South Wales to supplement existing ranges at Holsworthy, NSW and Enoggera and Townsville, Queensland. 
If so, (a) will it decrease the use of Holsworthy by the Department of Defence as a field firing training base and (b) what measures does the Government propose to take to ensure that noise pollution by military training activities in the Holsworthy area is reduced. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period: 
1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975; 
14December 1975 to 30 June 1976; 
1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977; and 
1 July 1977 to date. 
) What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1 977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
With reference to the statutory declaration of  Mr Geoffrey  Nicoll relating to Lockheed Corporation Sales in Australia, is the Minister able to say who were the Government senators who in 1 976 called on the senior Australasian Sales Manager for Lockheed,  Mr Peter  Mingrone of Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles, previously of Hopetoun Avenue, Vaucluse, New South Wales. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the United States report on Nuclear Power Costs prepared by the Environment, Energy and Natural Resources Sub-committee of the United States Congress House Government Operations Committee which stated that radioactive waste is a significant and growing problem, that at least 3,000 metric tonnes of spent nuclear fuel are now being stored at commercial reactor sites with an additional 1 7,000 metric tonnes expected to accumulate in the next decade and yet there is still no demonstrated technology for permanently and safely disposing of this waste. 
If so, what is the reason for the Government's assertion that the problems of nuclear waste disposal have been solved. 
Will the Government indicate in detail the method of safe long term disposal of nuclear waste upon which it purports to rely. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
What percentage of the number of applications received for tourist visa entry to Australia have been refused from the following countries: 
Italy, (b) Greece, (c) Malta, (d) Turkey, (e) Great Britain, (f) Ireland, (g) Cyprus, (h) Philippines, (i) Malaysia, (j) Chile, (k) India, (1) Bangladesh, (m) Argentina, (n) Israel and (o) the United States of America during (i) 1975,(ii) 1976,(iii) 1977 and(iv) 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
Have any estimates been made to determine the cost of de-commissioning the existing HIFAR reactor at Lucas Heights, N.S.W.: if so, what are those estimates and when were they made. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 31 May 1978: 
1 ) What was the total expenditure on advertising for prospective immigrants in each of the last six years. 
What was the total expenditure on advertising for prospective immigrants in the six months to December 1977. 
In which countries were these funds used and what was the percentage of total expenditure in each country. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 31 May 1978: 
1 ) What percentage of migrants received assisted passages to Australia during the period I July 1971 to 31 December 1977. 
What were their nationalities. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What sum was spent by his Department on advertising and services during the period 
1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, 
14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, 
1 July 1 976 to 30 June 1 977 and 
1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
6 ) How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Were members of the Defence Force deployed in respect of traffic control, maintenance of security or other duties on the occasion of  Sir Robert  Menzies' funeral at Melbourne on 19 May 1978. 
If so, what was (a) the number of personnel involved, (b) the defence unit or units involved and (c) the prescribed objective of the deployment. 
On whose (a) request and (b) authority was the deployment undertaken. 
Are there any precedents for this deployment; if so, what are they. 
Was the Victorian Police Force considered incapable of performing the duties undertaken by Defence personnel. 
What authority is vested in Defence personnel utilised on such occasions to (a) regulate the behaviour of civilians, (b) apprehend and charge civilians with offences, (c) complement the traditional responsibilities of State Police and (d) use weapons or defence equipment in the discharge of duty. 
What are the essential differentials between such defence service deployment and martial law. 
-Did the Treasurer say yesterday at the National Press Club that the estimate for unemployment benefit payments was calculated on the basis of the number of unemployment benefit recipients increasing from 265,000 last year to 290,000 this year? If so, how does he account for the fact that the Department of Social Security estimates show that the allocation of funds for unemployment benefits this year is $9. 5m less than the amount spent on unemployment benefits last year? 
-The purpose of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Bill is to establish an Overseas Projects Corporation to assist Australian organisations to compete for overseas development projects in order to encourage the export of Australian goods and services. Such projects represent a large and rapidly expanding component of world trade. They are facilitated, of course, by the indigenous demand of many countries and by world aid programs such as those of the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. In addition, the availability of capital from oil producing countries is giving rise to a demand for very large scale projects in those countries. Further, as the oil producing countries lay off the proceeds of their oil sales in the form of loans to developing countries to ensure a return for the future, the developing countries are using that Arab oil money, if you like, for project purposes. 
This Bill represents the belated honouring of an election commitment made in 1977 by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In the face of Australia's deteriorating trade, the Government has introduced a five-pronged package proposal designed to stimulate export sales. This export development package is to cost an estimated $100m, and of course it is long overdue. We are faced with a critical trade situation in Australia. In addition to this proposal- this one-nth component of the package, the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation component- there are four other matters to which I will refer briefly. The package includes changes to the export market development grants scheme. Exporters are to be given incentives of up to 15c in the dollar, up to a maximum of some $66m, in order to stimulate trade. The next component is the strengthening of the Trade Commissioner Service, especially in the Middle East, Asia, the Pacific area and Latin America. Thirdly, there is to be an export promotion drive which will involve the use of displays, trade missions, trade fairs and publicity. Fourthly, there will be additional support for the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, known as EFIC. The fifth component is the one which is the subject of this debate. 
The Opposition does not discourage this package deal at all. As I have said, it is belated. Industry has been looking for Government interest and activity in relation to the problems being encountered in the efforts of industry to bolster world trade. The Opposition agrees that strong Government initiatives are urgently needed to stimulate exports. We also believe that a properly run Overseas Projects Corporation could make a useful contribution. But we are not at all satisfied that the proposals before the House represent the desirable concept, the kind of concept that will make this Corporation successful. We note that funds for the export incentives scheme have died off in recent years, and the Government must accept responsibility for this. We note that the entire package of proposals relates to a report on export incentives which the Government commissioned and received from the Industries Assistance Commission. We are wondering why this report is still being withheld from the Parliament, from the Opposition and from the people. We feel that we could make a far more useful contribution to this debate if the Government were not so secretive about these things and if we knew of the real crisis confronting Australia's manufacturing industries. 
The fact of the matter is that there are no worthwhile manpower policies prevailing in Australia at present. Not so long ago I saw a list of some 1 70 industry categories. In consultation with a senior public servant, members of the Committee on which I was engaged and I were advised that none of those 170 industries were regarded by the Government as worthy of government backing and support. Which industries have that imprimatur from the Government- 'deserving of government assistance'? Which ones are goers? Because of the inadequacies of and indeed absences of relevant trade and manufacturing policies, we are certainly at a loss to know. I see the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland ) sitting at the table. I am pleased to see him making an occasional visit to Australia. 
-Well, he is here in Australia. He is back from beating his fists on the closed doors of the European Economic Community. He was not making much of a noise so the Prime Minister had to join him. Regrettably, to this stage, the response has been extremely disappointing. What we find is a vacuum in intelligent interest and application by this Government to the trade opportunities in our own region- the Pacific and Asian region- that are staring us in the face. Hopefully this Bill might assist us in that connection because many great projects are to be built in the Pacific and Asian region. But we need this orientation. We need to realise that times have changed and the European Economic Community countries will not dance the tune just when our Prime Minister chooses to clap his hands. We need an overseas trading corporation as well as the project that is currently before the House for debate. Regrettably, when the Labor Government put the trading corporation idea before the Parliament it was rejected. Those who presently prevail in government must accept responsibility for the problems that have resulted from our not having an effective trading corporation in Australia. 
We have to face the realities of life. Only yesterday I think it was I heard the Prime Minister answer a question in the House in respect of one of our trading partners- a country from which I have only recently returned- the Soviet Union. The Prime Minister could not be disparaging enough about the Soviet Union. He had no consideration of the fact that there is a great imbalance of trade between Australia and the Soviet Union- an imbalance which is greatly in Australia's favour. I think it is to the tune of $400m exports to the Soviet Union and about $4m imports from the Soviet Union. Also, many job opportunities are involved in this consideration. This in turn affects the well being of Australians. But for the sake of miserable political advantage we see the Prime Minister and, I think, occasionally the Minister for Special Trade Representations playing politics about trade and the employment of Australian people. Let us have a cursory look at the trade situation which will be affected in a positive way, we hope, by this Australian Overseas Projects Corporation. Our exports for the 12 months to June 1978 grew, I think, by about 6 per cent while our imports increased by about 8 per cent. That is not a good situation. The downward trend continued into the month of July, the last month for which figures are available. Imports in that month increased in real terms by 2.5 per cent, but our exports fell by 8.3 per cent. As a result of this trend, our balance of payments is in a very precarious condition. The deficit on current account for 1977-78 was $2,410m-a figure revealed at page 22 of the Budget Speech. This is the result of a decline in trade surplus. This year it will hit a deficit level probably in excess of $3,000m. To meet this critical and rapidly deteriorating situation, the Government is looking hopefully to private capital inflow and no doubt to further overseas borrowing. In passing, I make the point about the Government's dependence on foreign investment, which is a poor substitute for internal capital accumulation and investment. I took out some figures recently to this effect: The total net inflow of identified foreign investment in Australia in 1976-77 was a record $ 1,931m- more than double the level of 1975-76. That is very short-sighted indeed. The income paid overseas last financial year was a record $ 1,653m. This shows how little long-term benefit the Australian economy receives from uncontrolled foreign investment. This tendency to solve our problems by allowing people to buy up Australia at a cheap rate following the 17  'A  per cent devaluation, in the long term has disastrous consequences for Australia. This is also the case when we are repatriating dividends overseas. The products of our manufacturing efforts go to benefit people in other parts of the world. 
For a long time there has been an overdependence on mineral exports to keep pace with our import requirements. Previously we relied on wool. We used to say that Australia rode on the sheep's back. Fortunately, for over a decade mining has been expanding and now represents some 30 per cent of our exports. But mining is low labour-intensive. Of course when we send our products of the mining industry overseas, this in turn generates an impact on our balance of payments. Australia is then faced with the dilemma of having to buy manufactured goods from the countries to which it has sold the products of our mines. When we sell a million dollars worth of bauxite to Japan we probably buy a million dollars worth of motor cars or footwear or textiles in return. So it is important that we minimise this dependency on our mining industry. After all, over half our mining exports go to Japan and the rate of that country's economic growth is now slowing down. As a result of that slowing down, already we have witnessed a decline in Japan's demand for raw materials for steel making. Our iron ore and coal exports have fallen as a result. The fact is that diversification of exports is essential. I suppose that consideration of that fact has prompted the Government to introduce this legislation. Internally our economy is so depressed as a result of government mismanagement that enormous areas of expertise and technological competence have been left unutilised. There are many statistics to substantiate that contention. 
It is significant that our Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  now considers it necessary to prop up the private sector with the creation of this new instrumentality. He has not always taken that view. Hitherto his attitude has been that government interference would be disastrous. Back in September 1 975, the Minister, as the then Opposition spokesman on trade, had different ideas. As the  Hansard  shows, on 4 September 1975, the present Minister, when speaking on the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill, said: 
The second aim of the Corporation would be to assist small Australian manufacturers and processors to enter into overseas markets. The Opposition cannot see how the proposed Corporation would assist that aim. 
The Minister has this prejudice against government involvement. He continued: 
We believe that if the Government wants to help small manufacturers enter the export trade it should restore the export incentive scheme. . . . 
When referring to countries with centrally planned economies, he said: 
Australia does not possess very much technology which these countries are seeking. 
But strangely he now has a Bill before the House which is designed to export that technology which allegedly is in short supply. In another vein in the same speech he said: 
It is unrealistic for small firms to rely on a government trading corporation to write their contracts for them. It is equally naive for a government to imagine that it can create a corporation which fulfils that function. 
Yet we find that that is the very purpose and nature of the legislation now before the House. In many respects the Minister has been forced to change his tune; he has had to eat his words, to eat humble pie because of the deteriorating state of our manufacturing industries. He admitted in his second reading speech that the private sector had called for Government support. He said: 
The Government has received a number of requests from Australian firms for support, assistance or direct participation in various development projects. 
He has had to admit that our companies are small and uncompetitive by world standards, that in a number of fields certain elements of essential expertise are located only in Government instrumentalities and that Government intervention and support is essential if Australian interests are to be able to compete on an equal footing with overseas competitors. 
I am concerned with clauses 11,12 and 13 of this Bill which relate to the management of this proposed Corporation. Five of the eight directors, including the  Chairman,  must come from the private sector. In fact it is possible under the legislation that all the directors could come from the private sector. In my view this denies the important and significant input and role of the public sector. It denies the significance of governmental capitalisation of the project, the investment of $2m of public money and the backup for contingent liabilities of $50m. For that matter, without the imprimatur of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the good will which has flowed from our aid program, Australian enterprises would not get to first base overseas in competition for these projects. 
We have the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for which I was once ministerially responsible and for which I think the Parliament has a great deal of respect. I fail to understand why that body is not given a substantial role in the Corporation. Why is it not to have representation on the board? It was established in 1970 and has a staff of 51 1 people, 148 of whom are overseas. Its pre-tax profit for the year 1976-77 was $ 1.87m and since its establishment the overall total dividend to the Government stands at 12.5 per cent on average capital. Why are we to have the extravagance of two overseas project agencies when we have the SMEC already in existence? It is associated with many projects for the Australian Development Assistance Agency. It is operating in 24 assignment locations and is expert on hydro-electric projects of the type it is building in Ghana. It is associated with ground water development projects, land settlement schemes, irrigation, highways, agricultural schemes and many other great projects around the world. It has operated successfully in about 23 countries and most of the States of Australia. Why is it not to have an effective role in this new Corporation, the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation? Why is it ignored? 
Why is the Bill drawn to make it possible for all eight directors to come from the private sector? Why is the Australian community or the public sector to be denied representation on the board of this great Corporation? After all, that organisation can exist only if it is government capitalised or government created. Its functions are to be financed from the public purse and initial capital of $2m is involved with $50m stacked up for contingent liabilities. Why is this public enterprise to play second fiddle to every comparable body in the country, unable to compete, only permitted to charge fees but not to make a profit? Why is the Corporation to be unable to carry out its own project works and to be required instead to have its works carried out by private organisations? Why is the Corporation to be prevented from engaging in general overseas trading? Why is the Department of Construction disregarded and why is that great instrumentality, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, of which all Australians are proud, treated with such studied indifference, and, indeed, with such studied insult? 
This Corporation is off to a bad start because the Government has such an uncompromising antipathy to public enterprise. Under this Bill overseas owned, dominated and influenced firms can be assisted to make profits by a Corporation masquerading as a public instrumentality. The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation should be made respectable and acceptable to the countries with which it wants to trade by becoming a genuine public instrumentality. I support the amendments to that effect which have been foreshadowed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  amendments which will soon be the subject of debate when the Committee stage of the debate is reached. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has moved amendments which represent the essence of the Opposition 's attitude to this Bill. I am glad that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has responded at this stage because he was unavailable to respond during the second reading debate. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has moved an amendment to clause 7 of the Bill to the effect that the proposed Corporation should be able to engage either as principal or agent in the buying and selling of goods. I support him in that contention. I find the attitude of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who is in charge of this Bill, to be without any reason or rationale except an oldfashioned prejudice to the effect that anything public is undesirable and anything private is good. 
The Deputy Prime Minister resorted to a defence that is related to a discussion on legislation that was put to the Parliament at the time of the Whitlam Government about the establishment of a similar authority. He said that when that Bill was before the Parliament there was a reaction from the private sector because it had a great fear. One can understand that fear but the important thing is to have regard for the well-being of the people of this country. It so happens that not only the public sector but also the private sector of our economy are disadvantaged by the fact that we lack the capacity, the machinery and the organisation to deal with those countries, such as the communist countries, which have central economies and with which it is necessary to deal on a government to government basis. 
It is very important to ensure that, where necessary, this proposed trading corporation should be able to act and to engage in the buying and selling of goods. I think that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, to which the Minister has referred, is a first class example. It is a pathfinding organisation. It gets its imprimatur from the fact that it is of Australian derivation and is indigenous to Australia. It is associated with the development of the Snowy 
Mountains scheme. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, though fairly minor by world standards in the engineering consultancy area, is highly respected and in its wake it brings the resources and the business involvement of many elements of the private sector. 
Of course, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has the power to engage in the buying and selling of goods, as the Minister would well know. This public instrumentality, which in the main is the servant of the Department of Foreign Affairs and our aid organisation, gives effect to our aid objectives, but it has also the capacity and the teeth to do something practical where necessary. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has pointed out, its prowess is such that it is able to obtain business in the face of world competition and can hold its own to a very respectable extent. It is probably engaged in work in 23 countries, especially in the Asian and Pacific areas, and as a by-product of and a sensible appendage to its work it can engage in the buying and selling of goods. It does not just charge a service fee. Its profit is the product of many things, including the service fee on the one hand and the buying and selling of goods and services on the other. 
Why is it so important for the Minister to reduce the power and prowess of this proposed public instrumentality to enter the field in a competitive way? Does he really believe in competition? Why is he so adverse to a public instrumentality of the type that many countries have in large measure, working effectively in the name of the people of this country and making for them profits that can be used to offset the cost of social services and many other things? What he is seeking to do, and the reason why he is opposing the amendments moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, is to put the private sector into a preferential position and he is denying the people of this country, represented by this new Corporation, which is his creation, of the chance to gain great windfalls. That is a very unfortunate situation and I hope the Minister will reconsider it. 
He said that the only argument against this public instrumentality being equipped to make money and to deal with these activities, including the buying and selling of goods, is that the private sector does not like it. The people outside are not obsessed with the idea that it is a top priority of this Government to safeguard companies that are dominated from overseas and want to come to this country to wax fat and to repatriate their dividends to other parts of the world, as they are doing at this time in greater measure than has been done previously. The people would like to feel that if there are profitable activities in which this new Corporation can engage they might benefit, that taxation might be reduced and that health services might be more readily available. This is a very fundamental principle. I do not want to develop it, as one could so easily, but we are sick and tired of this Government's deference to the great business corporation instead of being primarily concerned with the welfare of the people of Australia. In this respect the Minister is entirely remiss. 
Another matter to which the Minister referred was an argument against the case put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that there should be Government representatives on the board of this new Corporation. Why not? I put to the Minister, if I may, that the Corporation could not exist but for the financial backing that comes from the public sector, that is, the money that is voted as initial capital and the $50m to deal with eventualities. I remind the Minister that he has a second chance to speak in this debate and that there is nothing to prevent him speaking when I have finished. I challenge him to study the clauses of this Bill and to demonstrate that what I am saying is wrong. I contend that nothing at all in clause 1 3 prevents every member of this Board being a representative of the private sector. It contains no requirement to ensure that any of these instrumentalities, these custodians of the public interest, to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has referred are represented. Of the eight members the  Chairman  has to be nominated by the Government, as, I think, must the  Deputy Chairman.  It will comprise five people from the private sector and it may be that the other three can come from the private sector also because there is nothing to say that they shall be representatives of the public sector. 
We put to the Minister that taxpayers' money is involved here. This entire concept is designed simply to provide a masquerade for an organisation which is supposed to appear to be public and which will trade in the name of Australia. For God 's sake give the Australian people some representation through Australian instrumentalities. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has proposed that the Board should consist of representatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Trade and Resources, the Commonwealth Development Bank or the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, which is the most experienced body in this field in Australia. I invite the Minister to show me why that is not possible and to explain why everybody who will be running this show will come from the private sector and why the people of this country will be denied a voice in the running of this new Corporation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ciles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The importance which the Government attributes to this Bill, which affects the homes of servicemen and ex-servicemen, is demonstrated by the fact that it was introduced by the then Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Garland)  as far back as 25 May. Many other Bills of course have superseded this Bill, in the priority that they have been given by the Government. I am not sure that that is a bad thing because this legislation is not designed to vest great benefit in the people who would be applying under the provisions of the Defence Service Homes Act. The Bill is bad news for servicemen and ex-servicemen who seek assistance from the Defence Service Homes Corporation. Instead of introducing improvements to the scheme the Government is making inroads into some of its finest features. 
The period of service to be rendered by a serviceman to enable him to qualify under the scheme is to be extended. A new process of classifying applicants is to be introduced to facilitate a discriminatory waiting period for loans. Of course, this implies that waiting periods are to be the order of the day. They are to be built into the system. From here on they are to become a permanent feature. Servicemen can only deplore that fact, as must ex-servicemen, who also will be required to wait for their defence service homes benefits. The conditions of the defence service homes insurance scheme are to be eroded. The estate development scheme, which over the years has brought such enormous benefit to large numbers of ex-servicemen, is to be wound up. 
For the first time a substantial application fee is to be applied. The amount of the fee is not to be infinitesimal- $75 is a substantial deterrent to young servicemen and ex-servicemen seeking to raise the deposit for a home. That is the fee associated with applying for an initial loan. An application fee of $50 is to apply in respect of an additional loan. I understand that these fees could be required to be remitted whether or not the application is approved. Those are the general objectives of the legislation which is before us. The Budget also contained bad news about the defence service homes scheme. Whereas in 1977-78 $90m was made available for the purposes of the Defence Service Homes Act, the allocation is reduced by $ 11.2m to $78.8m. That will contribute to the waiting period to which I have referred. 
These retrograde steps are in very sharp contrast to the improvements which the Labor 
Government introduced between 1972 and 1975. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who preceded me in this debate, like the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  who introduced this legislation as the then Minister for Veterans' Affairs, failed to give any recognition to the great innovations which were brought about by the Labor Government to the benefit of servicemen. We on the Opposition side are subjected to incessant disparagement, but any serviceman will tell honourable members that the defence service homes scheme was greatly reformed during the time of the Labor Government. Instead of restricting the scheme the Labor Government extended it. We extended eligibility to the scheme in many ways. I suppose it is significant that our legislation even changed the name of the relevant legislation from its old name of the War Service Homes Act to the Defence Service Homes Act so that the serving members of the forces could derive continuing benefit. 
It is not generally understood that all the great benefits of the defence service homes schemethe old war service homes scheme- have been provided without significant cost to the Government. Treasury will engage in using jargon to the effect that there is an opportunity lost factor; that is to say, if the money had not been used for these purposes it might have been used for some profit-making purposes. But even with the application of an exceptionally low interest rate under the defence service homes scheme- the lowest interest rate in the country- these loans have been made available without liability to the Commonwealth. 
It is a sensible proposition that the scheme should be expanded. Probably there is merit in looking at the prospect of expanding the scheme and making it available to all Australians; but at least the Labor Party took it one step further than had been the case through the decades. The Labor Party made the scheme available to serving members of the forces by changing the name of the scheme from the war service homes scheme to the defence service homes scheme. National servicemen became eligible for the first time. They were able to qualify if they were serving on 6 December 1972 and if they elected to complete their period of engagement. Many national servicemen took advantage of that Labor Government innovation. 
Under Labor's legislation, which was assented to on 15 May 1973, regular servicemen became eligible for the first time. Regular servicemen were able to qualify if after 7 December 1972 they completed a period of continuous full-time service of not less than 3 years. The Labor Prime Minister of the day and subsequently I, as Minister in charge of the scheme, indicated that this innovation was based on our concept that the scheme could be used to attract volunteers. We were opposed to conscription. Indeed, subsequent events showed that this attraction, together with other attractions, was successful. We also said that we recognised the itinerant nature of a serviceman's occupation and the difficulty that this caused in respect of the acquisition of a home. We can see no reason for those principles to be regarded today as having degenerated. The principles apply as well today as they ever did. 
Under the same legislation of May 1973 the maximum amount of a loan was increased from $9,000, where it had stood from December 1971, to $12,000. From 3 September 1973 entitlement under the scheme was extended to apply to single females without dependants. Honourable members who have been in this place for some time will know that year after year the issue of eligibility for single females without dependants raised its ugly head. These people were unable to qualify under the legislation. Labor put a stop to that; the legislation was amended appropriately. 
Another progressive reform that was undertaken by the Labor Government related to people within ancillary service categories. Again, for some decades, year after year, this was the subject of amendments to the legislation. I first came here as a member in 1955 and I think that such an amendment was moved during the first war service homes debate I ever heard. We put a stop to that procedure by extending eligibility to the scheme to ancillary service categories. Those categories included the personnel of the Australian Comforts Fund, the Australian Red Cross Society, the Salvation Army and similar welfare organisations whose personnel served after 3 September 1939. In legislation assented to on 6 December 1974 Labor extended the scheme to include single males without dependants, which had been another one of the old perennial issues. In December 1974 the amount of the maximum loan allowable was raised under Labor once again, this time to $15,000 at a 3% per cent interest rate on the first $12,000 and at  Vh  per cent interest rate on the amount in excess of $12,000. That interest rate of 7V4 per cent represented a preferential interest rate as against the ruling bank interest rate of the day. 
Then new guidelines were set out for additional loans for essential purposes, for second assistance and for the transfer of the balance of loans in cases where mobility in employment or health considerations necessitated the sale of a home and the transfer of people from one place to another. These are matters of compassion on which, over the years, honourable members have received representations. We built into the legislation a discretionary power to enable the Minister to exercise compassion in respect of such cases. We did this recognising that these days mobility is a characteristic of employment, particularly in view of the fact that the Commonwealth especially, but also other employers, should retain the opportunity to deploy personnel, and recognising that ex-servicemen should not be disadvantaged when, as public servants, they are compelled to move from one city to another. 
The three years of office of the Labor Administration were undoubtedly the most eventful for the war service homes scheme since its inception in 1918. Because of widened eligibility, the number of applications rapidly increased from 1 1,687 in 1972-73 to 15,494 in 1973-74. Despite this no waiting period was introduced for some time, certainly not for loans to build new homes. I acknowledge that in the latter stage a delay resulted in respect of applications for loans for existing homes. As honourable gentlemen will recall, on 24 June 1975 responsibility for the defence service homes scheme was transferred to the Australian Housing Corporation. That was the subject of another great saga which time will not permit me to discuss at this stage. 
In the Labor Government's first full financial year- 1973-74- capital expenditure on defence service homes was $102m, compared with $74.3m for 1972-73 and $65m for 1971-72. Honourable members should compare those figures. The Liberal Budget in 1971-72 gave $65m to the defence service homes scheme. The Labor Government gave $102m in its first full financial year, 1973-74. In 1974-75 this figure rose to $130m and the number of homes built under the Act reached 1,244, which was the highest figure for 10 years. In 1968-69, 767 homes were built. In 1969-70, 796 homes were built. In 1972-73, 919 homes were built. Under the Labor Government that figure rose to 1,244 in 1974-75. Under this Bill the period of continuous service which a serviceman enlisting after 1 7 August 1977 must complete is 6 years. Those whose service commenced prior to 17 August 1 977 need to complete only three years. The justification for this retrograde step of extending the qualifying period was given in the speech of the then Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, who said: 
. it will be consistent with, and will strengthen, the prevailing conditions of service for the Defence Forces that are designed to encourage longer service. 
I think that this is a queer way of doing it. I do not think that the servicemen of this country will rub their hands with glee at the fact that the Government wants to strengthen the prevailing conditions of service by doubling the time they will have to serve before they can qualify for a war service home. No wonder the present Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  who is sitting at the table, is looking a little bewildered. I am sure he did not know that that provision was in the legislation. He can read it for himself. I assure him that it is a fact. Why can the concept of qualifying after three years of service not be retained? That was a virtue under Labor. Why is it such a virtue for the Liberals to be doubling the time these servicemen must wait? I represent thousands of servicemen from Army camps in the Liverpool and Holsworthy areas. 
-Now these people will be subjected to a nine-year wait, as the honourable member for Reid has pointed out. In recent debates I have been able to illustrate that these servicemen, like those in many other Army communities throughout Australia, including the ones represented by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  about whom the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  knows so much, live in the most appalling housing conditions. Many of the houses in which they reside are condemned. The Commonwealth has been required to get rid of them because the local government authorities regard them as substandard. Regrettably, these people now will be forced to wait much longer. It is considered that a regular serviceman is at a disadvantage compared to other members of the community. I fail to see why this step is being taken. 
There are other provisions about which I should like to speak but time is running out. The Opposition is very concerned about clause 27 (b) of the Bill, which will provide a discriminatory waiting period for defence service home loans. Preference in allocation to those with war service is provided for under this legislation. There will be a division of applicants into classes. There will be different minimum waiting periods between the time of making an application and receiving an advance. The provisions about the defence service homes insurance scheme give concern. We note the intention of the legislation to provide operational flexibility to maintain insurance cover and conditions that are no less attractive than those available elsewhere and to provide cover as set out in the statement of conditions. I note that the statement of conditions can be amended under this legislation without an enactment of the Parliament. 
We are not terribly interested in the fact that the Government wants to maintain insurance cover and conditions that are no less attractive than those available elsewhere. From time immemorial it has been the case that ex-servicemen and servicemen who have been insuring their defence service homes have been able to get coverage on better terms and conditions than were available elsewhere. We understand that the Government believes that it is a bad thing that it should run a service which has superior qualities to those run by its opposition in the private sector. Ex-servicemen and servicemen who have insured their homes under this insurance scheme have enjoyed such conditions for a long time, but under this legislation there is every indication that the defence service homes insurance scheme will be watered down so that it is no better than any other. It will be simply on a par with the terms and conditions in existence under the competing insurance schemes. We oppose that provision. We would like to see ex-servicemen assisted in the same preferential way in the future as they have been in the past. 
I am very concerned about the Government's stated intention to phase out the housing estate scheme. I remind the House that a stock of approximately 12,000 hectares of land with a value of $39.4m was conscientiously built up by the Labor Government to ensure that houses could be made available in decently planned estates at the lowest possible prices to exservicemen and servicemen who were benefiting under the defence service homes scheme. There is no doubt that substantial benefit has been derived. We are anxious to know why in this Budget the Government has announced its intention to sell off that estate, probably to some exploitative developers who will require the same servicemen and ex-servicemen to pay a lot more than they would have had to pay under the defence service homes legislation. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Are there any environmental reports compiled by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which are specifically not made public. 
Will he itemise the subject matter and the number of reports referred to in part ( 1 ). 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission published the Environmental Survey Reports for the years 1 975 to 1 977; if not, will he (a) indicate why the reports have not been published and (b) make copies of the unpublished reports available to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1 978: 
What is Australia's (a) personnel and (b) financial contribution to the North West Cape base. 
If Australia has joint financial and personnel responsibility why has she not been fully briefed through both of these avenues. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) Who in the Defence Depanment was responsible for not briefing him in relation to the Harold Holt base at North West Cape. 
Has his attention been drawn to a reported statement of  Sir Arthur  Tange that technical experts can talk to one another without it necessarily going to policy level. 
If so, having regard to this statement as it relates to the North West Cape facilities will he inform the Parliament (a ) who these technical experts are, (b) who has the responsibility for deciding which technical experts should be involved, (c) how many technical bodies or cells are involved within Australia, (d) whether countries other than the United States of America are involved in discussions, (e) how many Australian personnel are cleared to take part in technical discussions, (f) how many overseas personnel are cleared to take pan in technical discussions, (g) whether the Secretary of his Depanment is one of those people cleared to receive information on all discussions held within Australia and overseas by members of the various cells involved and (h) whether the Prime Minister is one of those people cleared to receive information on all discussions held within Australia and overseas by members of the various cells involved. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1 978: 
Is the North West Cape facility locked into Australia's long term defence program; if so, was the decision an Australian initiative and when was it taken. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) Are the Australian defence forces capable of containing any consequences from hostile countries reacting to a full alert. 
Will he assure the Parliament that the Prime Minister will be immediately informed whenever consideration is being given to placing the North West Cape facilities on full alert. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
In respect of each telephone exchange in the Electoral Division of Hughes, what is (a) the number of outstanding telephone applications, (b) the waiting period for telephone connection and (c) the program for the installation of new equipment and cabling. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Will the decision to phase out the coal export levy benefit the Utah Development Company by $130m over the period 1976 to 1979? Why has the Government given such a large handout to Utah while at the same time raising taxes by $76m this financial year on the lump sum payments of workers? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
How many persons have been granted entry to Australia under the arrangement for entry of migrant entrepreneurs since its introduction. 
What was the nationality of each successful applicant. 
By what country's passport did the applicants travel or intend to travel to Australia. 
Do successful applicants give any undertakings which are legally enforceable in Australia, in relation to investments in Australia; if so, what are these undertakings. 
What procedures have the Government instituted to determine whether the sums of money that are one of the pre-requisites for entry under the entrepreneurial arrangements (a) are not taken out of the country of origin in breach of the laws of the country and (b) are brought and invested in Australia in prescribed or legitimate areas of investment. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the percentage breakdown of the nationalities of immigrants who arrived in Australia during the period 1 July 1971 to31 December 1977. 
What is the percentage breakdown per nationality of those migrants who left Australia permanently in the same period. 
What was the average period of time spent in Australia by each nationality of those migrants permanently leaving Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report on Nuclear Power Costs prepared by the Environment, Energy and Natural Resources Sub-Committee of the United States House Government Operations Committee which stated that radio-active waste is a significant and growing problem with at least 3,000 metric tonnes of spent nuclear fuel now being stored at commercial reactor sites and an additional 17,000 metric tonnes expected to accumulate in the next decade, and that there is still no demonstrated technology for permanently and safely disposing of this waste. 
If so, how is this finding reconciled with the Government's assertion that the problems of nuclear waste disposal have been solved. 
Will the Government indicate in detail the method of safe long term disposal of nuclear waste upon which it relies. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
1 ) How many tourist visa applications were received for entry to Australia from (a) Italy, (b) Greece, (c) Malta, (d) Turkey, (e) Great Britain, (f) Ireland, (g) Cyprus, (h) the United States of America, (i) India, (j) Pakistan, and (k) South Africa during the years 1 976 and 1 977. 
What percentage of those applications was refused. 
How many persons (a) did not leave Australia after expiration of their tourist visas and ( b ) were deported for not leaving Australia after expiration of their tourist visas during the same years. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) Are there any proposals before the Government concerning the building of nuclear power stations in Australia. 
If so, will he state (a) the number of proposals under consideration, (b) the locations of the proposed nuclear power stations, (c) the estimated costs involved for each station, and (d) details of any proposal which the Government has accepted in principle. 
Does the Government have to give approval before any nuclear power station is built in Australia; if not, in which areas can these power stations be built. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Has he or his Department formulated or considered proposals for the removal from Hunters Hill of radioactive or other material considered a hazard to the public. 
If so what is the cost of and the advantages and disadvantages associated with each proposed alternative. 
) Will he give an undertaking that the proposals will be adequately publicised to permit public scrutiny and comment on the alternatives before any action is taken. 
-I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. Did he or the Prime Minister tell the  Chairman  or any executive member of the Northern Land Council at the Darwin Travelodge Motel- or any other place for that matter- on 8 September that, if the Ranger uranium agreement was not signed, they would lose the Northern Land Council and the Aboriginal Outstation Movement? 
-There has been a lot of trouble about apples over a long period from an historical point of view. Of course, with the seething parochialism that is in evidence in this place on the part of the Tasmanian members especially who always seem to have the incessant desire to exploit this issue for miserable political advantages, we always find troublesome debate in the Parliament when we deal with apples. In passing, let me comment on what the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  said. He rather implied that it was inappropriate for the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  for example, or any honourable member from Victoria or New South Wales to talk about the apple industry. 
-I will certainly comply with your ruling,  Mr Chairman.  I speak in this debate to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland. The honourable member moved in the second reading debate that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted. 

 -Mr Chairman, I understand that perfectly. I am simply pointing out that there has been a second reading debate and that if the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland had been carried there necessarily would have followed changes in the clauses of this Bill because the honourable member proposed an increase to $3 for a box of apples. As I was saying, this does affect many States in Australia, not just Tasmania. I simply want to mention a figure in terms of the number of boxes of apples produced. Out of 17.5 million boxes of apples produced in 1976 only 4.6 million came from Tasmania. So I have a right to talk in the Committee stage on this Bill, as does the honourable member for Parramatta. 
The Opposition feels that if the Government is convinced that this industry is best served by a subsidy and if it has rejected- as it obviously has- the argument of the Industries Assistance Commission to phase out the subsidy it should improve on the level of the subsidy. It should certainly do what it can by virtue of the provisions of this Bill to maintain the effective levels of the subsidy. I put it to the Committee that there are no provisions in the legislation which are designed to upgrade the benefits of the subsidy paid to apple or pear farmers in any part of Australia. I believe that is a very serious omission and there should be clauses to that effect included in the Bill. The proposed 20c increase in the level of support for apples from $2 to $2.20 a box does not reflect the true increase in costs borne by fruit growers or the ravaging and continuing effects of inflation. 
There is a valid argument to be made out for the inclusion in this legislation of clauses that will facilitate the indexation of support for Tasmanian farmers. As I have listened to the debate in Committee one thing has struck me, and that 
-The Estimates for the Parliament amount to $ 15.549m and cover seven major items including the Senate, this House, the Parliamentary Reporting Staff, the Parliamentary Library, the Joint House Department, the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works and the Joint Standing Committee of Public Accounts. It is a large amount of money and the Estimates represent a very important consideration for this Parliament and for the country at large. It is a long time since I spoke on the Estimates for the Parliament and since that time many of the matters to which I last referred have been improved and overtaken. So far as members are concerned, there are much better working conditions, shall we say, and we have had significant improvements in respect of such matters as the provision of research officers and facilities such as copying machines and other electronic devices, including the audio dictating arrangements. Then, of course, there has been an improvement in postage facilities and matters of that kind. 
The unfortunate aspect is that we have been stuck with this inadequate building and that is a very great liability from the standpoint of a parliamentary institution generally. The fact is that this building was built and occupied more than 50 years ago and that it was designed for 75 members of Parliament and 36 senators, a total fo 111 people. My colleague the member for 
Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  on a previous occasion mentioned that Walter Burley Griffin went before the Public Works Committee in 1922 and contended at that time that a new Parliament House should be planned, that it should go on the hill behind this building, that local materials should be used, and that it should be built in such a way that it could be expanded and be the nucleus of a permanent and enlarged parliament house. But, of course, that did not occur. The significant point is that the place has grown enormously. I have been provided today with information about the number of people who work in this building and I am grateful to the SerjeantatArms who gave me this information. I seek leave to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809194_55_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Committee. May I make some reference to the information before me. It is to the effect that there are 1,452 people servicing this building. A small number of them- 141- work in an annexe because of the inadequacies of this building and 20 are working in the Government Printing Office. It is interesting to note that apart from members and staff the significant additional categories of people represent the Joint House Department staff 225, the Parliamentary Library 140 and Hansard 90 people; there are 185 ministerial staff, 29 Opposition staff and 62 staff for senators and members; and the Press gallery has 205 people here. We have this inadequate building catering for these 1,452 people who are permanently operating here with a very large number of people who come in from dme to time. Of course, the manifestations are that we are unable adequately to accommodate the public and that we have inferior accommodation for Ministers, for members and senators and for the staff of Ministers, members and senators. Of course, there are many inadequacies in respect of kitchen facilities, the way the cooks have to work, the dining arrangmements and all the rest of it. No doubt the Shops and Factories Act would be breached many times over if this place were seriously looked at. 
I want to remind the Parliament that not long ago the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House brought a report to this Parliament. It was the first report and it coincided with the 50th anniversary of the use of this building. It recommended that we should take the first step towards opening the new building to coincide with the 200th anniversary of Australia Day- 26 January 1988. The first thing it said was that on 24 March 1927 Parliament resolved- and I am abbreviating this-that its next sitting would be in this federal capital. Then it said that in December 1 965 the first Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House was established to inquire into a future parliament house. Then it said that the site of the new and permanent Parliament House was debated and resolved by the Parliament Act 1974 and Capital Hill was determined as the site. It went on to say that following that determination the standing committee was established in 1975 and re-established in 1976 to act for and represent the Parliament as the client in the planning and building of the House. Then it went on to say that the Parliament House should be constructed and occupied, as I have already said, by 26 January 1988, the 200th anniversary of European settlement in Australia. If we set out on that course funds would not be needed for at least two years. 
We have a right to know what is happening to the determination of the Parliament. Has any progress been made or are we going to languish through indifference on the part of the Government? There is conjecture to the effect that the whole matter is going into Umbo and that the new Parliament House, the calling for design entries and actions of that kind will not be proceeded with. There is also conjecture that the Government is contemplating adding to the present budding. If there is such contemplation, I simply say that it is the prerogative of this Parliament also to have a say about that matter and that the Government should come clean as soon as possible. God knows that the building industry would benefit no matter which course of action were taken, whether it is additions to the old building or whether it is a substitution of this inadequate building by something more desirable. So I invite the Government to get rid of this ambiguity. 
May I also say that I am concerned that this Parliament could start to move into the 20th century. I think that it should make very positive efforts to get closer to the people, and there are many ways in which that can be done. I support  Mr Speaker  in his advocacy of better utilisation of the medium of television for the coverage of parliamentary affairs. I am not an enthusiast for covering every parliamentary proceeding, but I certainly believe that Question Time at least once a week to start with could be featured to very great advantage. I think that we should have less ponderous proceedings and I am very pleased that the Legislative Committees are emerging towards that end. I would like to see the Parliament and its precincts Australianised more than they are. In that respect I would like to make reference to the very useful ' A to Z of Polities' booklet which was launched yesterday on behalf of the former member for Grayndler,  Mr Fred  Daly. I have no doubt that this book will be of great use to many people. The book shows that we operate here in a sort of colonial context in so many respects and I believe that there is a need to reach out positively to give this parliamentary institution a touch of Australiana. Let me refer, for example, to my own role, that of a Whip, as referred to in this book of definitions entitled ' A to Z of Politics ' It says in part: 
This is an abbreviation of 'whipper in' borrowed in the parliamentary sense from eighteenth-century fox hunting vocabulary where the 'whipper in' kept the hounds from straying from the pack. 
Well, fellow hounds, let me say that I believe that there is better terminology to use in respect of this role. It is an important role. The book goes on to say: 
It is the duty of the Whip in consultation with the Leader of the House to arrange the business of the party in the House and to organise their forces in divisions and debates. They are responsible for the attendance, order and discipline of members and for the smooth functioning of the detailed business of the Parliament. 
The duties of Whip are arduous and important. They often require tact, patience, firmness and maintenance of his authority. On his ability to negotiate and use the time available for debate to the best advantage depends the ease an efficiency with which the House will complete its program. 
There are many other matters I could mention. Even the book of reference upon which we rely to settle disputes in this chamber is an English book referred to as May's authority. It was written by  Sir Erskine  May,  Clerk  of the House of Commons from 1871 to 1886. Of course, he wrote  A Treatise on the Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament.  God, I wonder why we have forgotten that we have men such as  Mr Pettifer  serving this Parliament who could also be regarded as an authority on such matters. There is a fellow in another place by the name of Odgers who could also write something on the subject which would be regarded as authoritative. Let us get a little Australiana into this Parliament. For example, if honourable members read this book they will see the trappings that are attached to the Speakership- the Black Rod, the Sergeant of Arms and all the rest. They will realise that we are aping the traditions of Westminster. That is not altogether bad. For God's sake, let us recognise that we have grown up and we are entitled to have associated with this Parliament more evidence of the fact that we are Australians and have some traditions of our own. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
In respect of workers' compensation, what sum (a) was collected in premiums, (b) was dispersed in benefits, (c) was dispersed by way of legal costs and (d) was dispersed by way of hospital and medical costs throughout Australia during (i) 1975-76 and (ii) 1976-77. 
-One could easily get the impression that we are discussing the Australian tourist industry but, of course, we are discussing the Departure Tax Bill. There has not been very much reference to that tax during the course of the debate. It has been interesting to see the inconsistent attitude of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who preceded me. Apparently he believes it is inappropriate to take a tax from people who are departing this country and direct it to a specific purpose. Frankly, I am not carried away with that idea and, by all accounts, the honourable member for Darling Downs is not carried away with it either. He has waxed eloquent about tourism. He wants two bob each way on every matter. He ought to realise that there is nothing unusual or exceptional about taking a tax and devoting it to a specific purpose. That occurs especially in the rural area on many fronts such as in regard to wool, wheat, pigs and so many other things. 
We are sick and tired of the hypocrisy and humbug which always emanates from members of the National Country Party of Australia. If honourable members on the Government side who feel strongly about the proceeds of this legislation going to tourism only had the courage of their convictions to move an amendment to that effect, it is very likely that the Opposition spokesman for tourism would consider supporting their amendment. That was the tenor of the main argument of the Opposition in relation to this Bill. We have heard honourable members on the Government side say that the tourist industry is important. During what is left of this financial year we will take $10m- a considerable amount of money- out of the pockets of tourists. We will take SI 3m in a full tax year. If honourable members really believe what they have been saying then they should move positively in that way. I believe the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is indicating that they will have the support of the Opposition. 
I put that suggestion to the honourable member for Darling Downs. He is saying that that is what should happen. But is that the fact? He has been talking about the tourist industry. If he is not saying that, then what is the relevance between the tourist industry and its problems and the airport departure tax? Of course, fundamentally, all we are talking about is a taxation Bill. This is another attempt to overcome the deficit. We ought to realise that the Government has budgeted for a deficit of $2, 8 13m. Of course, that is a high amount. The Government wants to get the amount down. But is the need to get it down so important that we impose this airport departure tax which will inconvenience so many people? In any event, let us remember that the deficit is $52 lm less this year when compared with last year. Why did we not propose an airport departure tax last year to drop the deficit? As the deficit is $52 lm less this year why should we have this imposition? 
I think the proper approach to this debate is the whole question of options. Is this the way in which to raise money to meet the deficit? The question is not whether the tourist industry should get the proceeds of this tax of $ 1 3m which will be derived in a full year. It is one of many taxes. As a result of the provisions of the 1 978-79 Budget we are getting $222m extra from people who are beer drinkers. We are getting $12 lm extra in a year off people who drink spirits. We are getting $ 1 36m extra in a year off people who smoke cigarettes. The extra revenue we are getting from people who use motor cars is $6 76m which is a large amount of money. It seems to me that we are really taking a very big hammer and causing a lot of people a lot of inconvenience in the face of that kind of deficit and of those figures to which I have referred just to raise $ 13m in a full tax year. There is no doubt about the truth of what I am saying. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in his second reading speech stated: 
In the present tight budgetary situation it has been necessary for the Government to consider avenues for raising additional revenue. The tax on departures will make a useful contribution in this regard. 
I believe there are other options. The Opposition contends that there are other options. We are not in favour of people being subjected to this enormous inconvenience. We have seen what has happened in other countries where this expediency has been resorted to. If the Government had continued the coal export levy in full it would have yielded three dmes the sum which is expected to be collected in a full year from this departure tax. In my view the coal export levy would have been one of the options which would have been preferable instead of inconveniencing so many people. We only have to have regard to the Utah Development Co. situation, if I could say this in passing. The profit of the Utah company rose by $28.1m last year to $158.3m. That was a 60 per cent return on capital. The reduced coal levy which will benefit Utah will derive $25m. I think we could have seriously looked at the idea of a capital gains tax. 
I think the House is entitled to recall that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has proposed an alternative Budget. Indeed, the alternative Budget had a particular proposition about a capital gains tax on such great exploitive instrumentalities as the Utah company, which would raise $300m in tax. Would not that be preferable to subjecting the people who save their long service leave and their annual leave and at 60 or 65 years of age take their trip overseas to Japan, Thailand or the United Kingdom? That is the kind of thing that is happening in Australia today. Is it not the aspiration of every worker to take his wife on an overseas trip, upon retirement? The more affluent seek to do so in the middle of their working careers. What this Government has chosen to do is to derive revenue from people who are saving every penny and skimping in order to get that fare together. Members of the National Country Party are laughing. Apparently they do not understand that this is the quest of the workers. It might be all right for some of the wealthy pastoralist friends of the honourable member for Darling Downs to think in an airy-fairy way of a trip overseas as against buying a Rolls Royce, a Mercedes-Benz, or something like that. 
-Indeed, it will become a monetary advantage to them. But I want honourable members to understand that as far as the ordinary people in the street are concerned, it is an earnest quest to get overseas for a bit of a break. Yet this Government is going to take $ 13m off people like that. I put it to honourable members that the other options are far more high principled. If the Labor Party were in office now this tax would not be being introduced right now. I do not believe that it should have been introduced at all. Since it has been introduced, we ought to have some indication from the Minister as to how the proceeds will be used. We ought to have some real answers as to why the tourist industry, for example, cannot benefit since it is the tourists, in the main, who will bear the heavy burden. 
I said that I would not speak for very long; therefore I think that I had better let some of my notes go down the drain. I know that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  is anxious to say a few words. I would have liked to talk at greater length about other options. I want to talk about another way of collecting extra money. If the Government is intent on collecting extra money from the users of airports or airport facilities, a better way would be to increase the levy for port or air navigation facilities- air navigation charges. The Parliament would know that there is scope to increase such charges. In 1975-76 air navigation charges yielded $53.5m. In 1976-77 they yielded $6 1.6m. In 1977-78 the figure rose to $73. 4m. In the last Budget the figure was $77m. The 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges provided for in the last Budget barely covers the rate of inflation. I believe that such an increase would be a better way of getting this $13m a year than subjecting lots and lots of individual travellers to the inconvenience of filling in application forms and so on. 
As I look through the clauses of these two associated Bills, my mind starts to boggle at the size of the bureaucracy that will be built up to police this business and the fines that will be imposed on people who try to get out of paying for this $10 coupon. We are to have other specialised officers who will ensure that people who come from Australian Territories do not pay the tax and that people who are just passing through Australia are not subjected to the tax. So it is quite apparent that the cost of getting this $ 13m of revenue in this way will be enormous. We will probably get $ 13m but spend about $6m on a great bureaucracy that will push people around and subject them to all kinds of inconvenience. How many of us have been overseas and have seen people weeping at airports when they have found that they have not anything left out of their travelling money to pay the $10 or $15 departure tax. This has happened to parliamentarians in whose company I was at the time. 
-Some of the National Country Party members have been in that situation. Some of them, being so dull and stupid, have been unable to work out the currency exchange rates and have had insufficient money in the right currency at the right time to pay their departure tax. I remember one National Country Party member who actually missed the plane because he could not understand the great complexities involved in currency exchange. I am simply asking: Why subject hundreds of thousands of travellers leaving Australia to this tax to get what in the end will be only a few lousy million dollars? I think the whole scheme is illconceived and I think the Government ought to withdraw it. The people of Australia are being subjected to an enormous nuisance. I just say to the Minister and to the members of the National Country Party, who these days seem to be more intent on looking after the interests of the exploitive overseas mining interests: Get something reasonable from those companies in return for the rape and pillage that is taking place in respect of the enormous resources of this country. If the Government wants $ 13m it should get it from other sources. It should withdraw this legislation. I say to the Government that, for heaven's sake, if it has not the nous to do that it should make sure that the deprived tourist industry gets some benefit from the revenue that will be obtained. 
-The Minister for Immigraton and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  might take the opportunity to enlighten the Committee in respect of the expected ramifications that these proposals entail. The amendment that we are discussing- that is the insertion of proposed clause 1 lA- is generally - 
-The provision that we are considering mainly is about enabling an authorised officer to ascertain whether a tax has been paid. For that purpose, he is able to interrogate people. One can understand that it is a proper prerogative to interrogate a suspect, but I notice that in sub-clause (2) of clause 8 there is also provision to enable any other person who may, in the opinion of the authorised officer, have information with respect to the matter, to answer questions or produce documents to him, or both. 
If we are talking about a $10 tax, it seems that we are getting ultra-belligerent about the whole matter. We are equipping bureaucrats with the power not only to interrogate a suspect but also to bring some other passenger- an innocent bystander, as it were- into the fray and maybe to ask: 'Did you see him buy a ticket? He said that he has lost his ticket and that he does not have one but that he bought one'. By way of this provision the Government will authorise an officer to subject other people to questioning and to create the chance of an uneasy situation arising. I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  whether this is the case. What does the Government have in mind? To what extent will the travelling public be burdened with what could be a harassing interrogative process that might not have any relationship to their travelling circumstances at all. 
-I rise mainly to seek from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  information about the purpose of clause 11, which has the sub-heading 'Special arrangements for payment of tax'. The Minister would know that the Bill states that the Minister may make an arrangement with a person under which the person agrees to pay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to any tax that may become payable - 
-The amendment, which proposes to insert a new clause IIA, makes reference to the regulations which are to be instituted under the Act, if the Bill becomes an Act. He goes on to refer to the role of authorised officers and the fact that they will be involved in the issue and sale of tax stamps, the refunds of amounts and the issue of exemption stamps. I have been looking for a clause that will enable me more effectively than any other clause to elicit from the Minister some information which the Committee is entitled to have. It seems to me, in all common sense, that this may be the clause under which to do it. It is certainly a clause relating to regulations and it is certainly a clause relating to officers.  Mr Chairman,  I take it that your silence means acquiescence. 
-Thank you very much. That is jolly decent of you,  Mr Chairman.  I ask the Minister whether he is able to indicate to us what kind of organisation is being set up, in terms of the number of officers who will do these things. Of course, we need to have regard for the fact that the imposition that is the subject of the Bill will be enacted in every airport and seaport in Australia from which people take off for overseas places. Obviously, if we are thinking in terms of even one person in every airport and seaport, it will have enormous ramifications. I think that we in this Parliament have a duty to let the people know what sort of organisation we are developing and the ramifications of it, what sort of overhead expenses we are developing and the kind of monster we are creating to obtain for the Government revenue of $ 10m this financial year and, I think, $ 1 3m in a full financial year. 
We know that many departments are seeking public servants. We know that there has been a restriction on the number of public servants in terms of the philosophy of the Government and the deficit. I ask the Minister: Is this Bill exempt from the staff ceiling provisions which have been prevailing very stringently throughout the country over a long period of time? Possibly we are thinking of thousands of officers, and not just officers who will work cursorily and occasionally. 
Obviously, if this tax is to work at all in respect of every departure, whether it is by aeroplane or by ship, from every airport and seaport in Australia, we have to have officers and all the ramifications that go with them. 
-They will have to work around the clock and on Saturdays and Sundays at double time or triple time. There will be penalty rates galore. The honourable member for Robertson says that there will need to be staff dining rooms. That is a possibility too. We know about Parkinson's law. We know how this kind of thing gets out of hand. It is undoubtedly the case that we will need to have hundreds, if not thousands, of people. We will need responsible officers to give effect to these laws. They will have the power to apprehend people, the power to interrogate people and the ability to count the money that is collected, to issue the stamps and all the rest of it. These people cannot operate in senior roles unless they have stenographers, secretaries, switchboard operators and computers. Honourable members should remember that the net objective of this whole thing is $ 10m. I ask the Minister to give this Parliament some indication of the extent of this great monster that is being created for the purpose of obtaining that $10m when there are so many other ways by which $ 10m could have been extracted. 
Let us not lose sight of the fact that many specialities are involved in this work. I am not sure why the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is sitting at the table and is responsible for this Bill because it is obviously not an immigration Bill. The whole of the debate has been about tourism and about Australians who are going overseas for a holiday. Yet we have the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs taking charge of this legislation as though he does not realise and the Government does not concede that it is not an immigration matter but an imposition on the workers of this country who are going away for an occasional holiday. In any event I ask him: Who are these officers going to be? Obviously this is a taxation Bill with no purpose other than to overtake the problems of the deficit to the miserable extent of $ 10m. Who are these officers going to be? Are they going to be officers of the Australian Taxation Office? Are they going to be from the Commonwealth Police, or to what extent will they be supported and upheld by the Commonwealth Police? I see that there is a proposal here which is going to add to the extent of penalties for infringement. It seems to me that it is a very high level of penalty that the Government is seeking to impose on those who infringe the provisions of this Bill. Clearly the Commonwealth Police would have some involvement somewhere along the line. Is the Department responsible for civil aviation to be involved or is the Bureau of Customs to be involved? Are all these departments to be involved? Is it going to be a great inter-relationship of bureaucrats which is going to develop into one of the most frightening things this country has ever seen? By what unobtrusive process is this $ 10 going to be extracted? I propose that instead of doing it this way we add it to the tax which is imposed on the air services which operate in and out of this country. Perhaps the Minister might clarify whether the airlines are going to be used- it might be appropriate to do it that way- in which event I ask what kind of commission is going to be given to the airways for rendering this service of collecting - 
-If the honourable member takes an intelligent interest he has the right to interject. Otherwise he has not justified his utterances up to now. I am simply asking in this context: If the airline companies are to be involved in the collection of this tax, are they to receive any commission? If so, how much? Then I ask the Minister How many specialised interpreters are to be involved in this whole business of collecting the $10 tax having regard to the fact that a very large number of the people from whom the tax is to be extracted will be passing through Australia or coming to Australia for a short visit? They will be Japanese, German, Dutch and Hungarian and obviously they will not know too much about this. What kind of expenditure is there in the paraphernalia which is involved in letting even the Australian population know, let alone people from other countries? It is undoubtedly the case that a Japanese person seeking to leave Australia after staying for a week at the Chevron is going to have a great deal of trouble and will need the services of an interpreter. I think that the Government is foisting onto the Australian community a terrible monstrosity. It is the worst way in the world to get $10m, which is just going into Consolidated Revenue and will not even help the people from whom the Government will extract it. I think that the Minister, on behalf of the Government, ought to come clean. If he cannot answer my questions he should postpone this Bill until he can find a Minister who can give the answers because the people of Australia have the right to know. 
-In similar vein I want to ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to clarify several matters. Clause IS of the Bill states: 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, . . . 
The fact of the matter is that this Parliament does not even know what regulations may be made by the Governor-General. Yet we are now deter.mining that instead of the provisions in the Bill prevailing, that is, that there shall be a penalty of $ 100, the provisions will be altered to increase the penalty to $500. It seems to me to be quite strange that we should go to such lengths in respect of categories of offences that are not even known to the Parliament. Obviously when the legislation was first drafted somebody thought that no matter what happens any kind of offence involved in trying to avoid the payment of a $10 tax should not attract a penalty of more than $100, and that is what the Bill says. It seems to me to be fairly reasonable to fine someone $100 for side-stepping a $10 imposition. 
We are actually dealing with a clause under which the Governor-General 'may make regulations' and for some unknown reason in association with that the Minister, being responsible for this Bill, has in his wisdom suddenly decided to jack up the penalty 500 per cent. What is the reason for this increase? Can the Minister explain to the Committee the type of penalty that in his view justifies the imposition of a $500 fine? Goodness me, it was not all that long ago that if a person was liable to a fine of $500 for an offence he could be subject to an alternative penalty of six months gaol. What are the penalties for comparable offences under other legislation? 
Not only has the Government changed its mind, such is the hurried nature of its approach to this legislation, but quite frankly I do not think there has been any proper consideration given to the Bill at all. Obviously it is the worst schemozzle ever seen in a desperate attempt to raise $ 13m in a full tax year. I have no doubt that the Government will spend about $ 15m or $20m to gross the $13m. That is the first thing. The Government has not thought about this legislation at all. It should be tossed out lock, stock and barrel. No doubt we need some explanation from the Minister as to why the Government made a mistake in the first instance when it proposed the imposition of this penalty. Suddenly overnight it has decided, without even knowing what the regulations will be or what the offences will be, to jack up the penalty from $ 100 to $500. 
Let me ask this question of the Minister. Supposing an offence is committed by a tourist from one of the Arab oil countries or a tourist from Turkey or Japan and the person, a non-English speaking person, has shot through without paying the $10 tax. In the event that people are convicted and fined $100 under the Bill, or $500 under the amendment, does the Government propose to extradite these people from overseas? What proportion of potential offenders are likely to be people from other countries, including people who cannot speak the English language? It seems to me to be incredible that the Government has not thought out the legislation. The whole proposition is absurd. Do the extradition provisions in other legislation apply to this Bill? If not, by what process does the Government intend to apply the same kind of justice to people other than Australians as it intends to apply to people who reside in this country? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 February 1978: 
1 ) Has any Australian Government funded research been undertaken or planned into the use of hydrogen gas as a fuel source. 
Can he say whether an American company, Hydrogen Fuels Inc., has claimed to have found a cheap method of producing hydrogen fuel solar energy. 
Will he provide details of Australian Government funded resources projects in the field of alternative energy sources. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of the United Nations mission of 1974 concerning the Cocos Islands has the Government decided to (a) accept and (b) reject. 
Has the Government consulted and obtained the views of the inhabitants concerning the future management and administration of the islands. 
What negotiations have taken place between the Government and the owners of the islands since December 1975. 
Has any agreement been reached between the Government and the owners which is wholly or in part at variance with the recommendations of the United Nations Mission referred to in pan ( 1 ) or contrary to the expressed views of the majority of the inhabitants; if so, will he provide details of the provisions which are at variance. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Is there any nationality requirement which will preclude visitors from certain countries being granted special working holiday visas to Australia; if so, what nationalities are precluded. 
How many special working holiday visa applications were (a) accepted and (b) rejected from visitors from the following countries during 1976 and 1977: 
Japan; (ii) the United States of America; (hi) South Africa; (iv) Great Britain; (v) Ireland; (vi) Denmark; (vii) Sweden; (viii) Italy; (ix) Greece; (x) Turkey; (xi) Cyprus; (xii) India; (xiii) France; (xiv) Canada; (xv) New Zealand; (xvi) The Philippines; (xvii) Indonesia; (xviii) Malaysia; (xix) Fiji; and (xx) Chile. 
-I cannot help but feel that I have been dobbed in. Actually I was not going to say a great deal about the Bill, but I appreciate the introduction I have had from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I take the opportunity of welcoming the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs (  Mr Adermann)  to his portfolio. Clearly he is a man of some capacity and intelligence. I have always regarded him as one of the brightest Ministers. I think that it is highly fortuitous that he has come into this portfolio to administer a matter which is very important to the welfare of ex-servicemen and indeed servicemen who, as a result of initiatives taken by the Labor Government referred to by the honourable member for Reid, are also eligible for assistance under the Defence Service Homes Act. 
I do not want to be critical of other Ministers who preceded the new Minister in this portfolio but it is already evident that he has a good grip of the legislation and that he is prepared to take some positive action about it- not that there is any indication that he has taken any positive action in the legislation now before us. It is apparent from the clauses of this Bill that all the proposals emanating from the Government at this time are retrograde and against the best interests of ex-servicemen. Indeed the clause that has been the principal subject of the amendments which the Government has introduced is mainly to clear up an ambiguity that through misinterpretation possibly might provide benefit for somebody. 
The Minister will admit that the amendment to clause 3 has no beneficial intent or objective in any way whatsoever. Lurking somewhere, I am inclined to think, in the Government ranks or indeed in the bureaucracy- although I must say that the bureaucrats who administer the defence service homes legislation are a very modern group of people- is somebody who has the sneaking idea that some servicemen or servicewomen who may not comply with all the technicalities possibly could qualify for a loan at 3% per cent interest. That person has thrown up his hands with grave concern at that possibility. So this amendment has been introduced to make certain that members of the Citizens Military Forces will not be able to qualify for a loan under the legislation. There must have been some fear that there were too many entitlements of women who have served so members of the Women's Royal Australian Naval Service, the Australian Women 's Army Service, the Women 's Auxiliary 
Australian Air Force, the Austraiian Army Medical Women's Service and the Voluntary Aid Detachment are specified in this legislation. For what purpose? To make certain and to tie up the legislation in a legally watertight way so that these people cannot get a defence service loan unless they have served in a combat area at a time when the country was at war. That is the effect of the legislation. 
The Minister, who has the right to reply in this Committee stage, is unable to indicate anything in the Government's amendments that is intended to provide one iota of benefit to exservicemen. We know what it is all about. In the first instance the legislation is to make it more difficult for serving members of the forces to get a defence service home loan. I take it that the Minister's silence represents acquiescence. Prior to this legislation going to the third reading stage and getting the assent of  His Excellency  the Governor-General serving members of the forces needed to complete only a three-year period of engagement to qualify for a defence service home loan. Under the Bill they will have to serve for six years and indicate their preparedness to sign up for yet another term! That is the major thrust of the Bill that is before us. 
-I said that I thought he had the potential. Let us put it that way. 
-He is a National Country Party Minister. I cannot understand why the honourable member should be undermining a man who has just got the job. The Minister is obviously one of the most intelligent men in the Ministry and is entitled to a fair go. 
I would like to raise a question that I think the Minister would readily be able to answer. He would be well aware that the Budget papers refer in money terms to matters involving this legislation. I refer in particular to the intention of the Government to dispose of land which is held for the purpose of defence service homes estates. The Budget papers indicate that the Government is to sell off this land for $6m. The honourable member for Reid would know of that. I want to know how it is that land which is in all States of the Commonwealth, and which at 2 November 1976 was said to comprise 1,223 hectares and to have a value in excess of $39m can now be written down, in Budget terms, to $6m. 
The clauses of the Bill which relate to this matter expose a regrettable Government intention: No longer will servicemen and ex-servicemen who qualify for defence service homes be able to obtain one of these estate homes, which have been built in an aesthetic setting, with the benefit of town planning and architectural design, on land acquired on a bulk, raw acreage, basis and which hitherto have been made available without profit to the Crown, on advantageous terms to ex-servicemen. It is a deleterious and backward step that the provisions of the Defence Service Homes Bill should do away with that scheme, which has benefited many hundreds, if not thousands, of servicemen and ex-servicemen over the years. Why is it that a substantial stock of land, exceeding 1,200 hectares, which was built up so conscientiously by the Labor Government is now said to be worth only $6m? We have heard recently of land scandals. Sunbury and Melton are nasty words in parliamentary proceedings. I am glad to say that there has never been even a suggestion of that kind of thing in regard to defence service homes. Therefore, it is important that we be given a proper and effective answer to the question- to whom and in what way is this land to be sold, and is it a fact that although it is worth more like $S0m it is to net only some $6m? Its value in November 1 976 was put at $39.4m. 
I regret that my time has almost run out. The Minister noted, in regard to section 27B, that no longer would he introduce differentiating waiting periods for loans. He has made that clear but, heaven knows, he ought not to. Since this Government came to office the waiting period has increased, because inadequate funds have been made available, from 11 months to 14 months. If, for the reasons stated, it is not his intention to give effect to section 27B, I would ask him to tidy up the legislation and withdraw that iniquitous provision, which creates discriminatory classifications as between applicants for defence service homes. 
Many other clauses of the Bill demand ventilation, but I know that the House has to turn to other matters. I ask the Minister whether he would be good enough to answer the questions that I have raised. Perhaps at another time the Australian Labor Party will have an opportunity to restore the beneficial terms that enabled serving members of the Defence Force to enjoy the benefit of defence service homes, so that that provision, which encouraged recruitment and enticed into the services men of great calibre, can again become a feature of the defence service homes legislation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  to comment specifically on the Government's proposed amendment to clause 3, which would add to sub-section (2) of section 4 certain new sub-sections. I refer in particular to sub-section (2C), which reads, in part: (2c) Subject to sub-section (2d), an Australian soldier who, by reason of his misconduct or misbehaviour- 
was discharged from, or otherwise ceased to be a member of, the Naval, Military or Air Forces of Australia; and 
And if I may add my own words- who, by reason of that process of being discharged becomes ineligible for the purposes of the Defence Services Homes Act. I take it that the intention of that provision is to ensure that a person who is discharged as a result of misconduct or misbehaviour will not enjoy the benefits of this scheme. If so, I would put it to the Minister that the contrary view has been proposed to successive Ministers, from both sides of the Parliament, in respect mainly of ex-servicemen rather than serving members, following cases in which servicemen have demonstrated gallantry in the field- in one case I believe recognition of that fact was givenhave subsequently, for other reasons, been discharged dishonourably from the forces and have, as a consequence, become ineligible for these benefits. My memory is somewhat vague on the matter but such a person might also have become ineligible for repatriation benefits. I ask the Minister whether more contemporary thinking ought not to be adopted on this matter. During the latter part of my term as Minister responsible for the legislation in question I had indeed, given thought to that aspect. Such cases had, in fact, been put before me. It just seemed to me that once a man established his eligibility by enlisting and serving in an overseas theatre his rights should not be taken away from him because of something that may have eventuated thereafter. Often a man has been discharged from the Services for offences which if committed by people in civilian life would not scar people permanently in their careers in the Public Service or in industry or commerce. They go to the courts and pay their penalty, and we do not pursue them relentlessly and deprive them of getting a decent living and having benefits and rights that other citizens should have. Why should a man who lands at Gallipoli or Balikpapan and serves his country voluntarily in an outstanding way and who, perhaps in a mood of celebration comes back and jobs his major, be ineligible for a defence service loan? 
If I understand this amendment properly, there is to be some kind of tightening up, or at least there is not to be a loosening, of the arrangement that affects these people. Undoubtedly it has been the case that such a person has been deprived of eligibility under the defence service homes scheme. What is the criterion that guides the Minister and the Government in respect of this matter? Do they really believe that they can impose a set of circumstances that can take away rights which people can really think of in contractual terms when they enlist? I know that young men going into the permanent forces today look at the prospectus as it were. They say: What does a career in the Services offer me? After so many years, among other things, I can have a defence service home'. People might even take that view when they are enlisting to serve overseas in times of hostility. If they should then fall foul of somebody or commit a misdemeanour that seems to me to be a totally unjust reason to deprive them of a benefit which they have earned by virtue of two fundamental factorsfirstly, their enlistment, and secondly, the fact that their enlistment has taken them into a war theatre. I forget the proper terminology, but that is good enough to explain what I mean. 
I put these matters to the Minister generally. I have had cases to this effect brought to my notice, and I know that other honourable members have also. I would like to see any impediment on such people removed and I would like the Minister, if not now, at some subsequent time to consider what I have put and maybe favour me with the benefit of his reply. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
1 ) In relation to the authorisation given to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to commence a design cost study for a new isotope protection and research reactor to replace the HIFAR reactor at Lucas Heights, N.S.W., will he indicate (a) the terms of reference under which the design cost study is to proceed, (b) whether an environmental impact statement has been ordered and (c) if public hearings will be held before a decision is made on the construction of a new reactor. 
Will he also determine whether a new reactor is needed and, if so, whether it should be sited at Lucas Heights. 
-The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  has obviously been stirred up, having heard the new member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  relate the exceptional swing to the Australian Labor Party that was in evidence in the Werriwa by-election. Swings of 2 1 per cent against the Liberal-Country Party Government are hardly within living memory. That of course is going to manifest itself throughout New South Wales in the forthcoming election. The honourable member is whistling in the dark. He knows that Neville Wran has spoken for himself and can speak for himself and that indeed the people will be speaking with him when they go to the polls. 
I listened to the haranguing of the honourable member and to the distorted figures he quoted. I want to mention just one matter to which he referred. I must not be deterred from the issue about which I wish to speak today. The honourable member has raised the question of education. One has to take only a very cursory look at the Budget Papers to realise that the account given by the honourable member of the education situation represented a distortion of the facts. The facts simply are that in the Budget brought down by this Government expenditure on government schools has been reduced by $ 14.3m to $372m and expenditure on nongovernment schools has gone up by $30.3m to $253m. The regrettable aspect of that is that it is not the poor parochial schools that are receiving the extra money flowing to the private school system but the level 1 schools, the privileged schools. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder!  That is not a point of order. It is matter for debate. 
-I will reciprocate with a point of order and take up the time of someone else during this Grievance Debate. I am very concerned about the failure of this Government to get on with the job of providing a natural disaster insurance scheme. Two and a half years ago announcements were made in this Parliament to the effect that the Government was facing up to this problem. How many years does the Government want in which to do something about the people who have been so grievously affected by natural disasters as to lose their homes? In March 1976 the Government announced that it had agreed in principle to introduce this natural disaster insurance scheme. Indeed a discussion paper was tabled based on a report of the working party which was established to formulate the scheme in consultation with the insurance industry. Nothing has emerged since then except a ministerial Press statement on 8 December 1976. In that statement the then Minister said that the Government's aim was to see a natural disaster scheme introduced at the earliest practical date. 
The need for the scheme has been consistently referred to in the Parliament by a number of members. On many occasions I have raised it on the floor of this House and by way of correspondence to the Minister. The discussion paper indicated that the natural hazards covered by the scheme would enable earthquakes, floods, tropical cyclones and related hazards such as landslip and storm surge to be covered. To date Federal governments have been assisting on a one-off basis the most prominent tropical disasters such as floods, cyclones, et cetera. Nobody resents the fact that the Government comes to the rescue when there is a great crisis such as the Darwin cyclone or indeed the flooding of Brisbane. It is not good enough just to have regard for the crises that people experience. When such a crisis is on a large scale hundreds of thousands of people may be affected. In many instances smaller numbers of people are affected and are left to fend for themselves. I have before me a great deal of documentation on this matter. I will not be able to deal with it all by any means. For example I have a letter from a consulting engineering firm which is highly experienced in these matters. The firm is called Golder Associates Pty Ltd. It said: 
Through our work we have come into contact with a large number of people in desperate situations because of landslip. Unfortunately, to be caught up in this problem proves to be a major tragedy for many individuals, both financially and psychologically. 
The areas in New South Wales which were mentioned and which are affected by this one form of natural disaster are: Illawarra, Wollongong, Stanwell Park and Gerringong area; the Picton, Camden and Moss Vale area behind the Illawarra escarpment where there are geological faults; the Warringah Shire area- that is, the northern beaches of Sydney; and the Gosford and Wyong Shires. At Oxley in Brisbane, there is also an incidence of the problem. Other areas affected in Queensland are the Buderim and Mooloolaba areas and the Tamborine Mountain area and adjacent slopes. This consultant company went on to say that in Sydney between 1972 and 1976 three houses have been completely lost; in Wollongong 13 houses have been completely lost. In the Oxley area of Brisbane five have been lost and in Buderim in Queensland two have been lost. Four houses have been damaged in Sydney, 16 in Wollongong, two in Gosford, three in Brisbane and three in Buderim. The report went on to talk about the failure of building blocks. In Sydney 19 blocks have been affected. In the Wollongong area alone 46 have been affected, 1 1 in Gosford and 1 1 in Buderim in Queensland. The report mentioned many other forms of damage. I have received an interesting table from the company. 
In the area that I represent and in neighbouring areas are many examples of people having lost a home in total or in part. At 37 Asquith Street, Austinmer for example the foundations have been cracked and the house is broken in half. The estimated total lost is $10,000. At lot 5 Buttenshaw Drive, Austinmer the house and land have been destroyed. This list that I have from the Wollongong Council which covers some 35 houses goes on to enunciate what really represents human tragedy in the most devastating form. The fact is that there is no compensation- no process by which the seriously affected people can be rehabilitated. 
Because the problem is so serious I have in the last couple of weeks received a great mass of representation from organisations in the Illawarra area. For example I have before me a letter on the subject from the  President  of the South Bulli Miners Lodge, a letter from the Secretary of the Stanwell Park Country Women's Association pleading for assistance for these people, a letter from the Appin Miners' Federation signed by its  President,  a letter from the  President  of the Stanwell Park Parents and Citizens Association and a letter from the Secretary of the Bulli Miners Lodge. A petition has just arrived with 400 names on it from the Illawarra area calling on this Government to become seriously involved in this matter and to give effect to the promises that were made 2Vi years ago. The matter was the subject of a Press statement with attachments by the Minister. A part of that statement was headed 'Basic Elements of the Scheme Recommended by the Working Party for Public Comment and Further Technical Development'. I seek leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

BASIC ELEMENTS OF THE SCHEME RECOMMENDED BY THE WORKING PARTY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AND FURTHER TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT 
A pool of general insurers would be established to offer natural disaster cover against selected natural hazards and for specified kinds of property. The pool would directly  underwrite risks and would meet all claims from its own resources and from private reinsurance up to a pre-determined amount, when Commonwealth support facilities would be available. 
The Commonwealth would not be involved in direct underwriting but would offer reinsurance facilities to the pool up to a specified maximum limit. Reinsurance premiums would be paid by the pool to the Commonwealth. The reinsurance arrangements would be developed in accordance with sound insurance principles but, in the determination of premium rates for such reinsurance, consideration would be given to the possible need to assist in producing reasonable premiums on cover provided to the public. The pool would be expected to take out private reinsurance to cover its liabilities beyond the extent of Commonwealth reinsurance, subject to availability and reasonable cost. 
All insurers authorised under the Insurance Act 1973, State Government Insurance Offices, the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme, and other Commonwealth agencies which insure property would be eligible to participate. The Government would seek to ensure maximum participation by insurers. If participation proved to be inadequate, consideration could be given to placing an obligation on insurers to participate. 
The Government and the insurance industry would actively encourage maximum participation, on a voluntary basis, by the public in the scheme. However, the Government may need to consider the possibility of using some form of compulsion if experience showed that it was necessary. 
The natural hazards covered by the scheme would initially be restricted to earthquakes, floods, tropical cyclones and related hazards such as landslide and storm surge. 
The scheme would extend initially to all ordinary household property and contents, and to small businesses (urban and rural). In appropriate cases State and local government assets could be covered. 
A Premiums Advisory Committee would be established to determine rates of premium and related conditions of cover on a basis to take account of differing risks. All participating insurers would be required to apply these determined premiums and conditions. 
Special arrangements would be considered for assistance to be provided to those who, subject to a strict means test, cannot afford to take out natural disaster insurance cover. 
As an essential requirement of a successful scheme, Governments would vigorously pursue policies to mitigate the risk of exposure to hazards. 
A Commonwealth agency would be established to administer the scheme, particularly the proposed reinsurance arrangements, and to co-ordinate Government activities and to liaise with other organisations involved. g December 1976 Canberra, ACT 
-The scheme which is envisaged simply is to encourage private insurance companies to facilitate insurance in respect of these high risk situations. To the extent that a liability will be incurred, the Commonwealth Government will draw up arrangements through the working party appointed for this purpose so that an underwriting process can be introduced. I appeal to the Government to get on with the job of giving effect to this scheme. It is probable that thousands of people throughout Australia have lost their homes and many more may do so in the future. When one takes into account that the existing insurance arrangements are such that people are unable to insure against such occurrences as land slip, earthquake, subsidence and in some cases flooding and even bush fires, it is obviously a serious deficiency. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I think the catch in what the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  said about varying pensions is that I have never heard him express much enthusiasm about varying wages with any frequency. I get the impression from the speeches that he has made in the Parliament that he does not want wage increases related to movements in the consumer price index. Pensioners can construe from that that he is really saying in different words that he does not want to see pensions increased. 
That speech to which we just listened was, in my view, the height of hypocrisy. It is similar to many other speeches made in this House by honourable members opposite. In their electorates they speak along certain lines but in the Parliament they act, as does the Prime Minster  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  quite differently. We know the promises that were made by the Prime Minister and the honourable member for St George during the election campaign, and we know the way such promises have been broken in this Budget. The Government has admitted, by reversing some of its socially inequitable Budget decisions, that it has not taken into consideration the effect of those decisions. Indeed, the result of the Werriwa by-election demonstrated to the Government quite clearly that the decisions taken in the Budget were unsupported by the people. The Government has been forced to reverse its attitude because its decisions were ill-conceived and impetuous and in many respects they were inhuman. 
The kitchen Cabinet, which is dominated by  Mr Fraser,  prepared a Budget which ruthlessly disadvantages people who have been legitimately in reciept of social benefits and people who, through ill health or other incapacities, are already disadvantaged. These decisions were taken without regard to the social dislocation and hardship they would cause, without consideration of the advice of experts, without consideration of the problems of administering the changes and without, in some instances, adequate consultation and referral to the responsible Minister. In the area of social security, health and welfare, this socially irresponsible ad hoc decision making is most pronounced. The recent reversal of the decision to tax a wide range of invalid pensions is evidence of this ad hockery. This change of policy occurred only after the Government witnessed the spectacle of the crippled people demonstrating outside Parliament House their preparedness to fight this Government in order to get justice. 
Then we had the reversal of the decision to means test family allowances. I think there was a feeling of revulsion right around Australia that income earning children were to be the prey of the Fraser Government. Of course, this revulsion was reflected in the Caucus room of the Liberal Party, and the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  were forced to change their attitude on this matter. The decision to means test family allowances was in direct contradiction of the assurance given by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I believe that the recently announced reversal of policy may mark a victory for the Minister for Social Security and will be a very serious setback for the Prime Minister whose credibility is running out at an unprecedented rate. There is no doubt in my mind that it will not be long before honourable members opposite will be looking for another leader. 
I shall just summarise the decisions affecting the disadvantaged people in our community. First of all, there is this important question of pensioners which was referred to by the honourable member for St George who preceded me in the discussion. The Government has decided to index pensions according to movements in the consumer price index. But those pensions are to be adjusted only once a year, as against the twice yearly adjustments that have previously been made. What a hypocrisy it is! We have a government that is reducing the incidence of adjustments to pensions, yet we have Government members standing up and saying that they should be increased. Of course, the fact of the matter is that we will have a 3.4 per cent increase in pensions next November to cover increases that started in the first half of 1 978. That is the situation and pensioners will be robbed of $100m as a consequence of this action. It is a very distressing development in Australia. 
Another decision affecting disadvantaged people is the failure to index family allowances. The value of family allowances has fallen 27 per cent since 1976. The maternity allowance is another matter affected by these estimates. The Government has decided to abolish the maternity allowance. I remind honourable members that this benefit was introduced 66 years ago, back in 1912, by the Fisher Government. It has withstood two World Wars, a Depression and many other economic crises, but it could not withstand the Fraser Government. After 66 years, during which the mothers of Australia have been receiving the benefit at the rate of $30-odd a week for the purpose of meeting confinement expenses, this Government has contrived a way of depriving the women of Australia of that benefit. What an incredible historymaking epic this is! 
Then we find that expenditure in respect of children 's services is to be cut by $6m from $7 1 m to $65m. The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  seems to revel in all this sadistic budgetary behaviour. Family planning services, in real terms, are to be cut back, as are the community health programs which are so important to women as they support women's health centres and refuges. Then there is the expenditure of family allowances. The estimates under that heading for this financial year show an expenditure of $948.2m, which represents a decrease of $89.9m on last year's expenditure of $l,038m. 
So it continues, item after item. Obviously, I will not have time to refer to all these matters. There is even a change in relation to repatriation benefits. That will have the effect of depriving service pensioners of their automatic right to go into repatriation hospitals and receive treatment for disabilities, whether war caused or otherwise. As I glance through this great catalogue of cuts and curtailments in government benefits, I see, for example, that the payment of family allowances abroad is to be discontinued. This seems to me to represent an attack on the migrant community. Page 86 of Budget Paper No. 1 indicates the Government's decision no longer to pay outside Australia family allowances, orphans' pensions and handicapped children's allowances unless the child is temporarily abroad, living abroad pending migration to Australia and living abroad with a person receiving the Australian pension. 
But there are so many other things that are objectionable. Grants to eligible organisations under the Aged Persons Hostels Act have been cut, as have grants expressed in real terms, to the Australian Pre-school Association. I suppose what annoys me more than anything else is the vindictiveness of the Government with respect to the unemployed youth of Australia. The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  seems to revel in this particular item of the Budget. 
-But you look so happy about it, so placated by it. But how annoying it all is: 221,000 people who receive unemployment benefit and have no dependants will be deprived for the next 12 months of any adjustment to their allowances. Also, there are 68,960 people with dependants and 221,000 who are without dependants. It is a mistake to believe that these are all young people. Many of them are older people who have been forced into redundancy situations and I would like whoever follows me on the Government side to justify making victims of these unfortunate people, whose numbers will undoubtedly grow. The Government has a case to answer. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What statistical programs carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics have been discontinued or reduced during the period December 1975 to date. 
What sums have not been allocated to the Australian Bureau of Statistics or any other statistical section working in conjunction with the Bureau on a program by program basis as a result of action referred to in part ( 1 ). 
I join in the concern that has been expressed about the fact that these five important tax Bills have been introduced at such short notice, thereby denying Government committees and Opposition committees an opportunity to examine properly the import of the legislation. It is plain as a pikestaff that this Government is on the run. What the guillotining of this legislation really means is that the Government is planning to get out of Canberra just as quickly as possible. It has seen the writing on the wall from the New South Wales elections and the Werriwa by-election. It knows that the people are gravely concerned about the tax measures and that these attitudes of the public at large were expressed in the New South Wales elections last Saturday. From the Government's point of view, the sooner it wraps up this whole controversy about taxation and gets away from Canberra, the better it will be. That is certainly the way the Government sees the situation and that is why we are debating this legislation today. 
Why have these five Bills been introduced at all? It is simply because of the Government's difficulty following the Budget deficit of over $3,000m last year-more than $ 1,000m greater than was estimated in last year's Budget. It is just amazing how things which are supposed to be pernicious can suddenly be designated as respectable by this Government. The Labor Government was accused of being ineffective and infamous, for that matter, because of the deficit which it incurred, but that deficit just pales into insignificance compared with the deficits that have occurred since this Government took office. 
Of course, this year, as I have said, we are to have another large deficit. Last year the deficit got to $3,300m. The Government has to replenish its coffers. So the tax measures before the House aim to satisfy the Government's requirements for money. This will be done, firstly, by increasing the tax burden on a large number of Australians and, secondly, by removing some of the more blatant tax avoidance schemes which have sprung up over the years. Of course, we support the removal of the latter. The Government should be condemned for increasing the tax burden. The measures introduced further burden those members of the community least able to pay and least organised to resist the further reduction in their standard of living. 
There are six significant issues involved in these tax impositions. I just want to spend a short time saying a few words about each of them. First of all, the tax surcharge of 1  Vi  per cent is to apply only for this year. This raises the standard rate of personal income tax from 32 per cent to 33Vi per cent, with corresponding increases to 47 per cent and 61&amp; per cent at higher income levels. The effect of the surcharge is to wipe out any so-called tax cuts offered by the Government- promised by the Governmentand introduced in February of this year and which were bought by the electorate at the cost of losing many Government-funded support schemes which constitute the social wage of workers and are so important in raising the standard of living of Australians. The tax cuts were a trade-off for cutbacks in programs such as the health scheme, Medibank matters, housing and the environment. These tax cuts, which were the subject of the trade-off, have now been removed. The pay-as-you-earn collections are estimated to rise by 7.1 percent. 
The injustice that is involved with these alterations to the tax laws is causing very great concern throughout the Australian community. A family receiving $175 a week will pay 7.3 per cent more tax while a family receiving $300 a week will pay only 5.6 per cent more tax. A family receiving a salary of $1,000 a week will pay only 3.2 per cent more tax. There are not many people in that latter category. They are the very prosperous people. Parliamentarians are advantaged by this. Foremost among them, of course, is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I do not know his salary offhand but I suppose it is in the vicinity of $ 1 ,000 a week. 
-You do not think it is? 
-The honourable member for Hindmarsh would know because he follows these matters very closely. I am just trying to get some perspective into this matter. I thought the Prime Minister's salary would have been around the $50,000 mark. 
-I cannot do that quick calculation. The point I am making is that if the Prime Minister gets $1,000 a week he will pay only 3.2 per cent more tax but the poor old battler on $175 a week has to pay 7.3 per cent more tax. That seems to me to be a very unfortunate situation. I cannot understand how this can be condoned by honourable members opposite. It is unfortunate that their State colleagues in New South Wales had to bear the burden but I think that people's memories are enduring enough to take a toll of the guilty men when the people go to the polls on some subsequent occasion. I know that the Government thinks these things will be forgotten about in two years time, that people have short memories, but I doubt it. I have never seen such indignation at the polling booths as I saw last Saturday. On many occasions I asked people why they were turning to the Labor Party in such large numbers. Most of us here know the pattern of many voters at local polling booths. I said to many people: 'I understand that you regard Neville Wran as being a great Premier'. They did not deny that, but many of them said: 'The real reason for me changing my voting pattern is because of the injustice done; firstly, in respect of the breaking of the promise concerning taxation and, secondly, by putting the burden on to the lower income people '. 
Sitting suspended from S.S9 to 8 p.m. 

 Mr LES JOHNSON Before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the income tax surcharge and the fact that there is a higher percentage tax surcharge on lower incomes than on higher incomes. I want to refer to the additional tax on lump sum retirement payments for unused leave. Unused annual leave payments are to be taxed at a rate of 33.5 per cent. Previously only 5 per cent of such income was taxed as assessable income. The fact is, of course, that the Government has backed off from taxing unused leave payments at 47.5 per cent and 61.5 per cent in the case of higher incomes. This is very disappointing for many people who were planning to use the payment for unused leave as a nest egg for retirement. I suppose all honourable members know of such cases and it is a very distressing situation which the taxpayer tends to regard as a breach of contract. After all, he has entered into an arrangement over a long period in anticipation of some date ahead, the date of retirement. When we consider that a person can have an amount of, say, $3,000 accruing to him and that $ 1 ,000 of it will be swept away in tax, or that a person is entitled to $9,000 in lieu of unused leave and that $3,000 of it will suddenly be grabbed by the Fraser Government, we can understand why people are reacting so bitterly. 
The third matter concerns the proposal to abolish tax deductions for housing loan interest payments. This also is a very serious blow to many people and indeed to the depressed housing industry. There are working class, average income people in my electorate who are desperately trying to finance homes 20 miles from the centre of Sydney. They are paying $20,000 for a block of land and are trying to enter into an arrangement with a building society. The tax deductibility of their mortgage interest payments was actually taken into account by the lenders in determining whether they had the capacity to repay these loans. We know that $3m in revenue will be saved in the remainder of this financial year and that $31m will be taken away from these home owners and from the building industry in the next year. That seems to me to be running in the face of all the things that ought to be done by the Government. As any of the building organisations will state, the building industry is facing a crisis. The Master Builders Association is incessantly contending that a critical situation prevails. The housing industry association and architects have made similar submissions. Yet we find this Government putting a deterrent into home building and, worst of all, committing this breach of faith with the home building industry and the young people in this community who have been finding it so difficult in these days of rapid inflation to enter into an arrangement to purchase a home. 
I think that I should make some reference to the proposal to tax the incomes of holders of Commonwealth post graduate awards. This scheme was introduced some 19 years ago in 1959, and now for the first time the income received by holders of Commonwealth post graduate awards is to be subjected to taxation. The Government will take from the holders of these Commonwealth awards $600,000 in the remainder of this financial year and $lm in a full year. It does not seem to be a lot of money. To a government it is certainly not a lot of money, but it is a lot of money to these people. All honourable members have received submissions from student organisations. I have in front of me now a submission from the Research Students Association of the Australian National University, which states: 
The aim of the scheme is to encourage able students to pursue studies normally leading to the degree of Master or Ph.D. in an Australian University. The scheme encourages post graduate work and research in Australia . . . There are now 2,050 award holders and the allowance has risen to $4,200 with some additional allowances for thesis typing, dependants, travel, et cetera. 
The submission continues: 
In 1976 64 per cent of post graduate scholars were married ... 40 per cent of scholars are supporting a family while undertaking post graduate studies. 
The submission goes on to point out that a single scholar receives a scholarship allowance of $4,200. The level at which the income is to be taxed is $3,893. The taxable income will be $307, and at a tax rate of 33.5 per cent the amount of tax payable will be $103. This seems to me to be nitpicking. The Government has closed off so many other options for deriving income tax in terms of resource taxes and matters of that kind- taking additional taxes from industry which, in some instances, is fleecing the Australian community unreasonably. The submission states that the summary of the overall effect on the real value of awards is that the combined effect of the Budget proposals on taxation and changes in Medibank, together with the lack of indexation of awards, is a sharp decline in the real value of the scholarship. The effect with respect to the basic stipend for a single scholar, taking into account the absolute reduction in income due to taxation amounting to $103, the estimate of $50 for medical expenses and the loss due to inflation amounting to $1,236, is a total loss in real terms of $1,389, or 33 per cent. I ask the Government- maybe it is too late- to reconsider this matter. 
Another matter concerns tax rebates for dependants residing overseas. These provisions are also being withdrawn in this tax legislation. The cost to the Australian taxpayers and citizens of supporting aged parents and other dependants living overseas is estimated by the Government to be $8m for this year and $20 for a full year. This concerns the taxpayer's spouse, parents, parents-in-law and invalid relatives. The Government seeks to justify this action with a one line sentence in the Budget Speech, which states: 
In many cases the dependant in question may have never been to nor have any intention of coming to Australia. In other cases the provision has led to flagrant abuse. 
It is on that criterion that the Government is changing this tax arrangement and withdrawing this benefit. I believe that the provision is aimed essentially at migrant communities throughout Australia. All of the recipients of this tax deduction have been declared guilty without a trial but how many of them are guilty? No evidence of abuse has been put to the Parliament. Even if the abuse exists it does not justify removing the deduction. It is up to the government of the day to tighten up the scheme to prevent abuse, not to abolish the scheme because of the abuse which is occurring possibly on the part of a minority of people. In taking the course of action which is proposed in the legislation before the House the Government is culpable of punishing innocent people. There is also no equity in discriminating among Australian taxpayers solely on the basis that their dependent parents or children are not living in Australia. 
The other matter I mention is health insurance. As we know, Medibank Standard is to be abolished and the cost to revenue in a full year will be $30Sm in extra outlays plus $3 16m in reduced receipts. But, of course, this does not mean that the average Australian necessarily will be paying less in the long run because to achieve a greater cover than the 40 per cent offered by the Government Australians will have to insure with a private fund and the cost of this cover is likely to rise as more and more healthy Australians opt not to obtain additional insurance. The worst part of this concept is that the extra amount that has to be paid for through the private insurance funds is applied on a most inequitable basis. That is to say, regardless of the income of the person concerned, everyone who wants more insurance has to pay the same. That is the great difference between the Government's new proposals and the proposals which operated under the Labor Government's original Medibank scheme. Under that scheme people payed according to their capacity to pay. 
The reason for the Government's decision to abolish Medibank Standard is not related to the wish to provide a better health care system. It is prompted by an ideological commitment to certain groups of doctors and to put the burden of health care on private health insurance funds and the desire to fortify the Government's attack on real wages by artificially reducing the consumer price index. I do not think it will be very long before the chickens come home to roost and we see the CPI down as a result of artificial manipulating through this health scheme arrangement. We will then see a reduction in the support that the Government gives to the national health scheme. 
I have referred to six very serious situations which represent a deterioration in the taxation arrangements that have operated in this country. I can understand the Government seeking to close off this debate as quickly as it can. These tax arrangements represent a serious breach of faith with the Australian people. The Government's actions have rankled the Australian constituency. I believe that at the first opportunity the Australian people will show their indignation against the decisions of this Government. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What licences have been issued under provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act to facilitate operation of community antenna television systems. 
Which of the issued licences apply to areas outside capital cities. 
What licence applications for community antenna television systems have been rejected and what were the grounds for rejection in each case. 
Where have television translator station facilities been provided to improve or facilitate reception of the national television service. 
What priorities have been determined to provide translator facilities for the national television service and at what estimated cost will each translator be established. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
1 ) What is the composition of airborne waste from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's Research Establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW. 
1 ) What gaseous radio isotopes remain after filtration. 
What methods are used to filter tritium from gaseous emissions. 
How many curies are emitted into the atmosphere daily. 
What was the composition and amount of gaseous waste discharged into the atmosphere in the year 1977 and what was its total radioactivity. 
6 ) Is airborne waste taken into account in the AAEC 's estimates of radiation doses to members of the staff and to the local population. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
What are the arrangements which the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has with New South Wales authorities concerning the appropriate measures for the protection of persons and property, including evacuation as a last resort, in the areas around the research establishment at Lucas Heights should it become necessary. 
When were the arrangements first entered into. 
What possible dangers are the arrangements supposed to cover. 
What Commonwealth financial commitment is made in support of these arrangements. 
Which State instrumentalities' co-operation has been sought and obtained. 
What direct funding has been given to the State instrumentalities in return for any commitment. 
Has the AAEC or any other Government instrumentality provided printed guidelines of the counter measures necessary depending on the nature of the possible accidents at the AAEC establishment at Lucas Heights, for the use of 
the State instrumentalities and authorities of the area, 
residents of the Sutherland Shire and (c) employees and workers at the research establishment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Does the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights, NSW, follow the recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) in setting standards on radiation exposure for workers in the industry and the general public. 
Can he say whether these standards are accepted by the United States Government. 
Is he also able to say whether the United States Environment Protection Agency has adopted standards which are 20 times more stringent than those of the ICRP and that the safer United States standards have been in operation since January 1977. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What directives have been issued by him under sections 16, 17 and 35 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 February 1978. 
1 ) What sum was spent by the Department of Administrative Services on advertising and services during the period (a) 11 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What was the cost of each campaign undertaken. 
Under which item of expenditure were funds allocated. 
Which advertising agencies or consultants were used for each campaign. 
What was the total sum paid to each agency or consultant for each campaign. 
How was each agency or consultant selected. 
What is the estimated cost of advertising and promotion of Government programs and services for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Which (a) departments and (b) senators or members have been allocated use of IBM memory typewriters. 
What is the (a) total number of machines and (b) unit value of each machine. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission applied to the New South Wales Water Board for permission to dispose of waste currently discharged into the Woronora River, through the Board's sewer; if so, what conditions must the Commission comply with before permission is granted. 
If there has been no application, what is the reason. 
What alternative measures are under consideration to put an end to the disposal of waste discharged from the Commission's research establishment into the Woronora River. 
-Can the Minister for National Development give an assurance that in no circumstance will radioactive waste which at present is stored at Maralinga be shifted to Sydney for storage at the atomic research establishment at Lucas Heights? 
I gather from what the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  said that he is in disagreement with the policy of the Government and that he wants more money spent on housing. I take it he is implying that more funds ought to be made available to the terminating building societies, for example. Of course, that is an area in which an effective curtailment of funds has occurred. It was the Labor Government which introduced special provisions which enabled people earning up to 90 per cent of average weekly earnings to qualify for assistance from the Government at  5Vt  per cent interest rate. I cannot have my train of thought derailed too much by the tirade of the honourable member for Bendigo who preceded me in the discussion, because what he said was very hard to comprehend. It was obvious that he just wanted the best of both worlds. 
The new Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is sitting at the table. We are all looking to him with great expectations, hoping that there might be a new turn of events under his administration. We hope that he is more than a pretty face, but we have not seen much evidence of that up to now. The Government continues to direct resources into the corporate sector. For example, the investment allowance, in relation to which more than $850m has been appropriated, is obviously designed to replace men with machines. There does not seem to be an effective realisation on the part of the Government that investment in the building and construction area, which is labour intensive, will bring very great benefits to this country. A cut of approximately 9 per cent in real terms has occurred in total Commonwealth controlled funds which flow to the building and construction industry. This will mean a loss of about 28,000 jobs, some 14,000 of them as a directresult of this decision, and that many more again will occur in the material supply area, the servicing area and other associated industries. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  mentioned some figures. I would like to document my case with some figures. In Budget terms, net advances to the States for housing have been reduced by 26.S per cent. Expenditure on defence service housing has been reduced by 26.6 per cent. Expenditure on housing in the Territories has been cut by 95.7 per cent. Overall the curtailment in housing expenditure is 33 per cent. Much more slashing of the funds has occurred in connection with urban affairs generally. For example, funds made available under the heading 'Sewerage and Garbage assistance to the States' have been slashed by 60.6 per cent. Funds have been reduced for land commissions, urban rehabilitation, urban flood mitigation. So it goes on. These are matters which generally fall into the area of housing and construction and associated areas. 
Let us look at the official figures in regard to housing approvals. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics a reduction in the number of new dwellings approved has occurred as follows: In Australia in August 1978 there were 10,390 approvals; in August 1977 the number was 1 1,360. So that in itself shows a drop in approvals of 9.6 per cent. That is to say, 970 fewer approvals were made this August than was the case in August of last year. Then let us look at the commencement figures for the most recent quarter, which happens to be the June quarter 1978. The number of commencements on dwellings over Australia in that quarter was 32,140, which compares unfavourably with the June quarter 1977 figure of 33,330. The same pattern emerges whichever figures one looks at. 
Let us now look at the matter of loans from savings and trading banks to individuals for financing construction and purchase of newly constructed dwellings. The number of new dwellings commenced on which savings and trading bank loans were given was as follows: In August 1977 the total was 4,387 and in August 1978 the total was 4,065. So we have another reduction in that area. Thus 322 fewer new dwellings were financed by savings and trading bank loans in August of this year than was the case a year ago. The cost of financing new dwellings also rose between August last year and August this year. The increase in round figures was from $81m to $85m. So it has cost more to finance fewer new buildings because, whilst $4m more this year than last year was borrowed from savings and trading banks by new home buyers, 322 fewer new houses were funded. 
I turn now to the figures in regard to finance made available from savings and trading banks for new and old dwellings. We find that over Australia $238m was allocated in August 1977 and $274m for August 1978. That represents a 15 per cent increase in net terms, but it does not really imply anything of great significance because that allocation is in regard to new and old dwellings. So we see so much of that sort of substance being burnt up in the turnover of old houses. The Government just seems to be unable to see the wood for the trees in this regard. It places a lot of reliance on the decision to reduce the prescribed assets ratio held by the savings banks. I think this is the thimble and pea trick because the assets ratio has been around the 50 per cent level for some time in any case. It will not shift downwards because of the rigidity of the asset structure of the banks and because of the prospects of the banks obtaining capital gains from their bonds. I was quite interested to see a comment on this matter in the publication  Inside Canberra.  In referring to this matter, that publication stated, referring to the building industry: 
All it got was a reduction from 43 per cent to 40 per cent in the ratio of public securities and liquid assets which savings banks are required to hold.  Mr Howard  claimed this would expand savings banks' capacity to lend for housing. In fact this will not happen for at least six months for a variety of reasons, including the reluctance of the banks to get rid of paper at a time when interest rates are easing downward and borrowings from local government authorities are to increase by 1 2 per cent this year. 
Yet that is the factor upon which the Government has placed such great reliance. The figures- time will not permit me to go through them all- show that rents have gone up, that employment in the home building industry has fallen dramatically. We can see that for all of Australia, excluding the Northern Territory, 7,900 jobs were lost in the industry last year. Now I come to the policies of the Fraser Government designed to alleviate this situation. Already the Fraser Government has abolished the Australian Housing Corporation which was designed to be versatile and to have the capacity to move in and to assist people who were faced with mortgage barriers in obtaining housing loans. We have virtually abdicated from the housing field because we have taken away the instrumentality that would have enabled the Commonwealth to be effective in this area. Now funds for the home savings grants scheme have been curtailed. The Government has cut into the funds that were to be made available for defence service homes. Of course the much vaunted Housing Allowance Voucher Experiment scheme has now been abandoned. This time last year it was one of the future housing initiatives of the Liberal Country Party alliance which has now found it to have no teeth and no usefulness. Having spent money on the bureaucracy and all the overhead factors associated with it, and not having given any benefit to the people who are seeking homes, the Government has suddenly decided to jettison this initiative as well. 
-The Audit Amendment Bill normally would not be ventilated with the same exuberance as is being demonstrated tonight except for the fact that legislation committees are meeting this evening and it is the view of the Parliament, in its corporate state that there ought to be nothing of a highly controversial nature taking place in the House. Yet the fact that we have had an opportunity to talk to this Bill at greater length tonight than would normally be the case provides very great benefit to the Parliament. The first realisation that I have is that although this legislation has been around for a long time, not many honourable members necessarily have applied themselves to it. On the other hand, some members have applied themselves to the consideration of this watchdog role about government expenditure with enormous capacity. I think that tribute is due to the members of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and the Expenditure Committee. 
-The members of these two committees are derived from both sides of the House. They applied themselves to the consideration of this legislation and they played a vital role. It is interesting to recall that this legislation was discussed a long time ago but fell foul of the closing down of the previous Parliament. The legislation was in the Senate when the Parliament was prorogued in 1977. That, together with the other circumstances to which I have referred, probably has caused it to come out of the doldrums and take on this new significance. 
The calibre of the debate tonight has been most revealing. I think that special tribute is due to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  and to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who led for the Opposition in the debate. We have come to expect a high standard from him. He is an expert in matters associated with the economy generally. The honourable member for Grayndler is a former Minister Assisting the Treasurer- indeed, he assisted several Treasurers- and he has applied himself to the subject assiduously for a long time. I think that I would be less than gracious if I did not acknowledge the speech of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  as well. Some people have said that his face is his fortune. Some people have said that he has no feeling for people. But one thing we do comprehend is that he has some interest in economic matters and that he presides over the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament to very good effect. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, as you are aware, it is not in keeping with my style to pay too many tributes. Yet, with your indulgence, I would like to go on to pay another one tonight. That, of course, is to the man who I believe breathed life into this entire subject. I refer to  Dr Coombs,  who presided over the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. That Royal Commission made the fundamental point, which I thinkis accepted now by everyone as being totally correct, that the Public Service was running riot to some degree or that, in any case, it was not subject to scrutiny that could stand up to examination; that it might have been right, but it was not being shown to be right because the checking-out processes were not sufficient. The report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, which was presented to the Parliament in 1 976, was a great report. I would like to make some references to it. I suppose that one could speak about the report for a long time, but 1 shall refer only to section 3.6.7, which is relevant to the legislation now before the House. It reads: 
The Public Service Hoard has shown great reluctance to assess the performance of departments and agencies. Indeed,for some years no section 17 examinations were made and. now that they have been resumed, they are seen as exercises in assisting and improving management rather than in auditing or assessing performance. They arc carried out by a team headed by an external consultant and including a senior officer from the department or agency concerned. The form oftheBoard's participation emphasises its role of servicing the team, although there is no reason to doubt its real contribution to the study itself. Furthermore, the report of the team is treated as strictly confidential to the department concerned, and great care is exercised to preserve this confidentiality. It is only with much reluctance that the Board gave the Commission access to its reports, enabling it to study the scope and methods of the inquiries. That scope was found extremely narrow. 
That report, of course, has a vintage quality about it by now, but it rings as true today as it did at the time it was made. Nothing of an adequate nature can be said about the  chairman  of that inquiry,  Dr Coombs,  not only in respect of that report but also in respect of so many other matters. He drew out from this massive documentationthe report is about11/2 inches thick and consists of almost 500 pages- the fact that the departments of the Public Service were not being brought under adequate scrutiny. 
Now we have the amendments to the Audit Act. I do not profess to comprehend them all; they are extremely technical. Although it is rare for me to agree with the Government, if my interpretation is correct the legislation means that the Auditor-General in now being unfettered or freed and given the characteristics of flexibility, to move in, to probe, in his discerning way, and to cause, by that very licence, a greater degree of competence and efficiency. This is a very great advantage. As I look through the legislation in a cursory way 1 notice that in proposed Division 2 of Part VI there is provision for efficiency audits. I do not really understand the definition of an efficiency audit. The name implies something of merit, the merits conceded by competent members from both sides of the Parliament. I have no doubt that that division is very important. It requires the results of the efficiency audit to be made readily available. Proposed sections 48j to 48p seem to relate to a capacity to invoke independent auditors, and that appeals to me also as a very likely innovation. 
Let me now make reference to the report of the working party of officials on efficiency audits. I hope that I have not given the impression that, somehow or other,  Dr Coombs  and his inquiry have crept up on an unsuspecting and vulnerable Public Service by preparing the legislation before us. Not only were  Dr Coombs  and his inquiry involved but also the Public Service itself was involved in this self-evaluation by way of this working party of officials. It has provided a very worthwhile report. I notice that the report refers to the publications of the United States General Accounting Office and says that it provides a useful description of an efficiency and economy audit. The report goes on to describe it in these terms: 
A review of efficiency and economy shall include inquiry into whether, in carrying out its responsibilities the audited entity is giving due consideration to conservation of its resources and minimum expenditure and effort. Examples of uneconomical practices or efficiencies the audit should he alert to include 
procedures, whether officially prescribed or merely followed, which are ineffective or more costly than justified. 
Duplication of effort by employees or between organisational units. 
It is surprising the extent to which such duplication can take place with the participants even being oblivious to the way in which they arc shadowing one another. So it is very important to be conscious of that vulnerability. Paragraph (c) refers to the performance of work which serves little or no useful purpose. One can go on just doing something as a routine matter. It is a worthy process to have a purposeful, objective and periodical examination to ascertain whether the action is justifiable. This is one of the processes which is being followed by theUnited States General Accounting Office. 
Paragraph (d) refers to the inefficient or uneconomical use of equipment. Of course, that issue is taking on new dimensions of importance as we move into the computerisation area. The capital cost of this equipment in some instances can amount to millions of dollars. Paragraph (e) refers to overstaffing in relation to work to be done. Paragraph (f) refers to faulty buying practices and accumulation of unneeded or excess quantities of property, materials or supplies. Goodness me, if we think of this factor alone and relate it to any area we can recognise that we have hardly scratched the surface. I doubt that we have scratched the surface even in respect of our own individual lives. The duplication or unnecessary storage of articles in the kitchen cupboard because of the ready availability of similar articles is amazing. When we see this matter from the standpoint of a departmental situation, the whole question of accumulating unneeded excess quantities of property, materials or supplies is absolutely mindboggling. 
I know that this sort of thing happens in respect of senators and members of the House of Representatives. In the time I have been around this place I have seen dictaphone apparatus come into the possession of members of Parliament as a right because it was suddenly fashionable for people to have such an appliance. Heavens knows what these machines cost. However, we were supplied with a Grundig or some other make of machine and some people dictated letters on them and some did not. The equipment would have cost $200 or perhaps $385. However, when one moved around members' offices one found that some of the machines had been pushed away in a corner. These machines were lost to the bureaucracy, never to be retrieved again in most instances. Before long we find that the machines are superseded and something else takes their place and so on. This is what has happened only in regard to members' offices. Goodness me, does not the whole issue of the accumulation of unneeded and excess quantities of property need a sort of watchdog brief so far as departments are concerned? The ramifications in respect of departments are mammoth. 
We become accustomed to things which take us over. We always have to be restless and throw off the burden of possessions and the great human inclination to want things and to build up the facade of power and strength which is typified by possessions. Indeed, an insidious campaign is taking place around us all the time to the effect that our expectations have to be lifted towards wanting something, always reaching out beyond our grasp, always chasing the advertised product whether we need it or not. That applies to departments as much as it applies to individuals. The report goes on - 
-I think my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler has made a very good point. I remember the previous member for Wakefield used to say: 'You can always tell the size of a man's expense account by the enthusiasm with which he summons the waiter'. I think departments are ready to take on these new contrivances because they are not responsible for the bill which regrettably in these situations finally falls back on the taxpayer. 
I was mentioning the criteria of issues that loomed prominently in respect of the report of the working party of officials as they saw the situation in the United States. The working party went on to refer to overstaffing in relation to work being done. So much of what I have said about other matters can apply to that matterthe sort of furrowed tracks in which people are doing things. I know of one case in which a Minister assiduously put out Press releases. This Minister had the responsibility to account to the whole of the government about certain Press releases. Day after day he checked the Press releases, signed them and approved them. After a long time he said to his departmental head: Where are the manifestations of these Press releases?1 The departmental head said: 'I will have a look at it Minister'. Time went by and the Minister asked again and again. He became impatient and said: 'Before the end of this week I want to know what has happened to these Press releases'. He found out that this alcoholic public servant had taken these faithfully produced Press releases, which had actually been run off on a duplicating machine, stacked up in an office but never released to a newspaper. That public servant was stood down. Public Service regulations would not allow any more to be done to him than to have a dunce 's cap put on him and to be sent out in the corridor for a period. How can these roles continue without anybody really knowing whether they are productive? One would not know unless one was very conscious of what was happening. 
The working party mentioned many other matters which bear mentioning, but I think the matters I have raised are useful. I think the amendments to the legislation are useful and 1 commend the Government in this connection. One thing is certain and that is that the Australian community is entitled to value for money. The days of parasites being tolerated have gone. There is no excuse for anyone not giving value for the services they are being paid to give. 
-The Bill before the House, the Appropriation Bill (No. 2), is a very significant and traditional Bill which, unlike the Appropriation Bill (No. 1), is not debated at great length. Nevertheless, it is important because it is the vehicle for the approval of funds for the Government's public works program. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. I point out that it involves the appropriation of an enormous amount of money-$ 1 , 593,902,000. 
-That is $1.5 billion, in round figures, for expenditure on the construction of public works and buildings, the acquisition of sites and buildings, advances and loans, plant and equipment and grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution. It is appropriate, therefore, that this legislation should command the attention of the Parliament at least for a reasonable period of time. The Bill, in my view, is significant because it epitomises the very essence of the Government's economic philosophy; that is to say, a large amount spent on public works, on the one hand, can have the effect of stimulating the economy and a diminution of funds, on the other hand, can have the converse effect. If there were to be any major Government initiative to stimulate Australia'sflagging economy, it would involve expansion of the public sector of the economy. Yet the main thrust of the Budget is to hobble the public sector, to contract the economy and to curtail the public works program. The Budget, which we have been debating now for some weeks, was to this effect. Under the Budget Government revenue increases by $2,588m but total outlays increase by only $2,067m to $28,870m; that is to say, more than half a billion dollars effectively is taken out of the economy by virtue of those substantial figures, figures of utmost significance in the Budget. 
It seems to me that the Government's economic obsessions are three-fold and they are very much in evidence in the legislation before the House at the moment. There is, firstly, the fixation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with inflation, a fixation that he pursues with great and unrelenting fanaticism. Economic devastation and disaster can be the order of the day, but the Prime Minister persists.  His  pride is at stake, and that is paramount. It is more important to him to retain an unrelenting rigidity in his attitude to inflation than to relent even one iota for the purpose of reducing the very serious and worrying trend of unemployment in this country. 
The second obsession is with the deficit. If the deficit for this financial year were to be retained at 4.3 per cent of gross domestic product, which was the figure last year, instead of being allowed to fall to 3.4 per cent of gross domestic product, an extra $ 1 billion would have been available to stimulate the economy. In other words, the stimulus to the economy from the deficit has been seriously reduced. Then there is the third obsession. This involves a prejudice against the public sector of the economy, a prejudice against public works, the worshipping of the holy cow, the private sector, and certainly a prejudice against the Public Service. Of course, the Public Service knows its friends in the present situation. Never before has there been such a feeling of insecurity and uncertainty about the future and about employment prospects as that which pervades the Public Service at present in almost every department around Australia. What a disgraceful state of affairs it is that people who set out to serve this country with great devotion are relegated to this inferior and degrading status. Public Service staff ceilings are to be reduced further under this Budget because the works program, which is the subject matter of this Appropriation Bill, is to be curtailed under so many significant headings affecting the well-being of the people. We are going to see staff ceilings reduced to bring total staff reductions to 13,250 since the Fraser Government first took office; and we are only in the middle stanza. The trend and the tendency are still going on.' 
Some of my contemporaries opposite have the same attitude as I have. I am not disparaging them all. I am talking about the thrust of the Fraser Government's policy. If anybody has to figurehead this undesirable trend, the Prime Minister has to be the man to accept responsibility for this policy. It is not the policy that is being pursued by progressive countries in the world. It is not the policy that is being pursued by the Government of West Germany whose  President  has been in Canberra recently and which is put up as a kind of example to the mixed economies of the world of how to run things efficiently. The Public Service of that country is not being undermined, retarded or sabotaged; it is not having its morale destroyed. If We just glance at the Schedules to this 'Bill, we will see the frightening ramifications in terms of employment. The employment of many people in the public and private sectors is threatened. We are not talking just about the public sector. When we cut public expenditure we are dealing a very serious blow to large elements of the private sector, which logistically uphold, support and back up the public area. 
Let me mention a few examples. There are 26 major items in this Appropriation Bill, amounting to this $l,593m program. Twenty-six departments are involved. The Department of the Capital Territory is mentioned in Schedule 2. We see that expenditure in respect of that Department is cut from the 1977-78 appropriation of $212.1m to $171.8m- a massive cut here in the Australian Capital Territory. The expenditure last financial year of $ 159.3m for the Department of Health has been cut to $95.4m. 
-Indeed. That amount of $95.4m covers capital works and services programs for the Department of Health and payments to the States. As the member for Parramatta reminds me, there is a curtailment of roughly $60m under the health program. 
Let me deal now with the Capital Works and Services item and the Payments to or for the 
States item for the Department of Social Security. I will not cite the figures in respect of the total expenditure of the Department of Social Security. I am referring to the works component carried out by the Federal and State authorities. Expenditure in this area is down from $68. 7m to $60m. Expenditure in the Department of Veterans' Affairs has decreased from $2 5. 8m to $ 13.1m. Is it any wonder that the Returned Services League is turning sour on the Government? The last bastion, if we like to term it such, of traditional support for the Government is going from under. By jove, just imagine the position of an ex-serviceman dependent on improved hospitalisation under the repatriation or veterans' affairs program. Just imagine, for example, the position of an ex-serviceman dependent on a defence service homes program. Would not that serviceman be a little concerned with a government that was slashing expenditure on veterans' affairs from $25.8m to $13. lm? 
-Obviously. This is an important Bill from many points of view. 
I want to make another point: This Government has set out to cause the terminology 'public sector of the economy' to be regarded as a dirty kind of terminology. It wants to make public expenditure unpopular in the minds of the people. I think that is regrettable. That is what this Appropriation Bill is all about. Insufficient funds are being made available for these public purposes. I want to refer to the Parliament for its consideration this publication I hold in my hand. It is a study in resource allocation by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. It is called  Public Expenditure Trends.  It shows the extent of public support for the economy in Australia on the one hand as against the economy of comparable OECD countries. It contains a summary which deals with the proportion of public expenditure compared with gross domestic product averaged over the three years 1974 to 1976. In Australia, it was 32.8 per cent compared with the OECD average of 41.4 per cent. So Australia is dragging the chain. In Australia the extent to which the public sector is invoked to bolster up a difficult situation is poor compared with the position in other countries. Only in Japan and Spain was total public expenditure less than it was in Australia. In Japan, total public expenditure was shown as 25.1 per cent of gross domestic product. In Spain, it was 25.3 per cent. 
In all other countries with which Australia is comparable, a higher proportion of gross domestic product was used for public expenditure. For example, Canada spent 39.4 per cent of its gross domestic product on public expenditure. The Federal Republic of Germany spent 44 per cent. That is supposed to be a country that inspires the Prime Minister. I hope that figure inspires him. I repeat that in Germany 44 per cent of the gross domestic product is spent on public expenditure. That is the country with the incredibly low level of inflation. Our Prime Minister is saying that if money is spent in the public sector the whole situation will be aggravated. Of course, what he is doing with this obsession is undermining the economy and developing mass unemployment which wil make Australia- this is among the OECD countries- the country with the most potential having the poorest possible result. I repeat again that Germany spends 44 per cent of its gross domestic product on public expenditure. The Netherlands spends 53.9 per cent of its gross domestic product on public expenditure. Sweden, which is not doing too badly in the scheme of things, spends 51.7 per cent, the United Kingdom 44.5 per cent and the United States of America, the land of free enterprise, 35.8 per cent which is about 3 per cent higher than the amount being made available in Australia 
Government spending increased in all OECD countries during the last 15 years. The table before me shows that in Australia during those 15 years- from 1962 to 1975- government expenditure, expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product, increased from 24 per cent to 32 per cent. The expenditure in other countries such as the United States of America and Canada increased steadily above our level. Government expenditure in Germany, the United Kingdom and Sweden increased to the level of 49.4 per cent. 
What we are really talking about in respect of this Appropriation Bill is its inadequacy and the fact that that inadequacy wm contribute to and aggravate even further the serious unemployment position in Australia. Is there any point in talking about the unemployment figures? Everybody knows them today. We know that the Budget, with this Appropriation BUI being a significant part of it, wil expand the level of unemployment by at least an additional 100,000 in the financial year that is under consideration. The position in general terms was that we had 6. 1 per cent of the full-time labour force out of work at 30 September 1978. Some 324,200 people, who are part of that full-time labour force in ordinary circumstances, and 5.9 per cent of the part-time labour force- another 59,000 people- making a total of some 383,700 people are out of work. 
-Nearly 400,000 people are out of work. Many people say that over 600,000 people are out of work because some people do not register as being unemployed. I do not want to get involved in that argument. Heaven knows, the subject has been bandied around a great deal. Perhaps we cannot bandy it around enough. Perhaps that is what the Parliament of this nation is all about- giving the people an opportunity to have jobs, get their houses and live decently. Yet, on that fundamental obligation and responsibility this Government has been found inadequate. 
Let us look at the effects of this Appropriation Bill on employment in the construction industry. The industry is affected very significantly by the Bill which will finance the works program of the nation. We can see the figures in respect of unemployment creeping up steadfastly from 1975. They are very serious figures. At the present time, 119,000 people in the construction industry, other than that part of it which applies to the building of houses, are out of work. This labour force that has been trained at great expense in a country that has so much to do is standing idle and unemployed principally because this Government has failed to do two primary things. One is to give the private sector a reeling of inspiration. The second is actually to facilitate the effective operation of the public sector. Gross private fixed capital expenditure in the construction industry is in a parlous state. Without going into the figures, the effect is this: The expenditure, expressed in 1974-75 prices, in the building and construction area- other than housing- for 1974-75 was $l,943m. In the financial year 1977-78 it declined to $l,610m. In those two years we saw a fall of $333m in the gross private fixed capital expenditure in the construction industry, other than housing. They are serious matters to contemplate. Other figures we can look at will frighten us even further. 
I would Uke now to look closely at the sections of the appropriations that have been seriously curtailed. I have mentioned that the appropriation for the Department of the Capital Territory has been chopped back from $2 12m to $171m, to use round figures. I see that the building works vote for the Australian Capital Territory is down from $638,000 to $410,000. 1 see housing loans in the Australian Capital Territory are down from $9.5m to $8.9m. I see expenditure under the National Capital Development Commission Act is down from $196m to $155m. No wonder there is an unemployment problem in the Australian Capital Territory. No wonder the Housing Industry Association and the Master Builders Association of the ACT are throwing up their hands in despair. No wonder when one drives around Canberra one sees houses and units with For sale' and 'to let' signs in front of them. It is no wonder that one hears stories of deteriorating property values. Here, in Canberra, where there is no chance of the Federal Government engaging in any buckpassing and where the Federal Government has unfetted responsibility, we see a deterioration in momentum. 
If we turn to the appropriations for the Department of Health we find that expenditure is down from $195m to $95.4m. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories has been cut from $6. 5m to $4m. Heaven knows what that is all about! I would be surprised if enough services radiate from the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to justify that reduction of expenditure. The school dental scheme is listed under several headings. For example, the vote item 'School Dental Scheme- Grants for Capital expenditure on training facilities' is down from $243,000 to $40,000. The item 'School Dental SchemeGrants for running costs of training facilities' is down to $4.2m from $6.6m. The scheme was a great Labor initiative. Work under the scheme was to take place over a prescribed period of years so that every school child received adequate dental care. There were to be teams of hygiene therapists to go right around this country. Yet we find this massive cut from $6.6m to $4.2m in the running costs of this program. The item School Dental Scheme- Grants for capital expenditure on clinics' is down from $8.2m to $5m. 
I now turn to the community health program. People who live in Canberra know what this program is about. They know about the wonderful facilities that are in Canberra which again are the result of a Labor initiative which was to spread out from Canberra right through the country. This program would have had employment generating capacity as well as health qualities. That program has been cut from $79m to $5 1.3m. Just imagine what could happen if we took up the leeway and used the money to get the building force working throughout Australia. If we just maintained the level of last year's expenditure there would be an enormous difference not only in terms of employment opportunities but also in overtaking the inadequate facilities that prevail at the present time. 
The legislation also contains an appropriation for the Hospitals development program. I think the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  or the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  ought to explain this figure. Whereas last year $44.5m was spent under this item, no provision is made at all in the current financial year. The total drop in the capital works and services and payment to or for the States divisions under the Department of Health provisions is $63.8m compared with last year. 
So it goes on. Expenditure for the Department of Social Security is down from $68.75m to $60m. I am appalled to note that in this Year of the Child the appropriation for childhood and associated services is down from $53m to $42m. Apart from reductions in works and services I suppose we have all been a bit disturbed to learn that the program which provided maternity allowances and which stood for 66 years in the face of wars, depressions and everything else, is to be eliminated in the Year of the Child. Even grants to or for the States in respect of the capital costs of senior citizens centres have been cut. There has been an actual drop in the childhood and associated services vote of $9,047,000 over last year's appropriation. So, the total drop in the appropriation for capital works and services of the Department of Social Security is $8. 7m. 
The Department of Veterans' Affairs appropriation is a similar story of disaster. In this area, expenditure has been reduced from $25. 8m to $13. 1m. There have been cuts in funds for repatriation blocks at mental hospitals under the building and works vote. Expenditure for defence service homes is down from $22m to $ 1 0m. 
-I notice that the honourable member for Barton nods his head with some enthusiasm. I do not know what he responds to ex-servicemen who tell us that they have to wait for the best part of a year before their application for a loan is dealt with. Of course servicemen have now been told that instead of having to serve for just three years they now have to serve for six years and sign on for another three years to be eligible for a defence service home loan. 
In any event, in general terms and in actual dollar terms the building and works vote under the Department of Veterans' Affairs has been cut by close enough to $412,000. That is not a big figure in itself. The plant and equipment vote has been cut by $387,000 and the Defence service homes vote, as I have mentioned, has been cut by $12m. The total drop in expenditure is $ 12.695m. The contents of this appropriation 
Bill, normally regarded as a fairly innocuous piece of legislation, are symbolic of the program of a government which has lost its verve, any objectivity and any idea as to how it can assist. The Government has virtually abdicated its role. It is a private enterprise government- a laissez faire government- which is prepared to say: 'We will leave things to the private sector'. But it so happens that things do not always synchronise in the private sector to the extent that is necessary to keep people in employment and to keep us progressing towards higher living standards. In that kind of situation where spontaneity is not there, one needs government initiatives. That is what governments are all about. Instead of abdicating from responsibility for the economy and instead of curtailing public works programs, the Government should move in with its moderating influence. We have found a government that has actually thrown away the very weapon that it could use to wage war on the lethargic state in which we see the economy today. This is a tragic scene; we have a tragic Prime Minister. The people know it is tragic. That is why we have seen a succession of adverse public reactions against this Government. We have seen what happened in the Werriwa by-election and in the New South Wales State elections. That is what will happen in the Ballarat by-election in Victoria. We saw the same result in local government elections last Saturday. I think that this applies to your own electorate of Scullin,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I conclude simply by saying that this legislation is a disgraceful measure in that it demonstrates that the Government has no confidence or enthusiasm about the powers with which it has been equipped by the Australian people to get on with the job of stimulating our economy. The sooner that people realise there is no future in the Fraser Government, the better it will be not just for the present generation of Australians but for all those young people in whom we have our hope. All those young people will have no future unless there is a decent public works program and a decent public sector in the Australian economy. If there is not, we can wrap up the whole show and give it away. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
How many persons in receipt of social security fringe benefits became ineligible for those benefits following cost of living rises to the rates of social security benefits and the Government's failure to index the fringe benefits means test level during (a) 1975-76,(b) 1976-77 and (c) 1977-78. 
-The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  said that Tasmania has never had it so good. If he is basing that statement simply on the fact that we have the benefit of him here rather than the Tasmanians having the benefit of him in Tasmania, then I can well understand it. He takes the view that the harder he harangues, the noisier he is and the more he distorts figures, the more he adds to the veracity of a discredited statement, which is without any factual foundation. I challenge him on the very premise of what he has put. This honourable member has a reputation, probably in excess of anyone in the House, for putting things into poor and distorted perspective. He is reeking with parochialism. I have never heard him make a speech on an Australia-wide scale. All his efforts are directed to vote winning exercises, which indicates the degree of insecurity from which he suffers. He also seems to confuse the fact that Tasmania's share of the national cake in any event is infinitesimal compared with the national scene. More importantly, the figures he has given cannot stand up to examination. I refer to figures from official Budget Paper No. 7, headed Payments to or for the States, the Northern Territory and Local Government Authorities 1978-79. 1 seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  Table 120. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811080_39_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="112131197811080_40_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="112131197811080_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. These figures show that the honourable member for Denison has taken one set of figures in respect of Tasmania to arrive at the12 per cent increase factor which he has talked about. That set of figures comes under the heading of General Revenue Funds where there is in fact an increase of 12 per cent. However, as we go though these figures we find that he has disregarded many other headings of great significance. It appears that he has done this deliberately for the express purpose of fooling the people of Tasmania. For example, the next heading is General Purpose Capital Funds and the figure for Tasmania for the year ended 1 977-78 is $ 100.4m. For the next year, that is the year that is now under review, the figure is again $ 100.4m. So under the heading General Purpose Capital Funds there is no increase at all. When we come to the heading Total Specific Purpose Payments we see that the figure for Tasmania for the last financial year was $ 164.7m and for this financial year the figure is $16 1.2m. This is a significant drop. The honourable member for Denison failed to mention that. There are a number of headings.I will not have time to deal with them all. The honourable member for Denison will concede that the important figure is the total figure taking all these headings into account. The Budget Papers, under the heading 'Total Payments and Loan Council Borrowings' show that the borrowing program for Tasmania for the year 1977-78 $479m and for the current financial year is $501m. If the honourable member for Denison has a calculator he will soon establish - 
-Do not say it is wrong. Here it is. It has been tabled. It is going in  Hansard.  Go and get it. 
-I am quoting from Budget Paper No. 7 at page 189, the official figures for Tasmania under the heading 'Total payments and Loan Council Borrowings'. The figure for the year 1977-78 is $479,392,000. For the current year it is $50 1 , 894,000. If the honourable member cares to get out his calculator he will find that that represents an increase, not of 12 per cent as he has been saying right through his speech- indeed, that was the burden of his speech- but 4.7 per cent. Worse still, he failed to mention that the overall increase for Australia, as indicated by the same table, is 5.2 per cent. So Tasmania has done significantly worse than has the rest of Australia. Indeed, the whole of Australia has done extremely badly because the increase that I have quoted, 4.7 per cent, applies in an inflationary situation. That leaves the honourable member for Denison without the proverbial feather with which to fly. As I was about to say, he believes that his harangue, the velocity with which he spills out his words of misrepresentation, should convince us that he is representing the essence of the case. In doing that he does himself and his Party a grave disservice. 
He has also sought to justify recent developments whereby an increased borrowing program, to the extent of $ 1,767m, has been made available to the States. There will be, in the course of this debate, a tendency to distort the significance of that development and those figures as well, but we ought to take into account that six States are to share in that borrowing program, which is to extend over 12 major projects. We ought to recognise that it represents a 3 per cent increase in total borrowing this year by the States, but it is to be spent over a period of eight years. Therefore it is of much less consequence than the honourable member for Denison, and probably others who will follow me, would be inclined to point out. 
Let me reiterate that the purpose of the Bill is to authorise the payment to the States in this financial year of capital grants totalling $477.9m, and the borrowing of the necessary amount by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  This had its genesis at a Premiers Conference in June 1970 when it was determined that a portion of the States Loan Council program would take the form of interestfree non-payable grants rather than interestbearing State borrowings. This decision was a reflection of the increased burden which the States were facing as a result of accumulating debt-servicing charges. Another motivation was the fact that the States were expending large sums on capital works from which debt charges or interest could not readily be recovered. For example, whereas debt charges on a State transport service could possibly be recouped, they could hardly be recovered on the capital cost of, say, a school, police station or other nonrevenue producing project. So, commencing in the year 1975-76, capital grants to the extent of one-third of the States Loan Council program were paid to them on an annual basis. 
At the Loan Council meeting in June 1978 a total Loan Council program of $ 1,433.8m was determined and, accordingly, a capital grant of one-third of that amount is to be authorised under this Bill. Regrettably, despite substantial increases in Commonwealth revenue from taxation and charges and from loan raising, this figure, $447. 9m is exactly the amount that was allocated in the previous year. Therefore in this respect, the grant that is made availablewithout servicing charges- represents no increase at all. No account was taken of inflation and of the fact that the same amount, when allocated for this financial year, would purchase less than it did in the previous year. The need to enable the States to play a part in stimulating the economy by undertaking an expanded capital works program was obviously disregarded. The only possible sequel to this decision is a curtailment of that segment of the work force, both public and private, that services State capital works. That, of course, is the regrettable feature of this legislation. 
Budget Paper No. 7, at page 8, table 4, shows that the percentage increase in funds made available to the States by the Commonwealth in 1978-79 over those for 1977-78 was of little consequence. If we refer to the figures for General Revenue Funds we find that the increase is 10 per cent. Under General Purpose Capital Funds we note that there has been no increase. Again, the borrowing programs of the larger State authorities are up by 14.5 per cent, but total State borrowings are up by 5.6 per cent. Overall, under this Budget the States have been deprived. The revenue of the Commonwealth Government has risen by $2,588m or 11 per cent. Outlays have risen by $2,067m. Total Budget outlays have increased by 7.7 per cent. Commonwealth spending has risen by 9.3 per cent, but State spending has been held to a growth rate of only 5.1 percent. 
Two things are very apparent. The first is the Fraser Government's direct support of the private sector, which is treated as a holy cow. The second is the determination, regardless of the consequences to Australia, to undermine the public sector. For example, if we examine the private sector and the investment allowance we find that the cost of that allowance is to increase from $325m last year to $410m in the current financial year. In comparison, the capital grants to the States, as contained in this Bill, have been reduced in real terms by 6.8 per cent. Approved Loan Council borrowing programs have been reduced by 6.8 per cent, and General Purpose Capital Funds by 6.8 per cent, on the basis that the implicit price deflator for 1978-79 will be the same as that for 1977-78. Therefore, there is a reduction in the real purchasing value of the grants made to the States. That can be calculated and is demonstrated by a table which has been made available by the research officers of the Parliamentary Library. I seek approval to incorporate the table in  Hansard.  It has been made generally available and is headed General Purpose Capital Funds for State Governments, 1974-75 to 1978-79. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811080_43_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Let us convert this table into real terms in relation to 1974-75 price levels and applying those terms consistently. It shows under the heading Improved Loan Council Borrowing Programs ' that from 1975-76 to 1978-79 the figure has dropped from $750m to $64 lm. Under the heading 'Capital Grants' the table shows that for the same four years from 1975-76 the figure dropped from $375m to $320m. Under the heading: 'Total General Purpose Capital Funds' the table shows that for the same period the figure has dropped from $l.lm to $962,284. These figures show a cutback in capital grants to the States- the public sector-at a time when the investment allowance is an indication of capital grants to the private sector of the economy. 
One wonders why this Government persistently upholds this favouritism on the one hand and prejudice on the other. This policy has had very serious effects in the employment scene throughout Australia. The national figures issued in October last show that 6. 1 per cent of the full time labour force in Australia is out of work and that 5.9 per cent of the part time labour force in 
Australia is out of work. These figures represent an increase of more than 50,000 over the figure for the same time the previous year and do not take into account the number of people not registered as unemployed or those who have gone into involuntary retirement. I have before me the final figures made available by the Australian Bureau of Statistics as to the effect that this Government's program has had on the building and construction industry. I refer to the period from 30 June 1975 to 31 March 1978. We see that at 30 June 1975 65,000 people were working in the dwellings industry. That figure has fallen to 59,000. We see under the heading 'Other Buildings' that the related labour force has fallen from 58,000 to 52,000 and we see under the heading 'Repairs and Maintenance' that the related labour force has fallen from 8,000 to 7,000. Under those three headings we see that in the period from June 1975 to March 1978 there has been a total fall in the labour force from 142,900 to 1 1 9,500. As I see it, this is where the chickens really come home to roost. 
The situation is that the States have been having a very rough time under this Government. We see that the States are being put against one another in a way that leaves them to fight their way out of this difficult situation. For example, Queensland and Western Australia, two vast States which have a small population, have virtually been operating against each other and contrary to the national interest by selling off to foreign interests the minerals which come from within their State borders. The result has been that 85 per cent of Queensland's mining production is under foreign control and over 59 per cent of Western Australian mining is also under foreign control. Under the 'new federalism' policy this program is accelerated as the States are deliberately starved of necessary funds. They are pushed into the open arms of foreign capital. 
If we have a look at the figures we see the extent to which the Australian economy has been taken over by foreign interests as a result of this Government's policies. We find that the manufacturing industry in Australia is now 34 per cent foreign owned; the finance industry is 4 1 per cent foreign owned; general interests are 38 per cent foreign owned; the advertising industry is 5 1 per cent foreign owned; and so it goes on. Such is this Government's antipathy to public enterprise and public ownership. It prefers to sell Australia's birthright. We see resources worth thousands of millions of dollars being turned over to overseas owners and overseas entrepreneurs. If this policy continues, there is no doubt that it will continue to the detriment of the Australian people. Many benefits which otherwise would accrue to this community will be lost, and not just while this Government remains in office. It will have a permanent scarring effect on the well being of the Australian community. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) What were the nationalities of applicants approved for immigration under the entrepreneur policy up to 30 June 1978. 
Has the Government received notice that any approved applicant has transferred funds to Australia in a manner which contravenes the exchange control regulations or any other regulations of the country of origin concerned. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government been approached by other countries or international organisations or groups for its views on or participation in the building of a spent nuclear fuel storage centre in the Pacific region. 
If so, will the Government provide full details, and, in particular, itemise the countries which have made the approach to the areas which are under consideration and the estimated cost and capacity of the centre. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Has the Government adopted or does it intend to adopt the United States Environment Protection Agency Standards promulgated in 1977 relating to the exposure of members of the public to radiation in the environment from the normal operation of the nuclear power cycle; if not, why not. 
-Much of what was stated by the previous  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  makes sense and I do not find myself at variance with him. The House has five Bills before it at the present time. It is extremely complex legislation. It is sufficient to say that despite this legislation and its ultimate passage through the Parliament, the Governnent will be found to be ineffective and innocuous in legislating against the various well known tax avoidance schemes. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has indicated that he will move an amendment at a later stage. It implies that there will be a continued operation of a large scale tax avoidance industry. This is creating grave inequities in the incidence of taxation. Indeed, the schemes are also having the effect of substantially reducing government revenue. 
I will just make brief mention of some of the Bills before us. The first one is the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3). This Bill deals with and clarifies the position of entitlement of employers to deductions for the cost of their employees' long service, annual and other leave entitlements. The Bill puts beyond doubt that an employer is entitled to claim as a deduction in the year payment was made any payments made to employees for long service leave, et cetera. The Government's decision to amend the Act by this Bill is based on two factors. The first is, the Victorian Supreme Court decision in the case of Nilsen Development Laboratories Pty Ltd v. the Federal Commissioner of Taxation which held that an employer was able to claim a deduction in respect of a liability to pay long service leave to employees for any one year the liability accrued even though no actual payment was made to employees in that year. The revenue implications of not legislating to meet that position would mean a loss to the Treasury of approximately $600m next financial year. It is gratifying at least to note that the Bill does not affect the employees' tax position. The Government has indicated that it intends to legislate further, depending on the results of the appeal in the Nilsen case. No doubt we will hear more of this matter in the future. 
The next Bill with which we are dealing is the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) which deals with tax avoidance schemes. They are schemes relating to, for example, current year losses. That is a practice of buying loss companies and offsetting these losses against profits of companies owned. The schemes also deal with rebates on dividends received as part of dividend stripping operations and branch profit tax. Companies could avoid tax liability by firstly claiming a full rebate of tax on dividends received in the course of dividend stripping and also a deduction for the loss on sale of shares after value had been dropped because of the loss of the dividend. This Bill introduces tax measures designed to promote investment in Australian films. It also amends the period of distribution by the liquidators of private companies and alters the appeal provisions for deregistered agents. The provisions designed to prevent tax avoidance through dividend stripping are to operate from 7 April 1978 which was the date on which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced the Government's decision to act. This issue, of course, invoked the controversial retrospectivity factor which has already been thrashed out in this Parliament 
The Income Tax (Non-Resident Companies) Bill 1978 imposes a 5 per cent branch profits tax on the taxable income of non-resident companies to bring into line companies operating in Australia but which, for tax purposes, are resident overseas, with companies resident in Australia which are liable for dividend withholding tax on profit remittance. In his statement on this tax, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said that the purpose of the Bill was to ensure that the benefit Australia obtains from foreign investment by way of tax revenue is not reduced because of the form in which operations are conducted here. Branch profit taxes are imposed by other countries and such a tax was recommended for Australia by the Asprey Committee some time ago. 
The Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Act is not imposing the branch profit tax. Another machinery Bill, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill 1978, similarly makes it clear that the Income Tax (Rates) Act 1976 does not impose a branch profit tax. We now come to this tax avoidance issue which is a main theme of the legislation. It is certainly the main theme of the debate and it revolves around the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2). This Bill continues the stated Government objective of closing off tax avoidance schemes. I commend the Treasurer for taking this action. He says that he intends to continue to act against avoidance schemes. I am not conceding by any means that sufficient has been done in this regard. Severe budgetary problems are probably the motive for the Government's action. I think it is necessary to say that the government's formed by the Liberal and Country parties during the long 23 years of unbroken government that they enjoyed did not make any significant moves to close the tax avoidance scheme. Even when in Opposition the coalition failed to press or call for legislation against tax avoidance schemes. This Opposition has called for a concerted approach to tax avoidance schemes and not just a piecemeal approach or a one-off approach. We think that there is a good example in evidence but we want to see more done. 
Last month, the Treasurer was asked whether the Government would consider amending section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1 978. This section was designed to catch all the schemes to avoid taxation. Honourable members will know the main theme of the section. A little notation beside section 260 of the Act describes the provisions as, 'Contracts to evade tax void'. That is the position in a nutshell. I shall summarise that section briefly. It states that every contract, agreement, or arrangement altering the incidence of any income tax, relieving any person from liability to pay, defeating, evading or avoiding any duty or liability, preventing the operations of this Act in any respect shall be absolutely void. That is the effect of section 260. This section, notwithstanding the clear expression of the words which would seem to the layman to be fairly watertight, has been emasculated over the years by judicial interpretation. More than 20 years ago  Mr Justice  Kitto said in the case of the 
Federal Commissioner of Taxation v. Newton, (1956): 
Section 260 is a difficult provision, inherited from earlier legislation, and long overdue for reform by someone who will take the trouble to analyse his ideas and define his intentions with precision before putting pen to paper. 
This message, despite its clarity, seems not to have reached its intended destination up to this time. In the recent case of Cridland v. Commissioner of Taxation ( 1978) it was stated: 
Although the very restricted operation conceded to s. 260 by the course of judicial decision and the generality of the language in which the section is expressed stand in high contrast, the construction of the section is now settled. It is therefore a source of some surprise that it continues to be relied upon when its defects and deficiencies have been apparent for so long. 
When the issue of amending section 260 was put to the Treasurer he said that it was not an easy matter and it ought not to be assumed, given interpretations of revenue statutes, that it is simply a question of re-arranging some of the words. As indicated, Justice Kitto thought otherwise over 20 years ago. No amending legislation has been put forward by successive governments. The Whitlam Labor Government, facing a hostile Senate, did not have any hope of passing such legislation. Anything that it tried to do to redress injustices of this kind at that time was blocked in the Senate. If the Fraser Government is fair dinkum about tax avoidance schemes it must legislate to change this section. The Australian community should not have to wait much longer to see it happen. A suitable amendment to the following effect would not be opposed: If transactions, dealings or financial affairs of a taxpayer are artificial or contrived, the tax liability of the taxpayer concerned may be determined according to the commercial realities; provided of course that machinery for judicial appeal remained to protect the individual from the Commissioner's excesses. 
One would not want the bureaucracy to be able to run riot. There has to be some checkpoint, some redress. Therefore that appeal provision would be essential. The Opposition's priority for tax reform is motivated by a sense of tax equity not, as is the case with the Government, by the sole need to increase tax receipts. The taxation system that is operating in this country at this time is not equitable. It has manifestly failed to distribute wealth. One per cent of the Australian population owns 22 per cent of all wealth in Australia, five per cent of the population owns 40 per cent of all wealth and ten per cent of the population owns 60 per cent of all wealth, according to a survey that was conducted recently by an Australian university. This means that the wealthiest 2,000 people in Australia own as much as the poorest 2,232,000 people. 
Tax revenue for the year 1977-78 amounted to 91 per cent of total receipts. This is estimated to rise marginally to 91.2 per cent this financial year. Pay-as-you-earn taxation which was collected last year was 41.1 per cent, other individual taxes were 10.6 per cent, giving a total individual tax component of 5 1.7 per cent of total tax receipts. Company taxes collected were 13.7 per cent and other indirect taxes brought in 25.6 per cent of tax revenue. This year's Budget is expected to bring in tax revenue in the following proportions- some changes are worth noting: 39.7 per cent from pay-as-you-earn taxation, that is, direct tax- a marginal drop; ten per cent from individual taxpayers- a slightly larger drop; 12.9 per cent from companies- once again a drop; and 28.6 per cent from other indirect taxes- a significant increase indeed, that is, from 25.6 per cent. The shift from direct taxation to indirect taxation is apparent. 
The Government's response is to legislate against the most blatant tax avoidance schemes on a one-off basis, such as the Curran scheme and the schemes that have been legislated against in Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 and proceed to this new emphasis. We all know what it is about. We have seen early manifestations of it. First of all, we have seen as a result of the Budget the raising of individual tax by 8 per cent. I think that represented a tax grab of $570m, breaking all the promises that were made at election time. Then there was this trend towards increased indirect taxes with the raising of the excise on beer, cigarettes, spirits and petrol. Government expenditure was reduced by shifting the cost of services and facilities, which were previously paid for by governments from tax receipts, directly on to the individual. I refer of course to the health scheme and pre-school centres where the consumer is being required to contribute more in a direct way. The reduction in the social wage means that taxpayers have to spend more of their take home pay on services that were previously and traditionally provided by government. 
The Government's taxing policy is not based on equity or substantial reform; it is based on minor reform of blatant abuse in order to keep the inequitable system intact. It is for this reason that the Government, with its budgetary restraint, is seeking to introduce new indirect taxes, such as the retail turnover tax and the value added- the VAT- tax. We are mindful that it has failed its public relations exercise concerning a reduction of taxation with the Budget decision to increase direct taxes by 8 per cent. The Treasurer talks of introducing more indirect taxes in order to change the mix of tax in the community. The effects of last year's indirect tax slugs on beer, spirits and cigarettes have meant that consumers will pay an extra $500m a year. The excise on beer has gone up by 31.8 per cent, from 29.2c a bottle to 38.5c a bottle. Of course that involves an extra tax on beer of $222m. The tax on whisky has increased by 83.5 per cent, from $2.91 to $5.34 a bottle. The tax on brandy has increased from $3.06 to $5.63 a bottle. The extra revenue collected from spirits is $139m. The tax on cigarettes was increased by 35 per cent, from 34.6c to 46.8c a packet. That means an extra take of $ 1 36m. The tax on petrol is up 6 per cent, from 4.9c to 5.2c a litre. 
In the last three years the cost of beer has increased from 54c to 77c a bottle; the cost of cigarettes has increased from 74c to 89c a packet; and the cost of petrol has increased from 14.5c to over 19c a litre. Pay-as-you-earn taxpayers and individual taxpayers pay for these increases from their take home pay. An introduction of new indirect taxes will increase the price of these goods and other goods even more significantly in the future. If the Government decides to introduce a retail turnover tax the prices of all goods, including food and clothing, are likely to rise. The tax burden on all Australians, regardless of their ability to pay, will rise uniformly. This means that a disproportionate tax burden will fall on those Australians who are least able to pay. It actually means a drop in the standard of living of the majority of Australians. 
It means that an intolerable burden would be placed on retailers and small shopkeepers who would become the tax gatherers of the nation. It would be a great time-consuming, administratively costly and unwieldy process. It would be a most ridiculous arrangement which anyone who travels overseas finds to be most repugnant. Depending precisely on how this tax would be collected, it could mean that shoppers would be very seriously inconvenienced. It is no wonder that members of parliament have pouring into our electorate offices these letters of protest. No wonder petitions are being circulated, quite justifiably, by the retail traders associations and other organisations. I sound this note of warning because the Fraser Government has failed to be effective in closing off tax avoidance schemes. It has gained such unpopularity because of its broken promises in regard to giving remissions on direct taxation and is now going to move towards the surreptitious, the sneaky, tax. It knows about the Australian hip pocket nerve and it will bring this new emphasis to bear where the unsuspecting Australian will have the Treasurer's hands sneaking into his pocket when he does not know much about it. This involves the abandonment of the principle of capacity to pay which has been inherent as the main philosophical cornerstone of our taxation system through the years. I warn the Australian people that the Fraser Government is intent on this process. If it goes unchecked, the living standards of all Australians will be seriously impaired. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What was (a) the number and (b) the nationality of persons who failed to leave Australia after the expiration of (i) their tourist visas or (ii) their authorised period of temporary stay during (A) 1975, (B) 1976, (C) 1977 and (D) the period 1 January to 30 June 1 978. 
On a nationality basis, what percentage of the persons allowed temporary entry (a) failed to leave Australia after the expiration of their authorised period of temporary stay and (b) were deported. 
-On behalf of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the Opposition I would like to say a few words about the Life Insurance Amendment Bill. The Bill deals with the terms and conditions of employment of the Life Insurance Commissioner. The Life Insurance Commissioner has the function of administering the Life Insurance Act 1945, which oversees the operation of life insurance companies operating in Australia. Previously, the holder of this position has also held the post of Australian Government Actuary and the conditions of employment have been determined under the Public Service Act. Now, commendably, the job of Life Insurance Commissioner has been split from the job of Actuary. In the view of the Opposition, this move can only add to the efficiency of the person holding the position. 
The Bill is designed to enable the conditions of employment to be determined under the Life Insurance Act. This will bring the position into line with similar provisions for other statutory office holders. The conditions of employment, as cited in the Bill, are to be commended and involve the following: Time in office is limited to seven years but the Commissioner is eligible for reappointment. The age limit is to be 65 years. The Commissioner may not be a director or employee of a life insurance company or related company. The salary shall be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. The Commissioner shall not engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office without the Treasurer's consent. He shall give a written notification of any pecuniary interests. The Governor-General can determine the Commissioner's appointment if the Commissioner becomes bankrupt or contravenes the Act. Similar conditions apply to the appointment of an Acting Commissioner. 
These conditions are well thought out to ensure that the Commissioner is well able to oversee the operation of the industry. As I have said, the Opposition regards these as very worthwhile amendments to the legislation. They will improve it. They provide very effective safeguards. For those reasons the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
Will the Government consider liberalising the means test for unemployed persons currently at $6 per week for a married couple, after which the benefit is reduced on a dollar for dollar earned basis, to bring it in line with the means test for other social security benefits; if not, why not. 
-The statement just made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  could best be described as ambiguous. The House is being asked to suspend the 1 1 o'clock rule in order that some statements can be made. I think the Minister ought to make it plain to the House what the statements are in the first instance. Then he should try to indicate why it is so important to suspend the 11 o'clock rule so that those statements can be dealt with tonight rather than tomorrow. There is a saying to the effect that men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. That saying is of biblical extraction. I should not imagine it is out of order. 
-I should not imagine that it is out of order at all. It could even be appropriate; I do not know, and I do not think anyone else could know, including the Government Whip who is interjecting. In other words, we are being asked to rubber stamp a proposal that we suspend the 11 o'clock rule so that we can deal with some statements about which we know nothing. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What are the radioactive material and toxic chemicals buried in the area fenced off by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in 1959, approximately 1 kilometre northwest of the Commission's research establishment, Lucas Heights, NSW (question No. 806,  Hansard,  25 May 1978, page 2567). 
What is the on surface background radiation reading of this site. 
What is the radiation reading one third of a metre below the surfance 
What is the underground radiation reading immediately above points where radioactivity material is buried. 
Are the radioactive material and toxic chemicals buried on the site totally confined to the enclosed area. 
If not, (a) what other areas have been affected, (b) how did the radioactive material or toxic chemical waste enter the atmosphere or leave the site and (c) what measures are being taken to ensure that the material is contained within the site. 
Does the Government accept the proposition that radioactive and toxic material of the type buried on this site could be safely disposed of at municipal garbage dums 
If so, (a) has any material of this type been disposed of in any NSW municipal garbage dump and (b) what is the justification of an annual expenditure of $1,300 on the maintenance of this existing site. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 21  (Hansard,  21 September 1978, page 1336), (a) why is it not possible to give details of Australian Government funded resource projects in the field of alternative energy sources and (b) what sums have been expended on research into alternative energy sources during each year from 1 966 to 1 978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on IS November 1978: 
What sum for advertising and services was spent on behalf of all Departments by the Government advertising service during 1976-77 and the periods (a) 11 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1977 to date. 
What total sums were paid to each advertising agency and consultants used by the service during the same periods. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the statement of the Minister for Defence that he was the custodian of the records relating to the Maralinga Tests and that is where his ministerial responsibilities started and ended. 
If so, which Minister has responsibility for (a) the maintenance of the area where waste is buried, (b) the disposal of any radioactive material at Maralinga and other areas such as Emu and Monte Bello and (c) taking the necessary steps to ensure that the full knowledge of the existence of the material is passed from Government to Government and from generation to generation. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
How many (a) small businesses went bankrupt or into liquidation and (b) non-business bankruptcies or arrangements with creditors occurred during 1 977-78. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What were the gross loan raisings by the Commonwealth Government and Government instrumentalities on a transaction by transaction basis during (a) the period 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (b) 1976-77, (c) 1977-78 and (d) the period 1 July 1978 to date. 
For each of these transactions (a) what sums were repatriated to Australia and (b) what were the annual rates of interest and charges paid during the same periods and years. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) From where does the Australian Atomic Energy Commission obtain its enriched fuel for the H.I.F.A. Reactor at the research establishment at Lucas Heights, N.S.W. 
How is the enriched fuel transported to Lucas Heights. 
In what form, and in what type of containers is the enriched fuel carried. 
What security measures are in force in the transport of the enriched fuel. 
What measures does the Government take to ensure that workers involved in the transport of enriched fuel and the general public are (a) provided with adequate security and (b) not exposed to health risks. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
How many times and on what occasions and dates have US Defence installations in Australia been placed on alert status since 1965. 
On which occasions was the Prime Minister informed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
What allocations have been made or are intended to be made to each of the States and Territories for the preparation of school material designed to contribute towards a greater understanding and awareness of the problems created by the arms race and of the need for disarmament. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
Has authority been given to the Commonwealth Police, ASIO or other Government bodies to monitor telephone calls during the period 1 1 November 1 975 to date. 
If so, (a) how many times was an authority given, (b) for how long was the authority operative in each case, (c) on what grounds was authority granted in each case, (d) in what (i) suburbs in capital cities and (ii) towns were the monitored telephones situated and (e) how many telephones are being currently monitored under the authority. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
What percentage of (a) total exports from Australia and (b) total imports to Australia was carried by Australian flag vessels during each of the years 1 966 to date. 
What percentage of Australian mineral exports is carried by Australian flag vessels. 
What government measures, direct or indirect, have been taken to assist Australian-owned national merchant shipping. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In relation to the proposed 200 nautical mile fishing zone, when will the detailed regulations be drawn up and made available. 
Will it be a condition to the granting of a fishing license that the enterprise have a minimum of 5 1 per cent Australian capital. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What radio-active material is buried at Emu and Monte Bello. 
What is the life span of these materials and of any containers in which the material is buried. 
Honourable members are obviously confused about the intention of the contribution made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh). 
-I think that the less the honourable member says the better. The only contribution made by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  to the debate so far has been to propose that we treble the fares for the Brisbane bus service. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Brisbane will remain silent. The honourable member for Hughes will address his remarks to the Chair. 
-If the honourable member for Brisbane's verbosity was legislation, we would be making a great deal of progress at present. 
-Instead of that - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, is this man able to control himself at all? 
-I think I should remind the House that we are debating the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Amendment Bill. It is a Bill of some complexity. I can understand that the honourable gentleman lost track of it a long time ago. I just say that the legislation is not of world shattering consequence. It will certainly not alleviate the many difficulties being experienced around Australia in the area of urban public transport. I do not think anybody has been contending that we are going to get a great rash of express lanes for buses in the great capital cities as we have in Canberra, where we have express buses to boot. No radical changes of that kind are contemplated or mooted. I do not think anyone is starting to envisage a new system of monorails or rapid rail, the kind of development we see in the less developed parts of the world- in Europe and in other places. I do not think we are going to see many projects that will provide large scale parking at railway stations for the urban commuters who walk sometimes half a mile or more to get to a train service. No government supporter has even talked hopefully about this kind of development. There is not going to be much upgrading of our second class railway stations, which are a disgrace no matter in what part of Australia they operate. It is just incredible that decades ago we were able to build them. These days in most States of Australia we are even having trouble giving them a coat of paint. Of course, there is no talk of our extending railways lines. Why, our forebears built the railway lines in this country. It is just amazing that despite the urban development that took place in 1978 we find very little in the way of extensions of railway systems. There are even inadequate provisions for road transport systems- bus systems and the like. 
This Government is guilty of having abandoned the sensible approach to urban development and all the related provisions that should go with it. Obviously, it should be thinking in terms of growth centres and the concentrations of population on main routes having regard to reticulation of water, sewerage and all the other essential public facilities. But that kind of program was thrown right out of the window with the change of government that took place on 11 November 1975. I do not think that in most States we are likely to see any upgrading of the ramshackle rolling stock, the kind of inadequate railway systems that caused the Granville disaster. Regrettably, that is the kind of situation that could occur in many places because of the years of neglect that have passed. I have regard for the railway system in Wollongong which is one of our great provincial cities, one of our great money-earning cities, the steel city of Australia. It is a city of coal producers, a city of some 300,000-odd people which is making a very great contribution to the well-being of this nation. There we have one of the most antiquated railway systems that we would see in any part of the world. It is virtually a rolling museum. You find people travelling for hours to get from Sydney to Wollongong. 
The State Wran Government is now attempting to do something about it, to offset all those years of indifference and neglect. We had hoped to get some lead from the Fraser Government, through the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  as to how we might bring Australia's public transport provisions into the twentieth century. Regrettably, he has been found wanting. The fact that emerges is that public transport does not enjoy a high priority with the Fraser Government. 
This Bill, which amends the State Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1978, actually reduces in real terms, the sums allocated to the States to upgrade public transport. It is a Bill of deferment of obligation, one which diminishes the real value of commitment. In the short time that I have to speak tonight I will explain that statement further. The deferment of Commonwealth payments to the States totalling $25m, means that the States will not, over 1978-79 and 1979-80, be able to obtain funds on a needs basis for recognised projects. The purchase of muchneeded equipment will have to be deferred. When such purchase ultimately becomes possible less will be obtainable for the same amount of money. As we all understand the situation, because of the problems that are emerging in the energy area, there will be an increasing dependence on public transport and obviously the Government should be orienting its expenditure towards that objective. It should not be forgotten that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  by deferring payments to the States for public transport, is breaking a specific 1977 election promise to provide $60m annually over five years for urban public transport in all States. In his policy statement of 21 November 1977 the Prime Minister said that in 1978-79 his Government would expand existing programs by providing for a grant of $60m annually for the next five years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I call the honourable member for Brisbane. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! Is the honourable member taking a point of order? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)What is the point of order? I trust the honourable member is not wasting time. 
-He is wasting time. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government carried out any tests to determine whether any area in Australia is sufficiently stable geologically for the storing of radioactive waste. If so, what areas have been under study. 
What other areas have been the subject of study for the storage of waste on an interim basis. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
How much radioactive waste is in temporary storage in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What has been the cost of (a) treatment of effluent which is discharged into the Woronora River from the AAEC establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW, and (b) monitoring the Moronora River to check that the effluent meets proper safety standards during each of the last 5 years. 
What is the estimated cost of connecting the AAEC establishment to the sewerage system. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 11 October 1978: 
1 ) Further to his undertaking to distribute Environmental Survey Reports compiled by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission  (Hansard,  22 August 1978, page 593), will the Government consider employing more staff to ensure that no delay occurs in the compilation of the  records  in the  future. 
Ifnot, why not 
When will the delayed reports be available to the public. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 19 October 1978: 
In relation to the survey reports on the health of present and past employees in the Research Establishment of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights (a) how many persons have been employed to carry out the studies for the second and subsequent reports and (b) when will the second report be completed and made available to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What is the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's estimate of the annual radiation dose which a member of the local population receives from (a) the general environment and (b) from the atmosphere only, as a result of the discharge of radio-active material from the Research Establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Have the standards of the International Commission on Radiological Protection been exceeded in any respect by those of the National Health and Research Council at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's Research Establishment at Lucas Heights NSW in the setting of (a) radiation exposure limits for workers and members of the local population and (b) levels for radioactive discharges to the environment. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What are the estimated exposure pathways for radioactive emissions released to the general environment from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's Research Establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) What standards apply to the exposure of members of the public to radiation in the environment from the operation of the nuclear reactors at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's research establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW. 
Has the Government adopted or does it intend to adopt the United States Environment Protection Agency standards promulgated in 1977 in relation to nuclear reactors operating at Lucas Heights; if not why not. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice; on 16 August 1978: 
Are atmospheric discharges from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's research establishment at Lucas Heights, New South Wales, included in estimating radiation exposure to workers and residents in the neighbourhood; if so, what are the exposure pathways for tritium and iodine-131 and other radioactive products vented to the environment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) What difficulties would the Federal Government have to overcome in order to make it obligatory for doctors who do not bulk bill to itemise on each account sent topatients the actual scheduled fee so thatpatients can better know how much over this fee they are being charged. 
Has any consideration been given to this matter by the Federal and State governments. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) What measures has the Government taken or does it propose to take to mobilise Australian and world public opinion on behalf of disarmament. 
What printed and audio visual material relating to the danger represented by the armaments race has been or is to be prepared by and/or funded by the Government or Government instrumentalities. 
In relation to part (2) what sums have been allocated or are proposed to be allocated. 
What publicity has the Government given or does it intend to give to the final document of the 10th Special Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
How many applicants for appointment or transfer as trade apprentices with Australia Post have been successful during the years 1968 to1978 inclusive. 
When will Australia Post conduct the entrance examinations originally scheduled for21 October 1978, now cancelled subject to the apprentice intake needs of Australia Post. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Have housing commencements- for the December quarter slumped to the lowest level since the March quarter of 1966? Were the December figures 3 per cent lower than the preceding quarter and 9.4 per cent lower than the December quarter 1977? What will be done to redress this alarming trend? In particular, what assistance will be given to help young couples who are seeking their first home? 
-In this state of the nation debate it seems to me to be appropriate to talk about the economic policies of the Fraser Government. After all, we are beginning the second parliamentary year of the second Fraser Government. As we look over the three years and three months since that eventful and conspiratorial day on 1 1 November 1975, 1 think most Australians would concede that they share a sense of sadness, dissillusionment and bitter disappointment. A real feeling of disappointment pervades the Australian community at this time. We have had a period of broken promises. It has been a time of turning back the clock. It is a period to be known as the lost years or the barren years. It is a period that has been void of real direction. It is a period when the lucky country suddenly threw up the lost generation of unemployed- the unfulfilled youth- in this land of opportunity. 
The fact is that Australian politics in that three years and three months have lost all credibility. Firstly, let us look at the program of devolution, as it was called- the undoing of the great initiatives of the Labor Government. There were so many great initiatives that one could use up too much time referring to them all. Medibank has been mutilated. The Australian Assistance Plan has been savagely curtailed. Growth centres as a concept have been substantially abandoned. Something similar has happened to the National Estate program where expenditure has been sharply reduced. The national sewerage program has been totally abolished. The Australian Housing Corporation has been made innocuous. We have seen the means testing of legal aid. Land commissions have ceased to exist in most States in Australia. The child care program has gone. It can only be a time of sadness for those Australians who realise that after years of neglect and indifference it was appropriate for the Labor Government to set a non-materialistic course for a time in Australia and to bring real values to bear. 
Let us look back over these broken promises. A lot of people think that the motto of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is 'Life was not meant to be easy' I think we could say that his motto could well be 'Promises were not meant to be kept'. Again one could spend a lot of time going through this cavalcade of broken promises. I will not have time to do that by any means, but let me mention some of the classical quotes of the 1975 election campaign like 'we will maintain Medibank', 'the Government will support wage indexation' and 'we will work positively in cooperation with the trade unions'. We have had a succession of disasters and serious confrontation in respect of the Trade Practices Act and that inquitous section 45D, and the newly established Industrial Relations Bureau which was meant really to antagonise the trade union movement of this country. The example's go on and on. In regard to economic affairs the Prime Minister said: 'Economies can and will be made in government spending without disrupting essential programs for which contracts have already been let'. 
Essential programs have gone down the drain on a thousand fronts. Staff ceilings have been imposed in the Public Service. A feeling of fear has developed in the Public Service of this country. Certainly there is an attitude of inhibition. Then we had the promise about Aboriginal affairs and the promise that there would be no reduction in expenditure. Aboriginal affairs programs were dropped by $24m. Worst affected were the areas of health, housing and legal aid. There are broken promises on taxation and a host of other things. 
The Prime Minister gave emphasis to rural affairs and said that we would have a bank that would provide long-term loans up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. Yet the new bank has failed to do that. It is providing loans on regular banking terms. The Primary Industry Bank, as it is now called, will charge 10V4 per cent interest on loans up to $ 100,000 exactly the same as the Commonwealth Development Bank. As I look through this policy speech I note especially the promises about small businesses. Let me quote from the Prime Minister's 1977 election campaign policy speech when he said: 
Times have been difficult for Australia's thousands of small businessmen. We have helped small business with our tax concessions on trading stock, with the investment allowance and our personal tax cuts, and we will make more finance available to small business through the Commonwealth Development Bank and the AIDC. 
So there is the Prime Minister 's commitment. But what do we find in regard to the bankruptcy situation of small business, the measurement of the progress of small business in Australia? I quote from a report on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act 1966. The report states in part: 
The number of proceedings in the year covered by this report, namely 3,134, represents the highest number recorded in one year, and an increase of 42.71 per cent from the number recorded during the previous year, namely 2, 1 96. 
So the report goes on. 
The consumer price index is regarded in this country and in other parts of the world as a measurement of the degree of inflation prevailing in the country. We know that it was the most holy objective, the sacred cow, of this Government to get inflation down. So many things were made secondary and subservient to that objective. It did not matter whether people were unemployed; it did not matter whether Government services were cut: Inflation was to come down. The single mindedness of the Prime Minister and the corporate attitude of his Cabinet reflected that emphasis. Nothing else mattered. Yet we find that as at February 1979 in comparison with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries Australia was not such a nation of achievement so far as improving the inflationary scene was concerned. In fact the inflation rate for the December quarter, as represented by the consumer price index increase, was 2.3 per cent. That of course means that Australia has an inflation rate of between 7 per cent and 8 per cent. But of course we know that that is not the real rate of inflation because many costs of services and goods are not properly reflected in the measurement process. Nor are the costs of government charges properly reflected in those measurements. So the real inflation rate is higher than the tables tend to indicate. 
However obviously Australia 's inflation rate is high in comparison with that prevailing in the rest of the world. On the OECD scale, Australia is shown as having an inflation rate of 7.9 per cent compared with 3.8 per cent for Japan, a country which is buoyant and moving into technological fields and expanding its trade and its external and domestic economic affairs. In Austria the inflation rate is 3.6 per cent; Belgium, 4.5 per cent; Luxumberg, 3.1 per cent; the Netherlands, 4.1 per cent and Switzerland, 1.1 per cent. Yet here is Australia with an inflation rate of 7.9 per cent. But reducing the inflation rate was the principle objective of the Fraser Government. 
Our inflation rate symbolises the economic failures of the Government. I suppose that, if anything symbolises this situation and brings the failure of the Government's economic policies into sharp relief, it is the unemployment scene. The latest unemployment figures available show that there is an unprecedented high rate of people unemployed- 493,516, of whom 341,877 are on unemployment benefits. That is a rise of nearly 31,000 on the figures for the previous month. The Government had to make provision in its Budget for $965m for unemployment benefit payments. We recently discovered that expenditure on unemployment benefits in this country is running close to $100m a month. Yet this Government- this free enterprise Government, this private enterprise Governmentseems to lack the ability, the drive or the imagination to contrive some other way of using that $100m or more as it soon will be to get young Australians back into a work situation. We should be able to say that there will be an innovation, a new Australian employment authority for young people and a national apprenticeship and training authority. We should be able to say that we will take any young person who is capable of and is willing to work and ensure that he or she gets proper training through the employment opportunities that are available in the Public Service and in the private sector. After that of course we should be giving a guarantee as regards their housing needs so that the lending authorities can lend them money. We could then get this so-called lazy, indolent country back on the march again. We are supposed to be a government with a capacity in that regard. 
I see the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  at the table at present. I remind him that during Question Time this morning figures from the Australian Statistician were cited in respect of the downturn in housing commencements. It was revealed that, as at the December quarter, housing commencements were the lowest since the March quarter 1966. The figures show that the number or houses commenced was 3.7 per cent lower than the September quarter figure and 9.4 per cent lower than the December quarter of 1 977. We know that the construction force of this country is dissipating. In fact, between November 1976 and November 1977, 10,000 jobs were lost in the construction industry and another 7,800 jobs were lost between November 1977 and November 1978. So, one could say that there has been a reduction of 10,000 in the construction work force of this country every year since this Government has been in office. I fail to accept that as a reasonable proposition. 
Of course the scapegoats for the Government are the unemployed. There are many other scapegoats. We discussed one category of them yesterday- the pensioners- those people who have been deprived of an increase in their pension in line with rises in the consumer price index. We know that the Government's emphasis on getting down inflation has been a misplaced emphasis. Its emphasis has been on dissipating large amounts of money in respect of investment allowances and depreciation allowances, all designed to give an incentive to manufacturers to help stimulate industry. Yet the fundamentals of the whole situation are that nobody is going to go out and make more motor cars or more refrigerators or build more houses or anything else unless there is a solvent and buoyant clientele waiting at the end of the line to buy the commodity. So we find this assault on the pensioners, the low income earners in the community and the exservicemen of this country who have also been affected in many ways, but which time will not allow me to elaborate on. We saw the slashing of the community health program by $ 15.5m. We saw migrants assailed in so many ways. Then of course there was the attack on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because it dared to give some semblance of equity and justice in regard to the national wage case. In abbreviated form, the major points of justification for the decision made by the Commission were: 
the general desire for the continuation of an orderly system of centralized wage fixation . . . 
the fact that there has been no general wage increase since June 1978 and there will be no further increase after the present decision until after April 1979 . . . 
the fact that the cumulative National Wage increase for the year ended April 1979 will be 5.S per cent which is less than the movement in the CPI which was forecast for 1978-79 . . . 
the fact that this national wage increase will be the last one that can more than marginally affect the CPI during 1978-79 . . . 
It was really saying to the Government: 'We have no alternative but to give this meagre increase, inadequate as it is in all the circumstances. The decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is simply a sequel to this tirade of intimidatory abuse from this great gaggle of Ministers, headed by the Prime Minister himself and including the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  Such abuse is designed to make the ordinary people the scapegoats for this Government's misguided economic policies. As we look over this whole scene, whether it is in regard to the sell-out of Australia with this great intake of overseas investment that will have the effect of repatriating massive dividends overseas, whatever test we apply after these three years and three months of Fraserism, we can only say that this Government is a dismal failure and that the people have lost confidence in it. In looking at the state of the nation we can say that it is time that the Fraser Government packed its bags. It has broken every promise that it has ever made. I think that the Australian people are looking for the first opportunity to redress this miserable situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Will he give an unqualified assurance that radioactive waste from Maralinga will not be temporarily or permanently stored at the Atomic Energy Research Establishment, Lucas Heights, NSW. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
Has the British technical assessment team which visited Australia in connection with the nuclear material at Maralinga reported to the Government; if so, (a) what advice has been received in relation to the plutonium and /or other radioactive material buried at Maralinga, (b) what options for the long term safe disposal of the plutonium and/or other radioactive material are under consideration and (c) what is the projected cost of each of the options under consideration. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
In view of the Government's decision to proceed with the proposed Ranger uranium mining venture under the Atomic Energy Act which inter alia provides for the application of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947 to all works carried out by or on behalf of the Atomic Energy Commission, will the Government give an undertaking that the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act will not be applied to the proposed new Ranger mine. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What were the radiation levels (a) at the perimeter fence and (b) for the small length of the perimeter fence at the south-west corner of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission 's Research Establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW, on a monthly basis since January 1975. 
Have radiation levels exceeded internationally accepted limits in any area within the AAEC's Research Establishment at Lucas Heights to which workers or civilians may gain access. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government's attention been drawn to a system of solar tax credits which has been introduced in the United States of America, particularly in the State of California, in order to provide, inter alia, an incentive for consumers to convert to using solar energy for domestic and industrial purposes. 
If so, what action has the Government taken, or does it propose to take, to introduce similar incentives in Australia. 
If no action is contemplated, what are the reasons for this decision. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What sums were granted under the National Estate program for programs or projects in the electoral divisions of (a) Hughes and; (b) Cook during; (i) 1977-78 and; (ii) 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Will he provide in detail the scientific evidence upon which the Government is relying to support the Government's claim that the technology exists for the safe management and safe permanent disposal of highly radioactive waste. 
What studies has the Government undertaken or does it intend to undertake to determine which methods for the handling of high level waste (a) are safe and permanent and (b) can be used on a commercial basis. 
Will the Government provide the Parliament with the studies and reports referred to in part (2). 
Do any of the methods for the handling of high level waste upon which the Government is relying involve reprocessing. 
If so, how does the Government reconcile this reliance with the expressed assertion that Australia is making its uranium available to the world nuclear fuel cycle in order to prevent reprocessing. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What measures has the Government taken, or does it intend to take, to ensure that all doctors' accounts sent to patients include (a) the actual service which the service item number represents and (b) the scheduled fee recommended for the service. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) How many applications were received by the Foreign Investment Review Board during (a) 1972-73, (b) 1973-74, (c) 1974-75, (d) 1975-76, (e) 1976-77, (0 1977-78 and (g) the period 1 July 1978 to date. 
Of the applications referred to in part ( 1 ), how many were (a) rejected, (b) approved and (c) withdrawn. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to make a short statement. I wish to express appreciation for the efforts that you have made to accommodate those honourable members who are anxious to speak in this debate. As you know, the Parliament was given an assurance yesterday by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that honourable members would be afforded the opportunity to speak. Despite your good offices, the fact is that we will not be able to accommodate all of those honourable members who seek to speak from this side of the House. I express concern about that. I believe that the Government could have been far more accommodating and co-operative. I believe that some legislation- 
-I am not trying to exploit the situation at all. I gained the clear impression that it was the Government's intention to ensure that everybody who sought to speak would be able to speak. I do not believe that the Government has made the same kind of effort that you have made,  Mr Speaker,  to make that possible. 
-I shall finish with one sentence. I would like it to be recorded that under the arrangements a number of honourable members from this side of the House have given guarantees to their electorates that they would seek to make their position clear on the Lusher motion and matters relating to it but, because of these procedures, they will not be able to honour their undertakings. 
lt is with some trepidation that I, and I suppose other honourable members, participate in this debate because it involves a matter which is sensitive and which is important to a large number of Australians. I suppose that all honourable members have been a little surprised at the extent to which emotions and the degree to which intimidation have characterised the efforts of the public to make their points of view acceptable to members of parliament. I express concern about the philosophical stand upon which the mover of the motion, the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  has based his case. It was brought to my attention that he said 'that if a person can afford to send his kids to Kings School, he can; if he cannot, he cannot. Certain people will always have advantages over others, and I do not think we will ever get away from that'. This is a component of the total philosophy on which the Lusher motion is based. It represents acceptance of maintaining an advantage for the advantaged and continual denial for the oppressed. 
This motion is not about morals; it is simply about money. It seems to me that some honourable members who have participated in this debate hold the view that the affluent can terminate a pregnancy but the poor can be left holding the baby. Many people do not like spending money on the weak, the poor and the oppressed. I liken this to the Fraser Government blaming the unemployed because there are insufficient jobs available and the jobless cannot obtain jobs. 
Honourable members have been inundated by letters and telegrams stating points of view on abortion. I suppose I have received several thousand of those. There are mass protests- petitions and the like. I received a letter from the Federation of Catholic Parents and Friends Associations from the Archdiocese of Sydney. Of course, it strongly supports the Lusher motion. What I am about to read does not deny that fact. It is interesting to note that the Federation of Catholic Parents and Friends Associations is also concerned at the denial of support for the weak and oppressed, to which I have referred. The representations which came from that body are in these terms: 
This Federation represents parents who are not only rearing their own families, but have over the past few years been expected to pay ever increasing tax to cover the cost of antifamily Government policies. Concessional deductions for dependent children were abolished, educational deductions are minimal, and family allowances are annually eroded in value because of the Government's failure to index same. 
Although that view is not my own, it expresses the concern I have that the weak are the subject of indifference on the part of the mover of the motion and those who support him. If the motion is successful it would grossly discriminate against the disadvantaged. Tampering with the medical benefits schedule, as the honourable member for 
Hume proposes, would only serve to make safe abortions, which are lawful medical procedures, unavailable to women who would most need them- women on low incomes, women who have been the victims of rape, women with large families and other women to whom an unwanted pregnancy threatens physical and mental health. The motion represents a grave invasion of privacy for those patients for whom pregnancy termination is necessary. I hope I have time to mention the Australian Medical Association's attitude to that matter. 
The motion undermines the concept of universal health insurance. It constitutes an unwarranted interference in the doctor-patient relationship. It singles out one medical procedure for unnecessary bureaucratic control. When we look at that aspect alone we see that, if the Lusher motion is carried, the future prospects are indeed frightening. It would not prevent abortions from being carried out but it would result in an increase in illegal and dangerous operations as people in receipt of low incomes would be forced to resort to unscrupulous or unqualified practitioners. In mentioning those basic objections to the Lusher motion, as it is called, I express the views of some 130 women's organisations around Australia, representing probably many hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of women in this country. They are points of view which really have grass roots support in this country. I briefly mention the view of the Australian Medical Association. I do not always uphold its view, but I think that the points it made in its submission on this matter to honourable members are valid. Its submission states: 
The move in the House of Representatives by a private member to restrict the payment of medical benefits on items related to termination of pregnancy, could set a precedent opening the way for the Government to apply similar restrictions to other items in the Medical Benefits Schedule. 
Today we heard the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  mention several possibilities, including the concern of Jehovah's Witnesses about blood transfusions. This discriminatory approach could be adopted towards many other matters of very great importance to the people of this country. The AMA raised the matter of breach of confidentiality. It exposed the possibility of important confidential information being mauled by bureaucrats, with the information being passed through the hands of clerks in the various government departments. The AMA stated in its submission: 
In effect, the proposal would require doctors to provide health funds and the Government with a diagnosis of their patient's condition before benefits for items which might involve termination of pregnancy would be paid. Having provided the diagnosis, the benefits would be paid only if certain narrow criteria were met. 
The AMA submission is long and I can only summarise it. Further on it stated: 
In order to ensure that benefits were not paid for a procedure which resulted in the termination of a pregnancy it would be necessary to require certification in respect of the following items in the Medical Benefits Schedule: 
Eleven items were then listed. It went on to state: 
Thus every year thousands of women who have no intention of seeking to end a pregnancy would be faced with the embarrassment of having to produce a certificate to that effect before being able to obtain benefits. 
Honourable members should imagine this happening to their wives or their daughters. It would be an intolerable situation which probably would be without precedent in the so-called Western World. The submission continued: 
The certificate would state the actual purpose of the procedure, for example, investigation for suspected cancer of the uterus, which could well result in unnecessary distress. 
Those are the views of the conservative Australian Medical Association, warning honourable members that, if we give effect to the motion before us, we will be breaking new ground which will have horrifying prospects, including the prospect of causing great embarrassment to the women of today and the women who will follow in the future. The AMA concluded: 
The Committee took the view that termination of pregnancy, when legally performed, is a medical procedure and as such is open to the payment of benefit. 
As I have a feeling that the motion has a money motivation rather than a moral motivation, I mention that in 1977-78 the expenditure incurred under the provisions of the National Health Act totalled $986.5m. If we add such items as dental and optical care to the medical bill the total goes up to $999m. The amount associated with medical benefits schedule item 6469, which covers the most commonly performed curette, is very small, namely, $3.4m, which happens to present the infinitesimal percentage of 0.34 per cent of the total expenditure. If we seek to consider this matter on the basis of money, that is the amount of money involved. That amount is of little consequence and cannot possibly justify our holding this debate. 
I, probably like every other honourable member, have no enthusiasm for terminating pregnancy, yet it is apparent that many women consider that they have the right to elect to do so. No honourable member can ignore the fact that that belief is acted on extensively and that the introduction of prohibiting laws so far has failed as an effective deterrent. Despite the threat of penalty, as well as the availability of adequate facilities and, often, the lack of medical competence, women have exercised what they regard as their personal prerogative in this matter, often at great expense and unnecessary exposure to injury and even risk of life. Regardless of the outcome of any legislation, these women will continue to adopt that course of action. They regard this matter as one for their own consciences. I, for one, do not presume effectively to exercise a conscience on their behalf. Whilst having respect for the principle of the right to life, I find it extremely difficult to disregard the right of a woman to resolve the issue for herself in the early stage of a pregnancy. I certainly am not advocating blatant termination of pregnancy after 2 1 weeks. I think that we have to differentiate sensibly in respect of that matter. 
I draw the attention of the Parliament to the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships, the section dealing with sexuality and fertility, in which a particular category of abortion is defined as follows:  . . termination of pregnancy before the foetus has attained viability, i.e., become capable of independent extrauterine life. 
Most of us have some compassion in that respect. I believe that most of us are prepared to facilitate the application of that definition. In other words, we are talking about the life issue. No honourable member is in the business of taking life cheaply. In debating this physical, emotionaland whatever other sensitive description we can give it- issue, no honourable member is talking about taking away a life. But I believe that, in terms of that definition which relates to early pregnancy, we have a very distinctive case to contemplate. I see that my time has run out. In view of all the circumstances, I did not mean to talk for as long as I have. But I am impressed and influenced by the determination of a distinguished scholar, Daniel Callahan, whose studies have been commended by R. J. Gerber, a moral philosopher of the Roman Catholic University of Notre Dame. Incidentally, Gerber insists that:  the abortion question is not primarily a religious issue but a secular moral matter best resolved by secular moral arguments. 
After years of devoted study of abortion law versus choice morality, Callahan found it necessary, reluctantly, to choose permissive abortion as the only type of abortion law which recognises women's rights over their own bodies, but not absolute rights because due regard must be given to the foetus and to society, and which upholds the dignity of the law by not allowing it to fall into disrepute, as laws prohibiting abortion do. In my view, therein lies the balanced, sensible, moral and practical approach to this extremely extenuating controversy concerning this vital human issue. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) In respect of each year since the inception of the Commonwealth Record and the Ministerial Document Service, what was the (a) cost of publication, (b) revenue raised by subscription, (c) number of editions produced and (d) level of production of each edition. 
For the same publications, what is the (a) current number of paid subscriptions, (b) names or categories of persons who currently are recipients of free copies and (c) classification, function and salary of each person currently involved with production and circulation. 
-For some time the Government has enjoyed the advantage of having two publications available for its use in disseminating statements issued by Ministers. Those two publications are called the  Commonwealth Record  and the  Ministerial Document Service.  As honourable members will know, the availability of these documents to the Opposition is restricted. Only the leaders of the Opposition are entitled to have their releases published and disseminated through these publications. I want to put a case seriously in consideration of the needs of the Opposition now or at any time in the future. I believe that in respect of a number of matters of this type there is a new dimension of democratisation. This is accepted as a fair process by the Australian community at large. It seems to me that it would be regarded as a very serious deficiency in the democratic process for the statements of shadow Ministers not to be treated significantly. It is important that the libraries of this country should have such recorded statements and should have access to them. It is important that the media or the public through the media should have knowledge of the statements of shadow Ministers. 
Recently I asked the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  for information as to the cost of producing the  Commonwealth Record  and the  Ministerial Document Service.  A lot of information was provided in answer to Question No. 3290 which I asked on 28 February. In respect of the  Commonwealth Record,  the effect of the answer was as follows: The cost of the publication is $265,000 in round figures. Revenue from subscriptions is $247,850. There is a considerable shortfall. In 1978 50 editions were produced. The level of production was 3,000 to 3,400 copies. The Minister then referred to the salaries of people associated with the production of the  Commonwealth Record.  The clerk who seems to be in charge of the document earns $ 17,000-odd a year. The Minister mentioned several other staff members. He said: 
The number of persons involved from time to time in production and distribution of the  Commonwealth Record  is considerable. I am not prepared to authorise the work which would be involved in preparing the list sought. 
I simply make the point that many people are involved in the production of the  Commonwealth Record.  Similar information was given in regard to the  Ministerial Document Service.  Honourable members seeking information.will find it in  Hansard. 
The Opposition now produces a collated publication which is called 'Labor Statements '. It is a collation of the statements made by Labor spokesmen. It is put out each week. I should like to make its distribution much wider than it is. It certainly goes out at present to members of the Parliamentary Labor Party. It goes to State branches of the Labor Party and to some other essential avenues such as libraries. I should like to think that honourable members opposite could have the benefit of this information. Indeed, when the political pendulum goes around and we are on the other side of the House we will derive a similar benefit. 
This is obviously a very useful process and I sincerely hope that the Minister for Administrative Services will give consideration to accepting responsibility for the publication and financing of this 'Labor Statements' series. This is a very fair proposition and I intend to write formally to the Minister about it. I believe that the Government has a very great advantage at present and that that advantage ought to be redressed by the Government accepting total responsibility for the publication and dissemination of this new publication 'Labor Statements' which, as I have said, is a collation of all the statements issued by the Labor Party's shadow Ministers. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
Are British ex-servicemen receiving Australian service pensions entitled to the pensioner health benefits; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What studies has the Government undertaken to determine the feasibility of introducing solar energy water systems as standard requirement for all new homes approved or built by the Defence Service Homes Corporation. 
What are the estimated costs of introducing the alternative solar energy domestic systems to an average 10 square house. 
What are the estimated differences in running costs between solar energy and non-solar energy alternatives. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What studies has the Government undertaken to determine the feasibility of introducing solar energy water systems as standard requirement for all new homes approved or built by his Department. 
What are the estimated costs of introducing the alternative solar energy domestic systems to an average 10 square house. 
3 ) What are the estimated differences in running costs between solar energy and non-solar energy alternatives. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
Has his Department issued directives or guidelines in each year since 1 970 that Australian citizens of certain ethnic backgrounds are not to be issued Australian passports or other travel documents without a security clearance. 
If so, (a) what ethnic backgrounds are the subject of such directives or guidelines, (b) how many Australian citizens have not been issued with an Australian passport because of their failure to obtain a security clearance, and (c) what procedures exist for an Australian citizen to appeal against or seek a review of such a decision. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships contained in its Final Report, Volume 4-Part V. The family and Volume 5-Part VI. Equality and discrimination, does the Government intend to (a) accept or (b) reject. 
What measures are proposed to be taken and what funds are to be allocated for those recommendations accepted, or to be accepted. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships contained in its Final Report, Volume 2- Part II. Education for human relationships, does the Government intend to ( a ) accept or ( b ) reject. 
What measures are proposed to be taken and what funds are to be allocated for those recommendations to be accepted. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
Which of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships contained in its Final Report, Volume 5 Part VII- Rape and other sexual offences, has the Government accepted, or does it intend to accept? 
When will legislation be introduced to effect these changes? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
What action has the Government taken to implement recommendations 10, 17, 23, 25, 26, 28 and 29 of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships contained in its Final Report Volume 2-Part III. Health and medical education. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Australian officials overseas destroy or cause destruction of a number of applications for (a) immigration to Australia or (b) temporary or permanent residency in Australia, before the applications are considered or processed. 
If so, (a) in which countries are the officials stationed, (b) how many applications referred to in part (1) are destroyed, (c) what is the reason for the action and (d) what action will the Government take to prevent the destruction of these applications. 
Some 23 or 24 years ago, as a young councillor of the Sutherland Shire and as the Federal Member for Hughes, I was involved with the proposal to establish an atomic research establishment at Lucas Heights which is in my electorate. I am pleased to see the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  in the House tonight because I want to draw the attention of the House to the fact that recently I wrote to the Minister on behalf of the Hughes Federal Council of the Australian Labor Party proposing that consideration be given to referring to a parliamentary committee of inquiry the suggestion that reconsideration should be given to the suitability of Lucas Heights as a site for the atomic research establishment. I remember very well when I was a member of the Sutherland Council some 20 years ago, General Stevens the then  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission put the proposal that the great virtue of putting the Atomic Energy Commission's establishment in that part of the Sydney area was that it was a very remote area and it was isolated and well away from residential development. 
As the city has grown in the last 20-odd years to the very front doorstep of the research establishment the advantage for which the site was selected no longer applies. The research establishment is now almost surrounded by Sydney's southern dormitory suburbs and is not in a remote and isolated area. The fact is that in recent times increasing concern has been demonstrated by local residents as to the possible hazards that might result from the activities carried on at that establishment. Nothing has been proved in respect of the dangers that exist there, but of course there are contentions- well founded- that effluent is discharged from the establishment into the Woronora River. There is no question that that is the case. The Minister has answered questions which I put on the parliamentary Notice Paper as to the degree of radioactivity which is associated with the discharge of that effluent. There is similarly no doubt that there is discharge of gaseous waste into the atmosphere which again has some element of radioactivity associated with it. In addition to these two important considerations is the fact that there is quite a degree of radioactive material stored on the site and in the vicinity of the site, some of it being associated with the uranium core and some of it being associated with the disposal of waste. 
As I have said, there is considerable concern in the community. Some people do not accept the contention that the level of" radioactivity is safe. Of course the recent developments in Pennsylvania have heightened this concern. I ask the Minister to consider the suitability of this site, having regard to what I have mentioned already in connection with the encroachment of urban development on this establishment and because of the fact that the Government has decided to commission a study for a new isotope and research reactor to replace the HIFAR reactor at present in use at Lucas Heights. I am told, almost concurrently with the information which has been given to me and which I have just mentioned, that there are no plans to decommission the existing reactor. So it is possible that in the foreseeable future there could be two reactors operating at Lucas Heights, thus seriously increasing any danger which may exist in regard to the discharge of radioactivity. There is also concern about the possible threat of disaster and about the possible effects of any kind of terrorist activity. Obviously this matter has to be looked at very seriously. I say to the Minister that the intensity of public concern is increasing at quite an alarming rate. I believe that there is a very real need to consider the pros and cons of having this new reactor, if it is to be established in the mid-1980s, in the Sydney urban area or indeed in any other urban area or whether we should cut the painter now and put this activity in some area where safety would be the order of the day if some unforeseen eventuality occurred. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. Has the Government commissioned a design cost study for a new reactor to replace the HIFAR reactor at Lucas Heights? If so, might it not be prudent to locate any new atomic reactor outside the Sydney or any other urban area? Will he consider my request for a parliamentary inquiry into matters relating to the suitability of the Lucas Heights site, having regard to increasing public concern about the discharge of radioactive material- I am referring to both liquid and gaseous wastes- and the possibility of a disaster or an act of terrorism occurring? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the first report on the survey of health of employees in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment undertaken by Professor Ferguson is not a good index on the occurrence of cancer because it is a prevalence study and by its nature the disease on recognition usually leads to action such as the temporary or permanent removal of the subject from the workforce. 
If so, what studies or research programs on workrelated health hazards and the incidence of cancer does the Government intend to instigate to overcome this stated limitation of current studies. 
-I rise simply to place on record the fact that in 1974 1 had the honour to lead a parliamentary delegation to Pakistan which was received by  Mr Bhutto.  I think it is appropriate for me to say on behalf of the members of that delegation that we were enormously impressed with the dignified bearing of this man, his demeanour, the hospitality that he extended to the parliamentary delegation and the very great interest and concern he expressed about our country. I am sure those of us who spent in excess of an hour with him on that occasion must treat the event of yesterday with the utmost significance and importance. We mourn his passing and sincerely hope that Pakistan will not suffer as a consequence. 
I support the motion moved by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  because I believe that this is a very historical occasion in that the motion involves a declaration by this House concerning the next stage towards accomplishing the erection of a replacement for this building. The design competition is to get an imprimatur from the Parliament tonight. The second part of the motion is to the effect that a message is to be sent to the Senate. I suppose that that means that in fact there is to be acquiescence of the Senate. I am doubtful about that point. I know the Minister has a ready answer. It is my understanding that there is a need for acquiescence in all such matters. The motion does not make the issue quite clear. I suppose that declaration by the House of Representatives represents one part of the journey towards commencement of the selection of a design for the building and that, subsequent to that, is the need for the Senate to adopt the same attitude as the House of Representatives towards the issue. I will be interested to hear from the Minister whether that is the case. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who preceded me in this debate, made some points about the importance of this issue. I know that over many years the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has been critical of the pussyfooting attitude of governments concerning this issue and, indeed, of people who contended that the Parliament would be wrong to proceed to edify itself and the institution of Parliament generally by proceeding with this very large-scale expenditure which will follow the design competition which is the subject of the motion before us. 
Every generation has the opportunity to do great things. I cannot help but feel that the inclination to do great things in Australia is less apparent and less in evidence today than it was maybe 100 years ago in times preceding our generation. The Sydney Opera House might be a very bad comparison in this context because we are not talking about the kind of process that could involve us in an accelerating budgetary situation. I know that there will be a different approach to the new and permanent Parliament House. It is marvellous to think that in bygone days our country accomplished enormous undertakings such as the Sydney Harbour Bridge and the trans-continental railway. But little of great significance has been undertaken since the Snowy Mountains scheme. Here we have the opportunity of building a great new parliamentary building with all its conceptual considerations which will call for the application of the best architectural brains of this country and possibly- I am doubtful on this point as wen-the best architectural brains of other countries. 
Parliament has taken on a new role. We cannot emulate any parliament in the world when we try to set up a parliamentary institution. We are taking this decision tonight at a time when there is a great tendency to demean parliament, where there is often mockery through the media and a disparagement of democratic processes. People who run other processes- media processes especially- are inclined to glorify their own role and to diminish the role of the Parliament. It just seems to me that it is in the interests of the great mass of ordinary Australians to ensure that enshrined in this new budding is the principle that Parliament is supreme in our nation- not the people who manipulate the purse strings. There should be a realisation that this country has great fundamental natural resources and human resources and that the elected representatives of the people, rather the people who get into the act of manipulating those resources, ought to be paramount. So this is a vital matter for the future. The new parliament house which will be opened to celebrate our 200th anniversary ought to be a great edifice of which all future Australians can be proud. I have been a member of this place for quite a time now and I do not think this occasion ought to be allowed to go unrecognised or to be treated insignificantly. I commend the Minister for the motion that he has put before the Parliament. I hope that the architectural profession will be sensitised and that there will be great pulsating inspirational factors which will cause a great manisfestation of all the ideals that we as practitioners have- not just about a building for ourselves as parliamentarians; heaven knows, some of us here today will not be here in 1988- so that the people can come into the new parliament house and regard it as their own. Even dissenters should be able to do this. 
I have regard for the excellence of the Committee 's report. Members of the Committee who visited parliaments around the world have had regard for new trends and suggested that we might make facilities available for dissenters and demonstrators so that these people can come to the Parliament and the voice of the people in this place can ring out and be paramount so that Australia might benefit as a consequence. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
I ) What action has the Government taken, or does it intend to take, to implement the recommendations contained in the following Parts of the Toose Independent Inquiry into the Repatriation System received in June 1975: (a) Pan 3, the Repatriation System and the Community, (b) Pan 4, Administration of the Repatriation System, (c) Pan 5, Qualifying Service, (d) part 6, Dependants' War Pensions, (e) Pan 7, Basis for grant of War Pension, (f) Part 8, Statutory Bodies for Determination of claims, (g) Part 9, Method of Determination of Claims and Appeals, (h) Part 10, 
Assessment of Incapacity and War Pensions, (i) Part 1 1, Allowances related to war pensions and transport benefits, (j ) Part 12, Service Pension, (k) Part 13, Protective Administration of Pensions and Allowances, (I) Part 14, Basis for Entitlement to Treatment, (m) Part 15, Repatriation Treatment Services, (n) Part 16, Rehabilitation, Re-establishment and Re-employment, (o) Part 17, Allowances related to Medical Treatment and Rehabilitation, (p) Part 18, Education of Children of Certain Members, (q) Part 19, General Benefits, (r) Part 20, Administrative Discretions; and (s) Part 2 1, Public Understanding. 
What is the estimated cost of implementing the recommendations in each Part accepted by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) What percentage of maintenance and construction work carried out at the Holsworthy, Moorebank and Ingleburn military areas has been carried out by private contractors during the periods (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77, (c) 1977-78 and (d) I July 1 978 to date. 
What was the cost of the work during each of these periods. 
) How many departmental employees were engaged in maintenance and construction work related to the 3 military establishments. 
-The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  who preceded me in this debate, spent some time talking on the issue of natural disasters. This is a matter of great significance to rural people and others around Australia. From what I heard of the honourable member's speech one could fairly construe that he is a member of a government that is a national disaster; that is especially the case in respect of rural people and especially the case in respect of the matter that he has raised. While he was speaking I looked through some papers and found that the allocations for natural disasters were as follows: In 1974-75 $113m; in 1975-76 $58m; in 1976-77 $27m; and in 1977-78 $53m. This is a great drop from the provisions made under the Labor Budget in 1974-75. In 1978-79 $ 12.6m was allocated to meet the outstanding commitments in respect of past natural disasters- drought and things of that kind that had already occurred. No allowance was. made in the 1978-79 Budget estimates- none at all for payments in respect of natural disasters which may occur in 1 978-79. 
The funding of assistance in respect of natural disasters also changed. The honourable member for Darling Downs made brief reference to this matter. In the past a base figure was paid by the States but this was set back in 1 97 1 and the Commonwealth met all expenditure over this amount regardless of what it reached. From 1978-79 the States' base contributions have been doubled and expenditure in excess of those base amounts will in future be funded on a $3 Commonwealth to $ 1 State basis. The situation that has emerged from this thimble and pea trick which has been perpetrated is that the States under the federalism scheme are virtually devoid of any surplus money and cannot really amass the base amounts upon which they can expect to attract a subsidy. This is another retrograde step. The people in remote parts of Australia are the ones that are going to suffer most and I do not wonder at the normally complacent member from Darling Downs being almost violent in his contention that there should be an overhaul of this procedure. 
This afternoon we heard one rebellious Government member after another expressing indignation at the deteriorating situation in Australia generally. Tonight a member who is usually a sycophant, who has never raised his voice in criticism before, is raising it in such a trenchant way. There is the question of natural disasters but there is also the matter of the broken promise about the natural disasters insurance scheme. Does the honourable member for Darling Downs remember the promise made in March 1976 by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in an unambiguous and unequivocal way that a natural disasters insurance scheme would be introduced for those people whose property and the like was not insurable under the ordinary insurance schemes. Once again, this is a matter of great importance to the country people and certainly to the people in my electorate. 
Many unfortunate people have become the victims of yet another broken promise on the part of this Government. As an example I refer to people in the Illawarra part of New South Wales and the southern part of my electorate, around Corrimal and Bulli and around north and south Wollongong. Almost 40 houses have been seriously affected- some of them have been completely written off- because of land subsidence and land slippage. Yet their properties were approved by the local authorities at the development stage. This Government undertook to introduce a natural disasters insurance scheme. It even went so far as to set up working parties and interdepartmental committees. A stack of paper work on this matter simply flowed when the general election was being held. But as soon as the election was over, we discovered that nothing further would be done about the matter. So that, in itself, is another great disaster. 
We are debating the Appropriation Bills, which are of very great moment. Appropriation Bill (No. 3) allocates an amount of $223m-odd while Appropriation Bill (No. 4) allocates some $66m-odd. It is really remarkable to see the depths to which this Government will stoop to engage in this most ruthless pin-pricking of deprived people in this country. Let me illustrate the priorities of the Government in respect of some half a dozen of the significant appropriation items affected. First of all, an extra $300,000- an increase of 37 per cent- has been allocated to the Department of Administrative Services in respect of visits abroad by Ministers, their personal staffs and others. My party does not generally make a big complaint about this sort of thing because we recognise that in a modern world where trade and commerce is the order of the day, it is important for people to go overseas. But this Government, this Prime Minister and this Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  steadfastly contend that there have to be and there ought to be across-the-board cuts and curtailments. But when it comes to their own movements around the world and their inclination to travel, there are no cuts in allocation; in fact there are substantial increases. Even today several Ministers sought pairs through the Government Whip's office to enable them to go away on matters which did not come under their ministerial obligations. One Minister was going to look at sport and recreation and things of that kind around the world. No specific meeting was mentioned. If anything looked like a junket, a holiday, then that did. Of course on that basis, the request for a pair could not be granted. I mention that matter because I believe this whole thing is out of perspective. 
Furthermore, the allocation for the Austraiian Security Intelligence Organisation has been increased by $898,000 or 7.1 per cent. One wonders whether such an increase is necessary at a time of curtailment and cuts. This Parliament has always been very distinctive. In terms of the parliaments of the world, it has been a free Parliament. There has been an ebb and flow of the citizenry around here in a most uninhibited way. But too many of our Ministers are going overseas and are starting to emulate the standards- or rather lack of standards- that are evident in other parts of the world. So we are going to have more police boxes, more security provisions all around the place and more ASIO agents, although heavens knows what they will be for. Maybe we need some tightening up of procedures to enable us to seek out the drug offenders. But obviously the unstated purposes for which these amounts have been increased are not of a desirable nature. The appropriation for the Department of Defence has been increased by $ 10.2m. I think that some of the expenditure under this heading is for aircraft to be used to transport the Prime Minister. There has been an increase in the allocation for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet amounting to $422,000, or 26.4 per cent, for the conveyance of the Governor-General, Ministers and others, by VIP aircraft. Such extravagances, at a time when all these restrictions are taking place, just invite criticism. 
The people in my electorate were alarmed, as were the people of Sydney generally, when the Monday afternoon papers hit the streets and we saw the forcast that widows ' pensions were to be eliminated. The  Sun  newspaper of 30 April contained an article headed: '70,000 Pensions Face Axe '. It stated in part: 
The Federal Government is considering scrapping nearly 70,000 widows' pensions to help finance a proposed loneparent pension. 
The proposal, contained in a special 'task force' report, will be given to State Ministers of Social Security tomorrow. 
The article went on to contend that there would be a new scheme which involved the abolition of pensions for Class B and Class C widows. Nobody knows whether that is true. To my knowledge, no statement of clarification has been made. But one thing is certain, and that is such an action would be very much in keeping with things that have happened already under this Government. I ask honourable members to recall some of the complaints made during the debate on the last Budget. For instance, that Budget provided that pensions would be adjusted only once a year on a cost of living basis, thereby depriving pensioners of some $60m as a result of that change of policy. There was a provision in the Budget to subject those over 70 years of age to a means test. Maternity leave provisions were also abolished in the Budget. Family allowances which had previously been paid for students receiving the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance were abolished. The unemployment benefit rate being paid to young unemployed people in this country, the single unemployed, was frozen. That is not a contention; that is not a hypothetical situation. That is a fact of life. It has happened, as have the other things I have mentioned. The Budget provided that there was to be no increase in sickness benefit paid to people under 1 8 years of age, except in exceptional circumstances. Social security payments for children living overseas are no longer paid. Such a provision affects the well-being of migrant families in particular. The family allowance was to be taxed but of course, because of great pressure, the Fraser Government was forced to reverse its policy on that particular matter. 
Let me mention some of the curtailments which are taking place. Next we have the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It is a matter of very great distress to the Aboriginal community and especially to those who are involved in Aboriginal organisations, that the amount allocated for the National Aboriginal Conference has been reduced by $323,000 or 64 per cent. As a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I know what this Conference means to the Aboriginal people. The Labor Government initiated this process at the request of the Aboriginal people. They wanted to have a democratic participation in deciding their own affairs. They wanted their effectiveness in this regard to increase steadfastly as their capacity to handle their own affairs increased. By now, they have had a great deal of practice in handling their own affairs. They have been supported and had their hopes built up to a considerable degree, only to find that the funds have been cut. I have little doubt that this will reduce the number of their meetings, the frequency of their travel around Australia and the extent to which expert advice will be available to them. 
I also see that the allocation for legal aid has been reduced. A saving of $3. 5m has been made. That is a reduction of 50 per cent. A great deal can be said about legal aid. I have taken the trouble to make some notes on it. I probably will not be able to say very much on the subject in view of the time available to me. In 1975 the caretaker Prime Minister as he was at the time,  Mr Fraser,  promised that legal aid would be retained. This promise, of course, was in response to Gallup polls which showed that over 80 per cent of Australians supported the concept of legal aid and thought that the Legal Aid Office was doing a good job. There have been all sorts of up and down movements in the allocations for legal aid. The main effect of these has been deleterious in that people are now subjected to a most stringent means test. They almost have to be paupers to qualify under the present system. It is the exclusions rather than the inclusions that concern me about this matter. The Commonwealth has stated that it will reduce the legal aid allocation to the extent that I have already outlined. 
There is a cut in the allocation to employment and youth affairs of 9.5 per cent. If ever there was an area that has been totally shemozzled by this Government it is the area of youth training and the attempts to reduce youth unemployment. Some 5.5 per cent of all youth between 16 and 19 years of age are receiving some form of government subsidised youth employment or job training. But the sad thing is that information oh the success or failure of these schemes is not readily available to the public. The Special Youth Employment Training Program is a case in point. A review of this $80m scheme was prepared by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs and handed to the Government in February this year. It indicates that the scheme does not provide adequate training, give useful work experience or enhance the ability of the participants to compete in the labour market. If this report is correct the scheme is either a fraud or a gesture to pacify those millions of Australians who are out of work. 
In the limited time available to me I draw attention in a statistical way to some of the very serious and adverse trends that are occurring in Australia at present. I refer in particular to the unemployment situation. Every Labor  speaker  should say something about it. The Fraser Government, since taking office, has increased unemployment by 50,000 people a year. The latest figures show that 6.4 per cent of the full time labour force is seeking full time work. 
I refer to inflation, again in cryptic statistical terms. This Government has put its reputation on the line in relation to inflation. In the last 12 months the rate of inflation has been running at 8.2 per cent. It has continued at high levels and has now begun to rise. Sacrifices have had to be made by so many people, such as public servants, who have been denied wage increases and the staff complements they require, and pensioners who have been denied their indexation adjustments. These people and those in many other sections of the community must feel that the situation is serious when, after the Government has said that the sacrifices they were called on to make were justified because inflation would be brought down, we have now established that that is not the case. 
We know that there has been a masquerade in recent times. We were told through the media as a result of the public relations work of the Government that there would be a 2.5 per cent increase in the consumer price index for the March quarter. It turned out to be only 1.7 per cent. Most of us knew that it would be only 1 .7 per cent. The Government was dressing up the figure because it knew that there would be a great crisis in interest rates. It wanted to let people down as lightly as it could. In any case, even the figure of 1.7 per cent for the March quarter was not terribly impressive, as the figure for the same quarter in the previous year was as low as 1.3 percent. 
The Government's policies are bringing disaster to Australia. Bankruptcies are at their highest level. Interest rates have surged to 9.25 per cent. Soon there will be consequential increases in interest rates for home buyers around Australia. The Government is sustaining itself by selling off the farm. The only way in which it can prevail is by bringing in overseas investment and multinational capital at an unrelenting rate. The longterm sequel to this policy is that dividends will be repatriated overseas in massive amounts and the Australian people will bear the brunt of this Government's unfortunate policies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Did the Government in the last 3 years sell for private home building land previously assigned for Defence Service Homes purposes or is it the Government's intention to sell the land. 
If so, in what (a) suburbs, (b) cities and (c) electoral divisions was the land sold or to be sold situated. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
How many of the additional 230 apprentices taken into the Commonwealth Public Service will be attached to Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities in the Electoral Divisions of (a) Hughes and (b) Cook. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) Are any members of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission responsible for or involved in determining that potentially radioactive wastes discharged into the Woronora River comply with the requirements of the Radioactive Substances Act 1957. 
If so, (a) how many staff members are involved, (b) what tests are carried out and (c) what levels of radioactive waste are permitted to be discharged into the river under the Act or any applicable Commonwealth Acts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government considered the report prepared by the Australian Littoral Society for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service entitled 'An investigation of management options for Towra Point, Botany Bay.' 
If so, which of the enumerated options in the report has the Government accepted. 
What sums were allocated or are proposed to be allocated to ensure that this outstanding significant tidal wetland area in the Sydney region is preserved. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) How many tourists from Great Britain failed to leave Australia after the expiration of (a) their tourist visas and (b) their authorised period of temporary stay during (i) 1975, (ii) 1976, (iii) 1977 and (iv) 1978. 
) How many Great Britain nationals were deported during each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
How many persons from (a) Italy, (b) Greece, (c) Malta, (d) Turkey, (e) Great Britain, (f) Ireland, (g) Cyprus, (h) the Philippines, (j) Malaysia, (k) Chile, (1) India, (m) Bangladesh, (n) Argentine, (o) Israel, (p) United States of America, (q) Holland and (r) Iceland were refused tourist visas for entry to Australia in 1 978. 
What percentage of the applications received for tourist visa entry from these countries were refused. 
What was the (a) number and (b) nationality of persons who failed to leave Australia after the expiration of (i) their tourist visas and (ii) their authorised period of temporary stay during 1978. 
In respect of the persons referred to in part (3) what percentage on a nationality basis (a) failed to leave Australia after the expiration of their authorised period of stay or ( b ) were deported. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 March, 1979: 
1 ) When was information made available in brochure form in each of the countries where Australia has overseas posts for applicants under the new migrant selection system known as NUMAS? 
Were the brochures made available in the language of the country of origin of applicants? 
-In a calm and rational way I would like to bring this debate back to the provisions of the Bill before the House and to talk about this proposal of the Government to widen the powers of the Atomic Energy Act, because it is the view of the Opposition that this Act is not the appropriate vehicle or umbrella for the purposes that the Government is seeking to attribute to it. 
-Could I put my own case in my own quiet way? Having been involved with this matter for a long time and being the member for the area which contains Australia's only atomic reactor, I have had the good fortune to be able to associate with many of the 1,200 people whose lives are bound up with the continuation of the atomic energy program in Australia. They include scientists, physicists, chemists and tradesmen. I am able to live side by side with them in an acceptable way with an attitude that they regard as being quite reasonable in this situation. That is not to say that I am going to be a lapdog or a lackey with regard to the mining interests of Australia or that I am going to be subservient to people who have a Ph.D. or other qualifications behind their names. 
I think as history has transpired events have shown that this whole business of uranium and its development and utilisation are parts of an evolving process about which there is still a great deal yet to be known. I make no apology for the fact that I act as something of a watchdog for the atomic reactor at Lucas Heights. I was a member of the local council when its establishment there was first proposed. I expressed misgivings at the time. I was present representing the then Leader of the Opposition,  Dr Evatt,  on the occasion of the opening by the then  Mr Robert  Menzies in, I think, 1956. Since that time I have had a very close association with the place. 
-I cannot hear the honourable member. The reject from Thatcherism has not been sufficiently Aus.tralianised to be easily understood. 
-I am sorry, I missed the interjection and I will pass it by now. 
-Lucas Heights is involved with the production of isotopes which, of course, are an extremely valuable commodity rendering great benefit to the sick of this country and there is a contention that we cannot import all the sensitive and short-life isotopes without a facility of this kind. So nobody wants to disparage the merit of the reactor by any means. Over the years I have asked probably dozens, maybe hundreds, of questions on notice on this subject. I am currently involved in collating those questions and I hold the first edition in my hand. Their headings concern such matters as the radiation standards applying to the reactor, because there are great misgivings that it might have a danger element about it. The honourable member for Holt shakes his head, but there are very accomplished people who contend otherwise. I am not a proficient judge of the situation, but I am responsible enough, as a watchdog for my constituents, to look very carefully at these matters. 
There are also questions concerning the health of workers and residents. Very serious contentions in this respect are being made by the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draftsmen of Australia, who are professional people. The union representative,  Mr Meyer,  has been putting his case through the media recently and he is very well informed. He has been able to document his contention that there has been a very serious deterioration of the standards of safety in that plant. He has detailed them and if I had time tonight I would be able to detail them too. The establishment has to pull up its socks in that regard. There are also questions concerning radioactive waste being discharged into the Waronora River, which is in close proximity, and into the atmosphere. 
The discharge into the river is of such consequence that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has not yet been able apparently to meet the requirements of the Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and, therefore, is unable to discharge its effluent into the sewer main of Sydney. As a consequence of that it is still going into the Woronora River. Some people, including scientists, physicists and chemists, contend that people who are subjected over a concentrated period to an incessant but low level radioactive element by way of utilising that water, swimming in it or even eating fish from it, can suffer deleterious effects. These are very serious things. 
We now have on hand the question of the siting of the reactor. During a recent adjournment debate I mentioned that there is a movement of citizens without party affiliation who want to have the reactor relocated, not just out of the southern part of Sydney, where it is located now, but out of any city. A design cost study is going on now in respect of the new reactor. Of course, it is possible that we could have two reactors, the existing one and a new one, in what is now a metropolitan area because the development has converged on to that previously isolated and lonely place. That is a matter of some consequence because people do suffer anxieties about these issues. There are so many matters of this kind, which are real to an honourable member who represents people in the area which includes the Lucas Heights reactor. They would be real to any honourable member who happened to represent people in such an area. 
-I am not saying that I mind, either. I am simply saying that if the honourable member had a reactor in his electorate he would hear precisely the same expressions of concern from his constituency. But God knows whether he would be as responsible in representing the people with those anxieties as I am. That is the point I am making. For ages and ages I have been trying to get information about safety plans, and about what will happen in respect of this reactor if something goes wrong. I think that my initial questions on this matter probably sparked off the interest of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in actually instituting a safety plan. I think that the Commission gets involved every time I ask another question about the issue. But until recently the staff at the reactor had no knowledge of their obligations and of their role in times of a disaster. Indeed, none of the people who live in proximity to the reactor as yet knows what his role will be in the event of such a disaster. Naturally, if there were a disaster, many state instrumentalities would be involved- the police, fire brigades and heavens knows what. The local regional paper, called the St George and Sutherland Shire  Leader  which is a very big paper with some one hundred and something thousand circulation - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am only trying to put to the House a matter of serious concern! I think that we ought to regard seriously the fact that a responsible newspaper with a very large circulation has contended that recently the Holsworthy artillery range was responsible for jettisoning a shell or some explosive device which landed on the road in fairly close proximity to Australia's only atomic reactor. If that is not a matter of very serious concern, God knows what is. Honourable members opposite might laugh about the matter. I would hate to have one of them represent me in the national Parliament when the well-being of the citizen is vulnerable to such threats. I have a question on the Notice Paper about this matter today because the contention has been made by a responsible paper. It has not been denied. I have been inundated by constituents who contend that they have seen the place where the missile landed and that it was too close to the reactor for them to feel at all placated. However, I did not mean to mention any of that. 
The attitude of the Opposition to the Bill is that the Atomic Energy Commission should not be empowered to raise funds for uranium mining on the commercial market until such time as the unresolved problems associated with the nuclear industry have been resolved satisfactorily. The Opposition contends also that the Atomic Energy Act is an inappropriate legislative basis for nuclear energy research and development and for commercial activities and that it should be repealed and replaced by other legislation. In our amendment to the motion that this Bill be read a second time, we have enunciated a new concept of administration for the various matters concerned- commercial matters, mining matters and the like. We do not believe that one authority can competently handle all these matters. 
The Bill seeks to enable the Commission to borrow from the Commonwealth and other sources. The amendments embodied in the Bill are designed to enable the Commission to issue securities in respect of borrowings other than from the Commonwealth and to exempt the Commission from the payment of tax under any law of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory. One wonders why that is necessary. Why cannot the Commonwealth raise the loans which are necessary to facilitate the new mining ventures in which the Government has become a partner at Ranger? Of course, we know the reason. Already the Government is embarrassed by the high level of borrowing it has undertaken. The Government's borrowing has reached record levels. To defuse that situation, it is now staving off the borrowing role to various instrumentalities. It will not bear the odium; the Atomic Energy Commission is to go on the market. 
The reasons for extending commercial powers to the Commission arise from the Government's decision to use the Atomic Energy Act to mine the Ranger uranium deposit. That decision is contrary to the express findings and recommendations of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. Let me remind honourable members of the contents of the Fox report. We have been given no explanation why the Government has departed from the recommendations of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox and the members of his Inquiry, who joined with him in the production of that very excellent document. Why did the Government disregard that report? It has no counterargument to what  Mr Justice  Fox said in that report. The Government eulogises him. It has made him a roving ambassador to speak authoritatively about atomic matters all around the world and in the United Nations. Yet the Government has ignored his advice. It has denied him. This is what is stated at page 248 of the second Fox report: 
We strongly recommend against the use of that Act - 
That is, the Atomic Energy Act 1 953 -  for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. 
We are entitled to know why this Government is thumbing its nose at the recommendations of such an august inquiry. After all, this Bill is designed to strengthen the Atomic Energy Act, even though obviously that Act is the wrong vehicle. We are not the only ones saying that;  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox has said that in those clear, unequivocal, unambiguous terms and no honourable member from the Government's side has said why the Government has disregarded  Mr Justice  Fox's advice. 
Section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act gives wide powers to the Commonwealth which are not appropriate for a commercial body. I do not want my constituents, who are decent people with a great economic investment in terms of a career in the Atomic Energy Commission, as scientists, physicists and specialists of various kinds, to get caught up in the politicalisation of this whole racket. I do not want them to get caught up in section 41 of that Act. That provision was enacted at a time when there was a need to secure Australian uranium for use by Great Britain and the United States of America in a nuclear weapons program. That is what it was about. Of course, that is not what the Act is to be used for now. 
Why were the recommendations of Fox ignored? The Labor movement has strong attitudes about this matter. Under the extremely repressive provisions of the Atomic Energy Act and the associated Approved Defence Projects Protection Act, the Government has the power to deny ordinary industrial rights to the workers and unions involved in the mining, handling and transportation of uranium. That is fair enough in times of war if uranium is to be used for purposes of defence or purposes of aggression against an opponent. But it is not the kind of vehicle which is needed to suppress workers in times of peace. The civil rights of persons who hinder or oppose the project are not guaranteed. The mining companies can be allowed to determine the composition and the evaluation of the work force. The Army can be called in to ensure that operations are not stopped. Why is that necessary at Ranger, where we are supposed to be producing yellowcake for purely peaceful purposes? What the hell has that to do with the Army? It should not have any more to do with the Army than has any other kind of production, unless the Government is aiming to establish a police or militaristic state in this country. If the Government has to produce uranium without conducting proper investigation and inquiry, it should do so without the aid of the police and the military. We do not want the workers of this country to be in such an intimidatory situation as is provided for under the Atomic Energy Act. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  smiles, but I think that he would have regard for this sort of civil liberty and probably would genuinely want this question answered as would any decent Australian. So far it has not been answered, either in the second reading speech of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  or in the remarks of the honourable member for Patterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  with his brief from the mining companies, to which he often gives voice in this Parliament. People can be fined between $1,000 and $10,000, or jailed for six to 12 months, for hindering or obstructing the mining project. Because of the security provisions of the Act, workers can be denied full information on the materials handled and the dangers involved, as well as the results of health checks. 
Some time ago I asked a question about that matter and received the following answer: 
The Ranger project is a commercial undertaking for wholly peaceful purposes and with proper safeguards. As was made clear during the debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Act 1978 in the Senate on 29 May 1978, the Government's policy is that penal provisions enacted for defence purposes would not be applied to the Ranger project. 
That answer was given to me by the Minister for National Development. He said that these provisions were not to be applied. Nevertheless, they happen to be in the Act. We do not believe it to be appropriate to utilise the Act for this purpose. Is it beyond the wit and capacity of this 
Government to contrive and to initiate another Act? The Minister says that the provisions of the Act will not be invoked but, of course, we know that on many occasions promises of this kind have been broken. 
The Opposition wants to act responsibly in this matter. Very recently the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in a submission to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Review of Research and Development Activities, put an alternative proposal which would no doubt be acceptable to the Atomic Energy Commission and to the workers of this country. It involves adopting a new approach to the whole question of mining and utilising uranium. 
If one looks at the document which has been produced by the Parliamentary Library and which shows the role of the Atomic Energy Commission, one finds that, so far, that Commission has experienced a cavalcade of very serious disappointments. Reference is made to the bum steers that have been pursued by the Commission: The high temperature gas-cooled reactor which was terminated and which was referred to in the fourteenth report as virtually a lost cause; the liquid metal-fuelled reactor, a commitment that lasted for 2 years, after which it was terminated; the small reactors project which, again, continued for a few years but which became mainly of long term periodic interest only, with little promise of immediate application; the Cape Keraudren proposal, which was part of the Plowshare program put forward by  Mr Daniel  Ludwig and the like of Clutha; and the Jervis Bay reactor. They all happened  to be white  elephants. It seems to me that the Government ought to look very seriously at the alternative proposals that have been put by the Leader of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission lose its exclusing rights to televise test cricket simply because this Government slashed the ABC's budget and left it without the capacity to submit a competitive tender? Can the Minister give a firm assurance that the ABC will not be further crippled and that no further cuts will be made in ABC services because of government-imposed budget limitations? 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned; (b) what was the subject matter and purpose; and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 21 February1979: 
Was a joint management review of the National Acoustic Laboratories of the Department of Health completed in late November1978. 
If so, why have appropriate staff associations been refused information on any review proposals for reorganisation of the Laboratories thus preventing an opportunity for them to submit comment. 
Do the review proposals contain any suggestion of diverting some of the services provided by the Laboratories to the public; if so, would this lead to increased costs to the public, especially pensioners, for the supply of hearing aids. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) In view of the findings of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on the possible adverse neurophysiological effects of television on children, what funds has the Government allocated or does it intend to allocate, to further research in this area. 
What other measures has the Government taken, or does it intend to take, to ensure that the Australian public is made aware of the possible dangers involved. 
Will the Government provide the funds necessary to test the Emerys' hypothesis concerning the neurophysiological effects of television as recommended by the Committee. 
In each case, to whom have funds been allocated, or to whom will they be allocated. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations relating to (a) advertising and (b) education programs made by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts in its report on the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children has the Government (i) accepted or (ii) rejected. 
In respect of those recommendations rejected, what were the reasons for rejection in each case. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
How many of the 1000 training and work experience opportunities offered by the Commonwealth on 23 January 1 979 to assist young unemployed persons have been given to unemployed youth in the Electoral Divisions of (a) Hughes and (b) Cook. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 197S to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by the Department of Science and the Environment in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed? 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his Department sought the professional assistance of the National Acoustic Laboratories (NAL) to measure and evaluate noise associated with activities at the Holsworthy Army Base, NSW. 
If so, (a) when were the tests carried out by NAL, (b) what instructions were issued to NAL, (c) what were the findings for each of the monitoring points and (d) what recommendations did NAL make to his Department to reduce noise levels for (i) personnel using the equipment and (ii) residents living within 3 kilometres of Holsworthy base. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Are any documents available to his Department which establish whether a large number of 44 gallon drums containing mustard gas were deposited by the Army in a disused railway tunnel at Lapstone, NSW, during the 1939-45 war. 
If so, (a) how many drums were deposited, (b) from where were they taken to Lapstone and (c) on what date or dates were they transported to Lapstone. 
Were these drums of mustard gas moved from the railway tunnel. 
If so, (a) how many drums were removed, (b) on what date or dates and to which place or places were they removed, (c) what was the condition of both drums and gas at the time of removal and (d ) where are they now. 
Is the same railway tunnel now used as a commercial mushroom farm, 
If so, what action was taken to ensure that no deleterious effects would accrue either to farm employees, farm products and consumers, or persons working in the vicinity or the general environment. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in each year from 197S to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Why did the head of the Federal Narcotics Bureau,  Mr Harvey  Bates, resign from the Bureau last Friday? What was the nature of the deals or pressures which caused him to change his mind and withdraw his resignation? 
-There is a contention abroad to the effect that the atomic reactor in my electorate is under threat. I have here a circular or a minute paper which is signed by the manager of the HIFAR operations section of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment. The minute is dated 25 May 1979, the reference is GAC:FRB and the subject matter is: 'Security Arrangements- HIFAR. ' It states: 
Because of the escalation of security arrangements in the HIFAR area many of your staff may wonder why the indecent haste, when, for many years, there was virtually no local security. 
I think it is worthwhile letting your staff know that: 
1 ) the latest moves (24 hr police coverage + locking of the APR) have been instigated as there is evidence of a higher threat at the moment as Japanese anti-nuclear activists arc alleged to be in the country to train local activists in some of the finer (and perhaps not so fine) points of being anti-nuclear activists. 
The institution of better security arrangements had been proposed for some time prior to their recent implementation. I don't think its likely we'll sec a relaxation  in security as time goes on, but it may change in method. To a large degree this rests with the Director of Commission Security. 
That is the end of that minute which is signed by the manager of the HIFAR operations section. I believe that this is a matter of concern. I do not want to overdramatise it. It is an official paper and I think that it is very important to draw it to the attention of the House. If, in fact, there had been such a serious threat to the well-being of 1,200 employees at that research establishment and, indeed, to many of my constituents who live in close proximity to that establishment, this Parliament should be entitled to know something about the extent of security arrangements being instituted. 
I would like to know whether the circular is upheld by the Government and whether the Government is prepared to join with this contention about the threat of Japanese anti-nuclear activists who are supposed to be here or who could be here. The paper states that: 'activists are alleged to be in the country to train local activists in some of the finer (and perhaps not so fine) points of being anti-nuclear activists'. There are many anti-nuclear activists in my area in my Party. I regard all of them as decent people who are concerned with the environment. They are people who are very loyal to this country. I believe that it is a very serious reflection on them for anyone to contend that they would be capable of being subjected to any manipulation by such Japanese anti-nuclear activists. Perhaps this is an excuse for telephone tapping. Perhaps it is an excuse for the infringement of civil liberties. I do not know what it is, but I think it is important to say that if this nuclear reactor is under threat this Parliament, the constituents in my electorate and the workers in that plant are entitled to know what is being done to protect their well-being. 
It is interesting to note that in recent times there has been a concurrent contention that machinery has been stolen from that reactor. It is alleged that a lathe, a drill-press and a bench grinder which were to go to building 42 workshop disappeared from the isotope workshop. Inquiries have been conducted into the disappearance of that equipment. It would take a crane to move it. If that has occurred there is something very seriously wrong with the security in the atomic reactor. If a possibility exists of Japanese anti-nuclear activists being in the country there is a reason for this Government to come clean and to tell us precisely what is the position. I regard this matter with the utmost alarm and I am prepared to table the paper for the benefit of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  who represents the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  who I have not had the time to contact. I ask him to report to the Parliament with the greatest expedition. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) When are the surveys on the environment and work related health hazards of both current and former employees of the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW to commence. 
In particular, when are the reports referred to in answer to question No. 3192  (Hansard,  4 April 1979, page 1551) to commence. 
What is the ambit of each of the reports. 
Who is to prepare the reports 
What sums have been allocated for each of the studies and when are the studies expected to be completed. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
What sums were granted by the Australia Council to (a) individuals and (b) organisations in each electoral division in (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) I July 1978 to date. 
-Does the Minister for National Development accept responsibility for an official minute circulated at Lucas Heights Atomic Research Establishment which seeks to justify escalation of security arrangements in the HIFAR reactor area? Does this minute claim that Japanese anti-nuclear activists are alleged to be in the country to train local activists in antinuclear activity? What evidence is there to support this claim? Are establishment employees or local residents under any threat or danger? Are any local activists being investigated as possible threats to the reactor or is this an unjustifiable innuendo, probably prompted to provide some justification for telephone tapping or some curtailment of civil liberties? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker. In the House today the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  claimed that he had not seen a minute circulated at Lucas Heights which claimed that security had been tightened up because of an alleged threat by Japanese anti-nuclear activists. The Minister claimed that I had not complied with requests to make the minute available. That is not correct. Last night a member of the Minister's staff agreed to call at my office to collect the minute. A member of my staff and I waited for 15 minutes after the House had risen, but no one from the Minister's staff came to collect that document. This morning, at five past nine, I made a copy available to a member of the Minister's office. Clearly the Minister needs another alibi for his incompetent reply this morning at Question Time. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What recommendations contained in the independent inquiry into the Repatriation System has the Government rejected or ignored and what are the reasons for the failure to act upon these recommendations. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) Are members of the public able to obtain access to the library facilities of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
If so, what conditions and restrictions are imposed on the use of the facilities. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
When radioactive materials are transported to and from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's Research Establishment at Lucas Heights, NSW, (a) which State or local government authority is notified in advance, (b) what methods of transportation are used and (c) which Federal, State or local government authority supervises transportation of the radioactive material to ensure that there are no breaches of the 1973 regulations for the safe transport of radioactive material issued by the International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Depanment in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
How many persons have been employed by the National Acoustic Laboratories in each year from 1 970 to date. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May, 1979: 
Is it a fact that during 1978 allegations were made against 2 officials of the Philippine Embassy in Canberra, relating to the alleged falsification of customs documents in order to obtain various goods under diplomatic privilege. 
If so, when Australian customs officers sought to interview officers of the Philippine Embassy in relation to these allegations, did the then Philippine Charge d 'Affaires,  Mrs Rosalinda  Tirana, claim diplomatic immunity and refuse to allow the customs officers to conduct interviews. 
Did the Philippine Government recently make a complaint to Australian authorities alleging that a former Philippine Charge d 'Affaires,  Mr Joselito  Azurin, had embezzled Philippine Government funds and that the Philippine Government was waiving any diplomatic immunity he may have had so that the allegations could be investigated by the Australian police. 
If so, will the Government now press the Philippine Government to also waive immunity in the case of trie alleged defrauding of Australian customs revenue referred to in part (1) so that the allegations may also be fully investigated. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i) official offices and (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A)11 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77, (C) 1977-78 and (D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
How many cadetships with the Australian Government were offered through the Public Service Board in which (a) professional and (b) technical areas during (i)1975, (ii) 1976, (iii) 1977 and (iv) 1978. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
How many officers of his Depanment involved with the Community Youth Support Scheme (CYSS) are able to communicate with participants in languages other than English. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Has any damage been caused to roads adjacent to the Holsworthy Field Firing Range in the last ten years as a result of present or past Defence Forces activity; if so, what was the cause of the damage and the cost of repairs. 
What action has the Government taken to ensure the safety of the public in the vicinity of the Range. 
What precautions have been taken to ensure the safety of the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Lucas Heights from such activity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that, at the recent National Aboriginal Conference, a resolution requesting that a treaty of commitment be executed before the Aboriginal nation and the Australian Government, was unanimously passed. 
) Has the Government received a formal request regarding the treaty from representatives of the Aboriginal people. 
3 ) What action will be taken in relation to the resolution. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
What matters remain to be considered before the Government strengthens section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act to deal adequately with tax avoidance schemes. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) How many changes to the work test applying to applicants for unemployment benefits have been made since December 1975. 
) What were these changes. 
3 ) When were the changes put into effect. 
How many persons have been refused unemployment benefits or had their benefit withdrawn for failure to comply with any one component of the successive work tests put into operation. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) How many (a) applicants for unemployment benefits and (b) persons in receipt of unemployment benefits have been refused a benefit or had their benefit withdrawn because of their refusal to accept a job within  Vh  hours travelling time by public transport from their place of residence since December 1975. 
2 ) How many of those persons were in the 1 7 to 20 years age group. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
In view of the Government's policy information paper Natural Disaster Insurance, dated May 1 979 which indicates that Government's and Government Authorities should, to the maximum extent possible, seek to avoid intervention in matters that can be left to the private sector, which private sector insurance companies operating in Australia offer insurance cover for losses caused, related to, or arising from, landslip. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Has there been a delay in processing and reporting on data collected by the National Acoustic Laboratories (NAL); if so, to what does he attribute these delays. 
What reports commissioned in the last 3 years have not been completed by NAL. 
What are the reasons for the delay or failure to complete each of the reports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by the Department of Education in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 21. February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i ) official offices and (ii ) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A) II November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) I976-77,(C) 1977-78 and (D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What research programs into the effects of mass media communication on Australian society (a) have been funded by the Australian Government during the periods (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77, (iii) 1977-78 and (iv) 1 July 1978 to date, and (b) are currently under consideration for funding. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) How many assisted passages were granted to migrants who were last resident in (a) the United Kingdom, (b) New Zealand, (c) South Africa, (d) Lebanon, (e) Turkey, (f) Greece, (g) Italy, (h) Spain, (j) Portugal, (k) Chile, (1) India, (m) Thailand, (n) the Philippines, (o) the United States of America, and (p) Canada during (i) 1975, (ii) 1976; (iii) 1977,(iv) 1978 and(v) 1979 to date. 
What were the (a) nationalities and (b) professional or other trade qualifications of those migrants granted assistance. 
What percentage of applicants from these countries were refused assisted passage to Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Are all applicants for migrant entry to Australia under the Government's new migrant selection system (NUMAS) interviewed before a determination as to their suitability is made. 
If not, (a) how many applicants from (i) Greece, (ii) Turkey, (iii) the United Kingdom, (iv) the United States of America, (v) Lebanon, (vi) India (vii) Pakistan, (viii) France, (ix) Italy, (x) Ireland, (xi) South Africa, (xii) Chile, (xiii) Israel, (xiv) Cyprus, (xv) Malta, (xvi) Mauritius, (xvii) Indonesia, (xviii) the Philippines, (xix) Fiji and (xx) Rhodesia have been determined as unsuitable without a personal interview since the system was introduced and (b); what percentage of all migrant applications received from those countries were rejected (i) without interview and (ii) after an interview. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed? 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
) For each of the opinion polls or surveys, 
which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, 
b ) what was the subject and purpose and 
what was the cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by the Attorney-General's Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed? 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose, and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How much radioactive waste is in temporary storage in places other than those under the exclusive control and responsibility of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
Where, what and how is it stored, and what quantity is involved. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 May 1 979: 
Further to my question No. 3255  (Hansard,  8 May 1979, page 1972), will he provide all specific information requested in parts (2) and (5). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) What percentage of the insurance industry operating in Australia is under foreign ownership or control as defined by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
What were the expressed fears concerning the solvency of sections of the Australian insurance industry put forward to Government when it was considering proceeding with its March 1 976 commitment to introduce a national disaster insurance scheme. 
Who or which companies or organisations expressed these fears- 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
What practical problems were identified in offering insurance cover for landslip. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
How often has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Safety Review Committee met during each year since 1962. 
During this period (a) how many reviews have been undertaken. ( b ) what activities or actions were the subject of review, (c) what were the individual findings of the committee, (d) how often has the committee sought information from or consulted with( i) workers and (ii) staff of the establishment in relation to an) renew undertaken and (e) how often and what contact has the committee had with members of the community( 1)livng near the research establishment and (ii) with special expertise in relation to anv reviews. 
During the same period(a) who have been members of the committee. ( b.) what are their qualifications and (c) what positions did they hold in private or public enterprise in the 5 years before their appointment 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
How many persons (a) employed by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and (b) others are engaged in the design cost study or the possible siting and building of a new reactor for the Commission. 
How many work hours have been carried out on the study. 
What sums have been spent in relation to the study. 
When will the design cost study be available to the public for perusal. 
Will an undertaking be given that the public will have an opportunity to make submissions on the study before a decision is made by the Government. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) When will the second report entitled  Interpretation of Hazard and Recommendations  referred to in his answer to question No. 3780  (Hansard,  5 June 1979, page 2957) be made available. 
When will the surveys on the environment and work related health hazards of both current and former employees of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission be available. 
Since the Army establishment at Holsworthy, New South Wales, was added to my electorate in 1977, I have naturally taken an interest in the welfare of serving members of the forces. I have been very surprised to see the extent of pennypinching that takes place, especially now, at a time when expenditure for defence generally is being increased so extensively. The pennypinching includes things like servicemen's housing which is at an appalling level and the deterioration in the qualifying requirements for defence service homes. 
The matter I wish to raise tonight seems small enough but it is very important to many families. It is the question of mail concessions to serving members of the forces located overseas. Several constituents have raised this matter with me. It is known that this Government eliminated that concession which previously had existed for many years. One constituent proposed that consideration be given to nominating a central pick-up point for such mail, at least in our capital cities. She was concerned in particular with people serving at Butterworth in Malaysia. She was aware of the fact that Hercules aircraft go regularly to that base. She suggested that if there were a central pick-up point at the General Post Office in Sydney or Melbourne, something would be able to be done in order to accommodate servicemen's parcels. She stated: 
Costs of postage are now forcing us to curtail simple supplements, i.e., a one kilogram packet of powdered milk-$ 10.60. 
She further stated: 
Much pleasure is gained and given in sending the odd parcel, particularly at birthdays or Christmas. Simple things. Clean rice, decent powdered milk, fresh nuts free of weevils, the occasional Bonds cotton or home knit and of course a home made fruit cake. 
She went on to state: 
My quote for a very small cake under two kilograms was $ 10 and one packet of Dutch Jug milk costing $1.35, was $ 10.60 to post. 
She has raised a very fundamental and real matter. She also said that she could personally afford it but she knew of elderly people, pensioner families, who wished to communicate with their relatives serving overseas and were finding it difficult to do so. She hoped that something might be done for them. I wrote to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in this regard and in his usual respectful way he sent back a reply which I do not regard as satisfactory. He said: 
The concessions were originally an aid in maintaining morale during war situations. 
I cannot see the difference. They are lonely people, even in peace time. He continued: 
Later they were extended to personnel serving in Special Overseas Service Areas. As there are now no areas so designated, the Government decided to abolish the concessions. 
Unfortunately, I have to advise that the RAAF is not in a position to develop a service along the lines suggested  . . Such a system is not consistent with the basic roles of the RAAF and would have significant administrative and manpower implications. 
I do not accept that at all. I think the Minister has taken this matter too lightly. I should have liked the opportunity to raise this matter with him tonight. No doubt he will take up the matter. I just ask him to reconsider it. Our forces are currently stationed in a number of locations overseas. This is a very serious situation. Of course at Christmas time the business of sending Christmas presents is affected. I remind the Minister and the Government that a concession of this kind is maintained by the United Kingdom and the United States and probably by most other countries. I think it is a reflection on this Government that it is treating the serving members of the forces of Australia in such an indifferent and contemptible way in regard to a matter which concerns their morale and their well-being when they are serving this nation in far-off places. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i) official offices and (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A) II November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77, (C) 1977-78 and (D) I July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his station official overseas trips and; (b) the rent overseas of; (i) official offices and; (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods, (A) 11 November 1975 to 30 June 1975; (B) 1976-77; (C) 1977-78 and; (D) I July 1978 to date. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
What (a) direct financial Government assistance, (b) indirect Government assistance and (c) other assistance has been given to (i) primary, (ii) manufacturing, (iii) mining and (iv) other industries in Australia for each year from 1965-66 to date. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i) official offices and (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A) 11 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77,(C) 1977-78 and (D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
-Five Bills are being taken into consideration in this cognate debate. They are about enormously complex and complicated subjects. I think it is fair to say that nobody could claim to be an expert on all these matters. Nevertheless, as one who runs a small boat and who takes an interest in navigational and nautical matters, I can express the same views as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  which were to the effect that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  can be given some credit for taking up the initiative shown by his predecessor, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who brought a revised navigation Bill before the Parliament when the Australian Labor Party was last in office. 
Tonight we are debating the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979, the Lighthouses Amendment Bill, the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Amendment Bill, the SeaCarriage of Goods Amendment Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill. I suppose that the main Bill is the Navigation Amendment Bill. It is the only one that we will really have time to talk about. The basis of it came from the Labor Government's 1975 legislation, which failed to pass through both Houses. On that memorable date in 1975 when the Parliament was prorogued that legislation had still to pass through the Senate. The shipping industry has been languishing in this respect as a result of that. Indeed, Australia has been bereft of international obligations in regard to a number of very important conventions affecting the shipping industry and navigation processes. In 1976 another attempt was made to enact this overdue reform. That was frustrated by the prorogation of the Parliament early in 1977. 
The importance of the Navigation Amendment Bill is indicated by the fact that it facilitates Australia's effective participation in five international maritime conventions. I know that the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle, carried a flag about that for the Labor Government of the day, which had a very great sense of responsibility about Australia playing its part in respect of all international conventions. He commissioned the Summers Commision of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry, whose report did not come to fruition until the Australian Labor Party had been removed from government. The present Minister for Transport received that report. It is rare for me to pay any tribute to him, but I think it is fair to say that on this occasion he has grasped the nettle. That is not to say that everything has been taken care of sufficiently. As he knows, there are some notable omissions from the legislation. A few improvements are still desired. One of them concerns off-shore vessels and fixed off-shore stations associated with the exploitation of the sea. Of course, that encompasses the drilling of oil and matters of that kind. These matters have not been finalised with all the States. I understand that Western Australia is pulling rank a bit about this matter. 
I do not want to make things harder for the Minister. As one who has negotiated with the States, I know the difficulties that he has experienced in this regard. Nonetheless, he has had a fair time to bring his diplomatic prowess to bear. We hope that it will not be long before that problem is resolved. Another matter for consideration is the penal provisions under section 100 of the Navigation Act and the 1 1 offences that can be invoked under that section. There is a strong view about that to the effect that there is contravention of certain International Labour Organisation conventions. It is a dicey and complex matter. I do not want to dwell on it, but I say to the Minister that it is about time he found a happy solution to that as well. It would have been good, and I think within the realms of expectation, for it to have been incorporated in this legislation. I do not want to dwell on the matter but I urge the Minister to act effectively on it. 
Among the five important conventions is the one setting the limitation of liability of owners of sea-going ships. Under this provision liability limits will be increased from, I think, $28 a tonne to $ 1 79 a tonne for personal claims and from $ 1 5 a tonne to $57 a tonne for property. Of course, that is a very great advancement in that it provides the capacity for people to get equity and a just return in times of loss of personal property. It puts an onus on the shipowners to meet in full liabilities in respect of damage caused to harbour works and the removal of wrecks. A gratifying feature of this Bill and the other legislation is that it will give effect to a call by sea-going unions for shipowners to be prevented from limiting liability for claims by crew members serving under Commonwealth articles. I know that the seagoing unions have contended that they have been disadvantaged for quite some time. Their representations to and consultations with the Minister and his departmental officers are bearing fruit. I hope that the employees of the industry- the people who make the world go round in this regard- will benefit as a result of the initiatives taken. 
Another convention we will take up with the enactment of this legislation, if it is to be enacted, is a convention relating to the prevention of collisions at sea. Although we have been cooperative in practising these regulations since 1977, giving effect to the whole spirit of the convention, the State and Federal Acts under which our regulations were made were not effective in embracing all coastal shipping. This legislation overcomes that problem. In that regard it serves a very good purpose. The international convention for the safety of life at sea is no less important than the others to which I have referred. The Bill gives effect to that convention, covering as it does the entire gamut of safety. The complexity of the legislation can be seen from the fact that to comply with this convention our Federal and State Acts and regulations have to specify all requirements about safety. The inclusion of a tremendous variety of matters is contemplated. They include measures concerning radio communication and equipment, fire protection, engine specifications, cargo-carrying rules, lifeboats and many other safety related matters which have not been adequately covered previously. 
Another convention ties Australia to world standards for cargo containers. It covers matters concerning their size, strength and maintenance. In fact, it covers all the considerations relating to the safety of containers used in the international field of maritime transportation. The fifth international convention which this legislation embraces is the convention on tonnage measurement for ships. It relates tonnage to the volume of interior cargo space and provides for international universality in the measurement of ships and the levying of dues. This Bill, more than most others, highlights the exceptional difficulty which results from the constitutional situation in Australia. We have to have regard for the fact that this is not the only sovereign parliament in Australia. The States often feel their oats and want to make their position felt. 
In respect of four of these conventions the States, as well as the Commonwealth, are able to assume legislative responsibility in the case of intrastate shipping. The States, of course, have an unrestricted prerogative to determine the kinds of rules and regulations to apply within the boundaries of the individual States and in relation to the off-shore area that each controls. But in relation to interstate and international trade, the laws of the Australian Government prevail. There can, of course, be a great proliferation of codes and regulations under Federal-State legislation. I suppose that all of us have some anxiety that the user, the consumer, the master of the ship, the ship owner, the union employee might in the end be able to sort out the great mass of paper containing State and Federal laws. Of, course, it is very important for Australians to realise the liabilities under which we operate in respect of these matters. There could well come a time when we have to decide all these things at a referendum which seeks to put Australia on such a basis that it is at no less disadvantage than any other country. 
I am told that in respect of small sea-going craft of under 500 tonnes there are some 1,800 pages of technical requirements. It is a most complex code to which both the Commonwealth and the States are likely to give effect. Understandably, the regulating of larger ships and tankers is a bigger and even more complex issue. The adequacy and competence of a ship's complement is spelt out in the Bill. All these things can be varied by requirements set down by the Minister. In respect of the nature of a ship's voyage, different rules may be made, depending on where the ship is going. 
I turn now to the matter of a ship's cargo. Let me intrude with the consideration that a ship might be carrying uranium- heaven forbid that that should happen, but it might eventuate- or some other dangerous cargo with pollutive potential. It is within the prerogative of the Minister to make his own special enactments in relation to such matters as the location of the port. These things also have to be taken into account. It just seems to me that that is a great power for any Minister to have. I am not talking personally about the present Minister. I know that he does not revel in the great obligations he has in this area. The sooner we cause these things to become rights by legislative enactments, the better; the sooner we minimise ministerial prerogative, the better. I think this situation underlines the need to set up structures and processes by which the industry at large can be effective in evaluating the situation and advising the Minister. In that way the Parliament can be advised about what the Minister is doing, and we can react and respond accordingly. This legislation lays down new criteria about qualifications of masters, officers and seamen. In this regard new requirements are specified about the instruction, training, examinations, and certificates of qualification of sea-going personnel. Standards are being upgraded. They lay the basis, of course, for the curriculum to be adopted by Tasmania's new maritime college. 
-The honourable member for Denison obviously enjoys the mention of that institution whose establishment is imminent. He will probably acknowledge that its estblishment was the initiative of a Labor Government of which I am very justifiably proud. I hope that some kind of distinction and recognition will be brought to Tasmania because it will be the home of this great training facility for Australia's maritime industry. It represents a great achievement of the Government of which I was a member. 
New manning scales are to be substituted for the old manning committees. Only time will tell whether the new scheme serves the interests of the workers in the industry and, of course, serves the industry at large to advantage. The Opposition will be watching the situation with very great interest. The six maritime unions do not readily acknowledge that what is proposed is the best idea. There has been a process under which manning committees have taken into account the nature of voyages, the nature of the industry, the nature of the cargo and all kinds of things. As I understand the position, that process is to be jettisoned. I have with me a copy of the MarchApril 1979 issue of the  Seamen's Journal.  Under the heading 'Safety Manning' an article in that journal states: 
The Union reaffirms its opposition to the present proposals on minimum safety manning. 
Under the heading 'Manning Individual Ships' the article goes on in a very compromising way to state: 
While there may be some problems relating to the manning decisions on some vessels we must realistically assess and accept the nature of the industry, the various award provisions and the duties and work involved. 
To enable adequate assessment of manning requirements, where possible an inspection of the ship should take place before manning commutes are held. I think the union is demonstrating a fairly responsible view here. There is to be a second phase into which these processes will move. I hope that before the Minister gets to that stage and seeks to lay down laws in relation to which he wants compliance, industrial peace, cooperation and harmony he will seek to get a real consensus. I feel that in relation to these matters he has had more co-operation from the unions than he has had from some of the States. I would not be surprised if he has had more co-operation from the unions than he has had from some of the important components of the shipping industry- the entrepreneurs or the shipowners as one might choose to call them. There are new technological developments which necessitate new crewing arrangements. It would be absurd to require a modern bulk carrier to crew the same number of able seamen as the 1912 Act required for a sailing vessel. The task for this Bill, therefore, is to contemporise an industry by upgrading the standards of operation, personnel, equipment and safety. It is to be done in terms of the art of the possible. The name of the game, as I see it and as the Opposition sees it, is to give effect to all these decent ideals and then to keep Australian vessels in an internationally competitive trade. 
A lot could be said about this matter, but let me summarise my feelings. This is a vital industry. We are not doing as well as we should in it. There are 1 1 modern ships operating bulk and liner services. In 1976-77 those ships transported more than one million tonnes in imports and two million tonnes in exports. These quantities represented 3.7 per cent of total imports and 1.3 per cent of total exports. Australia is the seventeenth nation in the world and we have a very meagre participation in shipping. I hope that our acceptance of a new navigation concept and our participation in the objectivity of the world's shipping industry will enable us to improve our position. We must stop selling out our industry. We have to instil pride in Australians and the shipping industry. We should get into business ourselves so that in the future the Australian flag might fly in many more ports in the world than it has done in the past. 
I wish to raise a matter which is of very great concern to many supporters of democracy throughout Australia. I refer to the infiltration of the Liberal Party of Australia by a man claimed by many to be a pro-Nazi, anti- Jewish propagandist and labelled by reputable authorities in Europe as a war criminal. I refer to the position of  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich in the New South Wales division of the Liberal Party. It will be known to most members of the House that after about two years of vacillation, argument and investigation, Liberal Party authorities in New South Wales finally suspended the membership of this man last week pending further investigation. 
Perhaps this investigation is what the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  had in mind earlier today when he made the curious claim that  Mr Urbanchich  should be regarded as innocent until proved guilty. Why was he suspended from the Liberal Party if he was not regarded as guilty? Does the Minister see the Liberal Party in New South Wales taking over this role from his Department? Why did the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  so obviously run for cover from this issue when it was raised in Question Time today? He was asked directly to give his side of a conversation with  Mr Urbanchich  which  Mr Urbanchich  had given publicly to the great discredit of the Prime Minister. He refused even to offer an answer and waved in his faithful minion, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  With that, the Government tried to bury the issue even deeper with a spurious claim of sub judice. 
I refer the House to the huge volume of documentary and verbal evidence on the public record indicating that Lyenko Urbanchich was a friend and a tool of Adolf Hitler and that, in pursuit of the same views that cast him in that role, he had moved into the forum of Liberal Party politics. A reputable Yugoslav language newspaper in this country has said: 
What Goebbels was in Fascist Germany, Lyenko Urbanchich, chairman of the Ethnic Council of the Liberal Party of New South Wales, is now in the Liberal Party . . . What has been happening for some time in the Liberal Party of New South Wales has not only caused public concern but also presents an open attack on the democratic tradition of Australia, deceiving the members of the Party and the nation, and we are conscience bound to inform our readers of the activities of the Ethnic Council of the Liberal Party of New South Wales. 
That was the view of the newspaper  Nase Novine  written by its editor  Mr Samardjic. 
By January of this year the unmasking of Lyenko Urbanchich reached international proportions.  His  case was pursued by Simon Wiesenthal, the world's best known Nazi hunter.  Mr Wiesenthal  is a director of the Centre for the Documentation of War Crimes in Vienna. In an article published in London, he made the following charges against Urbanchich all firmly based in evidence held on record: First, that he was a collaborator of what was described as a quisling newspaper in Slovenia at the time of German and Italian occupation; secondly, that he formed a battalion of Slovenian militia to assist the troops of Nazi Germany; thirdly, that formations of this sort were responsible for the deportation and deaths of at least 90 per cent of the Jewish people of Slovenia and for the prosecution and gaoling of Slovenian patriots; and, finally, that these, formations in 1944 and again in 1945 swore direct allegiance to Hitler and the Third Reich. 
Could there be more serious charges against a person who has been purporting to represent ethnic interests in one of the major political parties of this country and who has managed to install himself as head of one of only three autonomous units within the Liberal Party? On the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio program  Broadband  last night, former allied intelligence officers from three countries, academic specialists, journalists who have investigated the case and  Mr Weisenthal  himself all produced the evidence to back these accusations. What is the Liberal Party doing to check on what has been happening within its ranks because of these influences? For that matter, what is this Government doing to find out why these matters have surfaced only now? Does the bland indifference of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs today represent the attitude of this Government? This man, at the end of the war, was one of the leading collaborators with the Nazis in Slovenia. He was the editor of their officially backed newspaper. We are entitled to know how he came to escape the screening of Australian immigration. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i) official offices and (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A)11 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77,(C) 1977-78 and (D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i) official offices and (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A) November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77, (C) 1977-78 and (D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
Which of the penal provisions contained in the Atomic Energy Act and the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act will not apply to the proposed new Ranger Mine. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minster, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) How many applications for overseas visits by public servants have been made to the Oversea Visits Committee in each year from 1972 to 1978, for each Commonwealth Government Depanment and Commission. 
How many visits were (a) recommended and (b) rejected. 
3 ) What were the most common reasons for the rejection of visits. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 1968 have strontium 90 readings in milk samples been collected at monitoring stations at Menai, Richmond and Campbelltown. 
) What were the readings in each case. 
What are the reasons for not publishing in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission environmental survey reports that readings referred to in part ( 1 ). 
If the readings were not taken, why was the monitoring discontinued and will he issue instructions to cause the readings to be commenced forthwith. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) How many nuclear reactors are currently in existence in Australia and what is the location of each. 
What is the operating status of each reactor. 
Are there a number of sites under consideration for the location of a new nuclear reactor in Australia; if so, what are these sites. 
Which sites are within a 3 mile radius of existing metropolitan residentail developments. 
5 ) Which sites are within a 10 mile radius of metropolitan residential development as projected to 1990. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) What independent checks are made in Australia by Federal Government Authorities or other Authorities to ensure that enriched fuel transported to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights, NSW, is in accordance with the International Atomic Energy Agency 1973 Regulations, as amended, for the safe transport of radioactive materials. 
Are State and Local Government Authorities notified in advance when radioactive material is transported by road through their respective areas of jurisdiction. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i) official offices and (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A) 11 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77,(C) 1977-78 and(D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i) official offices and (ii) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A) 11 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77,(C) 1977-78 and (D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Will he give an undertaking that radioactive waste or related contaminants in Australia will not be dumped in ocean waters off Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1 975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which Companies or private individuals were commissioned (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Has consideration been given to instituting extradition proceedings against a former Philippine Charge d 'Affairs,  Mr Joselito  Azurin, in order that he may be returned to Australia from the United States of America to stand trial on an embezzlement charge; if so, with what result. 
Will the Government give an assurance that, in the event of  Mr Joselito  Azurin standing trial in Australia and regardless of the outcome of the trial, he will not be forcibly deported to the Philippines where he could expect political persecution as a full-time member of the Movement for a Free Philippines. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1 979: 
What progress has been made into the investigation about the possible acquisition of land in New South Wales for a major Army training area referred to in reply to question No.  29 (Hansard,  8 June 1978, page 3406). 
-As the Opposition Whip, I take this early opportunity of congratulating the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Leo McLeay)  on the occasion of his maiden speech to this Parliament. He is a very worthy successor to a most distinguished former colleague, the late honourable Frank Stewart. I also have the good fortune and the honour of seconding the Opposition's amendment to this Budget. I do not expect that Australians will hang on to every word that I say. Quite frankly, I think the Australian community is totally bored with this debate. It sees it as a non-event. I think it feels quite frustrated and disillusioned with a government that has torn up all its promises. It is also aware that, as bad as this Budget is, so much of the dirty work was done last May in an attempt to confuse the situation even further. But for the little Budget announced last May, the Budget that we are now debating would be even more unattractive. 
Time does not permit me to go through that May Budget but honourable members will recall that it involved tax impositions of $ 1 , 1 00m. Also embodied in it was the virtual destruction of Medibank. I will refresh honourable members' memories on that matter. From 1 September the Commonwealth will not pay the 40 per cent subsidy on any one item where the schedule fee is below $20. Of course, this has the effect of making patients collectively pay $2 10m in a full year for medical services. So many other things were done last May. There was the attempt to clip the wings of the farmers who at long last were having a better time than hitherto. We cut the assistance to needy farmers by $22. 3m under the rural adjustment scheme. An additional $30m was collected from farmers for the export inspection services and disease eradication programs. There also were many little things. I know that one matter involving migrants affected the interests of the shadow minister at the table, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  The fact that passport fees are to rise by $5 makes it so much harder for migrants and their families to return to their homelands for occasional visits. 
Honourable members will remember a small item that was not mentioned too much, from 1 July 1979 an ad valorem revenue customs duty of 2 per cent was imposed on most goods which up until then had been imported free of charge. That is now in progress. That is being taken for granted. It is an enormous inflationary factor which has been felt very keenly by many housewives in the supermarkets. Grants for urban public transport were deferred. Funding to government schools were cut by $42m. The home savings grant had a price tag put on it. I think the combined cost of the land and the house were not to exceed $40,000. Of course, when one gets 25 miles out from the centre of Sydney one pays $25,000 for a quarter acre block of land anyway. With the balance, one is not able to build a house and so the needy young couples are excluded from the benefits of the homes savings grants scheme. 
One could go on and on talking about the pernicious effect of the little Budget last May. Now we are to face the effects of this Budget. This Budget is a high tax Budget; it is a rip-off Budget; and it is a Budget of broken promises. These rip-offs and dishonoured commitments leave the reputation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in ruins. There are many people who contend that he can no longer be trusted in respect of his promises and no longer be believed. Worse still, ordinary Australian wage earners and average families are the victims of his cynical economic manipulation. Australian families will be making - 
-May I have the indulgence of the Chair to make an inquiry about the matter to which you have just referred? 
-This morning a most serious matter was raised by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who contended that violence was threatened to him in the House. Do I understand,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that you consider, by the remarks you have just made, no other action is contemplated in respect of the blatant threat to which you were a witness? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
-I refer to the Press statement of the Minister for National Development on 1 1 September concerning the Commonwealth regional development program. Have funds in excess of $ 1 ,750,000 gone to seven projects in the electorates held by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry? 
Contrary to the contentions of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  there are many anxieties in the community about the far-reaching nature of the provisions of this legislation. It seems to me that the amendments moved by the Opposition are conducive to allaying the widespread fears about this package deal of legislation. 
The honourable gentleman asks: 'In what way?'. I will take a few minutes to explain it to him. Obviously he has not been following the debate. Ten major issues are raised by the Opposition's amendments. The first is to the effect that annual reports about the operation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation ought to be presented to the Parliament. Surely that is a reasonable proposition. So far no one has put up any case against it. The second proposal is that there ought to be regular periodic judicial auditing to ensure that ASIO is complying with its charter, that it is not infringing civil liberties and that it is operating efficiently and effectively. I do not think anybody would say that we could make a mistake if we pursued such a course. Thirdly, there is a contention by the Opposition that the Minister, or the Parliament through the Minister, should be fully informed about the activities of ASIO, not just in respect of the matters to which he directs inquiries but all matters. We propose that the Leader of the Opposition at any time, the alternative 
Prime Minister of the country, should be periodically briefed on all aspects of ASIO. Does anybody think that that is unreasonable? It is not so regarded in the United States or comparable countries around the world. 
We then propose that there should be proper financial accountability by ASIO. That seems to happen in respect of most governmental instrumentalities. Why exclude ASIO from that well established practice? We propose that there should be a better definition of security and subversion. These are the dragnet provisions, the ambiguous provisions, about which there is such far-reaching anxiety in the community. We want to ensure that any tendency to misapplication can be minimised. We also propose that there be a restriction of the circumstances in which warrants may be issued. We propose that the appeal provisions be retrospective. If there is any merit in having them now why should they not be retrospective to take up any disadvantage or unfairness that people in the community have suffered? I cannot see any opposition or spontaneous indignation on the part of any honourable gentleman opposite. We propose that no person should be denied notification of the existence of an adverse security assessment. That is reasonable enough. After all, who can defend himself unless this much is made known to him? Lastly, we propose to restrict the circumstances involving the safety of a security officer and the offence of disclosing an officer's identity. That seems to be a far-reaching provision. 
The Opposition does not oppose the existence of ASIO. In fact, we recognise the need for new legislation to govern the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. We have done so for many years. We have helped to breathe life into the processes that have brought things to the stage where the legislation is again under the spotlight. However, the Opposition believes that the legislation should be withdrawn and redrafted because of significant omissions and because it fails to provide a basis for the establishment of a bipartisan security service. The legislation has already been debated in the Senate. In that place we proposed that it be withdrawn. The Government has refused to accede to this request although some relatively minor amendments to the original legislation were accepted. By refusing the reasonable request of the Opposition, it seems to me that the Government has deliberately preferred a partisan approach to security matters. That is a very unfortunate development. 
Before raising some of the specific objections to this legislation it is important to note that this package deal of Bills should not be viewed in isolation. Since taking office in 1975, this Government has been very active in passing a series of measures which restrict or reduce the economic and political freedom of the individual, restrict the legitimate action of trade unions, suppress information or access to information and limit the freedom of travel to and from Australia. In short, legislation has been passed by this Government which has seriously eroded civil liberties in Australia. I will give some examples. The Fraser Government has created the repressive Industrial Relations Tribunal. It has amended the Trade Practices Act, especially the iniquitous and provocative section 45D to allow workers to be stood down if affected by the strike action of other workers. It steamrolled through Parliament the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill which undermines the alleged political neutrality of the Public Service and allows for the forced retirement of public servants at any age, regardless of their performance. 
In addition, the Government has elected to proceed, contrary to the recommendations of the Fox Commission, with the mining of uranium at Ranger under the repressive Atomic Energy Act and the related Approved Defence Projects Protection Act. It has also prevented the Australian Bureau of Statistics from providing statistics on foreign ownership and participation studies of sections of the Australian economy. It has amended the Migration Act and the Passport Act to limit the freedom of entry to and exit from Australia. It is in this context that this Government's uncompromising attitude towards the ASIO Bills should be viewed. The legislation, if passed without further amendments, will seriously undermine civil liberties in Australia. It is more pernicious in this regard than the odious anti-march legislation in Queensland and the anti-assembly legislation in Western Australia. 
The ASIO legislation runs directly contrary to overseas trends. In the United States there has been increasing scrutiny of security organisations and federal police forces. The United States public, disturbed with the revelations that became known as Watergate, the seemingly unrestrained political intervention of the Central Intelligence Agency and the often repressive activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has demanded that action be taken to make these organisations ultimately accountable to the public. Two important reports can be called to mind in this regard. The Church and Pike reports in the United States have disclosed the para-legal activities of these organisations and have provided the framework for legislative action to curb the excesses of the organisations and to limit thenpowers. 
There is evidence in Australia that organisations or sections within organisations have breached their specific charters. I will give some examples. Firstly, there are those in the report on special branch activities in South Australia by Commissioner White. Then, of course, there are those in the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security- the Hope Report. 
The Fraser Government has decided to place virtually no legal limit on the activities of ASIO, and that is where the Opposition falls out with the Government. We feel that there ought to be some limits. Instead of following the United States example and limiting the powers of ASIO and at least making it accountable to this Parliament and to the people, the Fraser Government has decided to do the opposite and to extend the powers of the Organisation. Australia is emulating not the United States example, but rather the example of the repressive regimes of South America- of Chile, Argentina and Bolivia. If all the other so-called security organisations operating in Australia take the powers vested by the legislation as a blueprint for their activity, there will be a serious curbing of legitimate political activity in this country. As  Mr Justice  Hope warned: 
Democracy thrives on non-violent differences of opinion and attitudes. 
Just let me say that the antithesis is that democracy is dead if differences of opinion are suppressed.  Mr Justice  Hope also said: 
A security organisation must be careful to avoid mistaking mere dissent or non-conformity for subversion. 
In summary, let me say that the Opposition rejects this ASIO Bill because it places ASIO beyond ministerial responsibility. The proper relationship between the Minister and a government instrumentality has been overturned. Section 8 of this legislation for the first time empowers the Director-General of ASIO- who, after all, is a public servant- to override the Minister who, to all intents and purposes, is elected by the people. He can do so 'on the question whether the collection of intelligence  . . concerning a particular individual would ... be justified by reason of its relevance to security'; he can do so 'on the question whether a communication of intelligence  . . would be for a purpose relevant to security'; and he can do so on the question of determining 'the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organisation to a Minister, Department or authority of the Commonwealth'. 
The Minister in charge of ASIO does not have ministerial authority over the actions of the Director-General in the crucial areas relating to who should be investigated and who should get the information. That position is totally unacceptable to the Labor Party and, I believe, to the majority of Australians. It is quite unacceptable that information can be prepared and activity continued for a purpose other than advising the Australian government of the day. In the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security,  Mr Justice  Hope found that in the final analysis Ministers are the ones for whom intelligence advice is produced. 
The Opposition also objects to a wide range of activity- phone tapping surveillance, the entering of premises, et cetera- in which ASIO will be legally able to engage because of the definition of 'subversion' in the Bill. No relationship will be immune to the snooping, the eavesdropping and the telephone tapping facilitated by this legislation; not that of a parliamentarian and his constituent, that of a parishioner and his priest; that of a lawyer and his client; or that of a doctor and his patient. No longer is any such relationship sacrosanct if the director of security has the idea that one party to any of those relationships ought to be suspected. Those contentions were made by honourable members on the other side of the House long ago, when civil liberties were far more important to the Liberal and Country Parties than they are today. Back in the 1 950s, when the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill was under debate, the terminology to which I have just referred was the parlance of the then Government, and not just of the Opposition. 
-It was those intrusions into people's privacy which gave concern to your predecessors- the people who sat on those benches before you did.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I speak not of you but of those who interject. They have lost their sensitivity in respect of such matters. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! I remind the honourable member ibr Hughes not to be fussed about the interjections. He should address his remarks to the Chair. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, that is a very profound ruling and it does you great credit. Section 5 ( 1 ) (a) of the Bill defines subversion' as: 
. activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts (whether by those persons or by others ) for the purpose of overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory: 
The phrase 'likely ultimately to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts' is so wide as to permit ASIO to involve itself in gathering information on, spying on, et cetera, any individual on the basis that that individual is associated with, comes in contact with, or in the past associated with a person who is the subject of surveillance. Who could reasonably expect to be immune forever from that kind of dragnet? For example, a club member could be placed under surveillance because of the unknown activities of another club member. One cannot help but be frightened to think of what might happen on the campus of a university. 
The Opposition in the Senate attempted to restrict the definition by removing the word ultimately' from the definition. This was not accepted by the Government. The only minor concession made by the Government in respect of the definition of 'subversion' was to accept the replacement in clause 5 ( 1 ) (c) of the word 'hostility ' with the word 'hatred '. Thus activities considered to be subversive are also:   . . activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
Clearly the concession is not substantial. The definition obviously remains far too broad. The powers to enter premises, to search for records, to use listening devices, and to open and inspect postal articles should not be based on such a vague, all-inclusive definition. The definition should be more restrictive and the legislation should contain checks and balances guaranteeing that the civil rights of the individual are not infringed. 
The legislation in fact does not even contain the normal checks and balances required by other government instrumentalities. The Director-General's annual report on ASIO's expenditure and activities need not be presented to Parliament. The Labor Party believes that ASIO's annual report should be tabled each year and should contain, in broad terms, information such as the number of warrants issued by the Attorney-General or the Director-General for telephone tapping, mail interception and house entering. We want to know the extent to which this kind of practice becomes the order of the day under a government that seems to treat so indifferently the civil liberties and rights of Australian citizens. It should also contain an audit of ASIO's expenditure for the year. After all, last financial year $ 12.5m was made available, which was an increase of 50 per cent over the preceding two years. The 1979 Budget gives ASIO $ 14.2m, and the Australian Security Intelligence Service $8.3m. 
Members of the Liberal Party in the Senate were of the opinion that some check should be placed on ASIO in this area. However, the Government has made only the trivial concession of allowing the Leader of the Opposition access to ASIO's annual report. So partisan was the original legislation that the Parliamentary Opposition Leader- the alternative Prime Minister of this country- was not even - 
-Well, at any time the alternative Prime Minister of this country is not even to be consulted or informed on security matters, or to be given the opportunity to express an opinion on future appointments to the position of Director-General of ASIO. There has been a jettisoning of responsibility and obligation. No country in the world would put a public servant in such an onerous position at this Government proposes to do in respect of the Director-General of ASIO. I say to the Government: Shoulder that responsibility yourself. No director-general wants this onerous position. Nobody wants to be the figurehead of the curtailment of liberties. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Transport, refers to the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study. Has the delay in bringing down a report caused widespread concern in many electorates, such as Barton, Hughes, Kingsford-Smith, Grayndler and St George? Are many people concerned that property values have been adversely affected? Will the failure to resolve this matter greatly increase the cost to the Australian taxpayer of providing an additional airport? Is any end in sight to this scandalous delay? If so, when- 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Has the interdepartmental committee formed to investigate and recommend to the Government legislation or administrative changes needed to reduce the incidence of children being removed from Australia without the knowledge or against the wishes of the other parent concluded its investigations and submitted its recommendations. 
) If so, what are its recommendations. 
What action does the Government propose to take pursuant to these recommendations. 
In the event that the recommendations are not accepted, what other action does the Government propose to take. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
What developments have taken place since 20 February 1979 regarding the Government's intentions to send an Army unit of 300 men to the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Namibia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
Has he investigated claims that an Aboriginal Liaison Officer and his family were exposed to radiation in excess of internationally acceptable limits and in excess of the maximum whole body dose permitted to a member of the public under his Department 's Code of Practice on Radiation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) How many investigations in each year since 1972 were carried out by his Department to determine whether there were specific breaches of the maximum radiation dose permitted to a member of the public under his Department's Code of Practice on Radiation. 
In how many cases was the permissible level exceeded. 
3 ) What were the causes of the breaches. 
Where did the breaches take place. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Housing and Construction. In formulating the Government's welfare housing policy, what maximum proportion of a person's disposable income does the Government assume is reasonable to spend on housing? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What sums were paid for (a) hotel or other accommodation for him and his staff on official overseas trips and (b) the rent overseas of (i ) official offices and (ii ) domestic premises used by any member of his Department during the periods (A)11 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (B) 1976-77, (C) 1977-78 and(D) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
What has been the (a) average rent for defence service housing stock under the group rent scheme on a year by year basis since the scheme's inception and (b) the percentage increase from year to year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by the Department of Social Security in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
Did he or his Department consider the National Acoustic Laboratories report on the noise levels resulting from artillery firing at the Holsworthy Army Range, NSW; if so, what action is contemplated following the report. 
Did the Government accept the recommendation that firing at Holsworthy be restricted to between the hours of 1000 and 1700 (particularly in winter) in order to effect a substantial decrease in overall noise exposure in the neighbouring community; if not, what alternative action is contemplated. 
-In debating the States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill I have to say that I think the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who led for the Opposition in the debate would have the warm approval of every motorist in Australia when he made several salient points by way of the amendment which he moved on behalf of the Opposition. I will not take the time of the House to read out his amendment; it will appear in  Hansard.  He expressed concern that there has been a decline in real terms in the funds made available for road purposes in Australia. He instanced the fact that revenue from fuel taxes and levies has more than doubled and that the legislation before the House ignores the urgent necessity to accelerate road construction and maintenance programs throughout Australia. He related that factor to the economic situation; that is, the need for economic development and the like. Of course motorists know that they are being ripped off under this Government and they know that they are getting insufficient in return. That is the essence of this legislation. 
If I have time I will deal with the matter which I thought the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  raised inappropriately in the context of this legislation, namely, the whole queston of the Government's fuel policies. If ever there is an area where a Government has expressed its absolute inadequacy and failure, it is in this area of the provision, storage, conservation, refining and exploration of petrol. Under every one of those headings this Government is found wanting. The people of Australia are already suffering and they are bound to go on experiencing very great inconvenience and personal financial loss because of the bumbling and fumbling of the Government and the inadequate fuel policies which exist to this very day. I will give honourable members some information in that regard, time permitting. The purpose of this legislation is to amend the 1977 principal Act to authorise the payment to the States of extra funds for road construction and maintenance in line with price movements. There is an argument to be put about all of that. The principal Act provided for a basic grant of $475m in each of the three financial years from 1977 to 1980. 
In his second reading speech on the principal Act, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  gave the undertaking that the States had been advised of the Government's intention to maintain the basic grant to each State for 1978-79 and 1 979-80 at an amount equivalent in real terms to 1 977-78. There, of course, is the bone of contention. The Minister stated that the index factor selected by the Government was to be based on: cost movements on an annual basis in line with movements in the national accounts implicit price deflator for private investment "in other building and construction" '. 
The Labor Opposition, of course, was criticial and remains critical of the Government's use of this particular prime movement indicator. We think it is a hoax. As the Government has given an undertaking to maintain the real value of funds allocated for roads, it is more appropriate for the Government to allow increases in line with the actual price increases in road maintenance and construction. The former Bureau of Roads, an independent authority, which, incidentally, was abolished by the Fraser Government in 1977, in its 1975 report provided statistics which unequivocally illustrated that the cost of roadworks has risen at a greater rate than the index used by the Government in this legislation and higher than the rate of inflation measured by the consumer price index. Let me give some examples. From 1970 to 1975, the road price index rose by 13.6 per cent; the consumer price index rose by 4.9 per cent; and the implicit gross fixed capital expenditure deflator rose by 10.6 per cent. From 1973 to 1975, the variations are more marked still. The road price index rose by 23.3 per cent; the consumer price index rose by 1 4.8 per cent; and the implicit gross national expenditure deflator rose by 15.8 per cent. 
Road maintenance and construction costs have risen at a faster rate for a variety of reasons including price rises in bituminous products following rises in oil prices. The Bureau of Roads, in its 1975 report, summed up those increases by stating: 
Road costs increased some 62 per cent between 1971-72 and 1974-73 compared with 40 per cent in the consumer price index. 
The present position shows that road costs continue to increase at a higher rate. The Government's implicit price deflator for private investment in other building and construction rose by only 6.6 per cent in 1978-79. The Budget estimate on the rate of inflation as measured by the CPI, as all honourable members know, is over 10 per cent. Estimates of the increased cost of road maintenance and construction vary but, if the New South Wales Department of Main Roads' estimate for last year of 10 per cent is an indication, it is clear that last year's allocation did not maintain the real value of allocation for roads. With growing labour and petrol costs, it is unlikely that increased costs can be contained to less than 10 per cent for this year. 
I think the House would be interested to know the views on this matter of the official journal of the Australian Road Federation. The journal is called  Road News.  In the September 1979 edition, this independent journal was critical of the Government as I am critical of the Government. The article states: 
The 1979-80 Budget Speech disclosed that inflation for the year to June 1 979 was 8.8 per cent. 
The 1979-80 Budget Papers stated 'The Government has announced that road grants will again be maintained in real terms in 1 979-80 when $S46m, an increase of 7.5 per cent on the 1978-79 grants, will be provided'. The 1979-80 Budget Speech showed that the promise is, once again, to be broken. 
The Treasurer announced 'for 1979-80 as a whole, the CPI is presently estimated to increase by a little over 10 per cent'. 
It is a fact that over the last few years, promises and performance in the area of road funding have continued to diverge. There has been no real growth in road funds and the Government has failed to meet its pledge to 'maintain the value of these grants in real terms'. 
That, as I say, is a quotation from the official organ of the Australian Road Federation magazine  Road News.  I do not think anybody for a solitary moment would contend that that organisation and its journal are pro-Labor. It has always sought to impress itself as an impartial, neutral, factual and honest body. As the real value of Federal Government allocations under this legislation is not maintained, a cutback in much needed roadworks throughout Australia will result. Heaven knows, the condition of our roads is evidence enough for all to see. My colleague, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  has passed me a Press release by  Mr Russell  Hinze, the Queensland Minister for Main Roads, which refers to the Bruce Highway in Queensland. This is not being stated by the Labor Party; it is being said by the Queensland Minister for Main Roads. The Press release states: 
It would take 70 years to finish the Bruce Highway on present Federal Funding levels. 
The Press release goes on to state: 
Millions of dollars are wasted, lives are lost and tremendous disruption occurs every year on this section of the highway, caused by Federal Government neglect. 
-As the honourable gentleman appropriately, I think, interjects on this occasion,  Mr Hinze  can probably borrow it from the Russian bank as seems to be the trend and the fashionable inclination in Queensland at present. What a sorry state it is that that is the last resort for Australians. I just mention that one highway. There are highways all over this country, as every honourable member knows, which have been neglected and which are death traps. The Hume Highway and the Pacific Highway are glaring examples. One can look at the inadequacy of that great road going to Gosford and Newcastle. One has to weave one's way through these areas in single lanes. Highway No. 1 weaves its way through the suburbs of Newcastle. We fight our way through great traffic bottlenecks at Hornsby, in the face of total indifference by this Government. When we go down to Wollongong, we see the coal trucks running several a minute, I think, through the main streets and through the death traps of Mount Ousley. Week after week we hear of some horrendous accident in that part of the country. We bring deputations down here to the Minister for Transport and he tells the Mayor of Wollongong and his aldermen that the Commonwealth has no obligation in this matter. He passes the buck to the States. That is not good enough. 
We remember the days when a Government in which the present Minister for Transport was a Minister accepted responsibility in regard to roads that earned export income. That, of course, was in regard to the beef roads. But now that we have a new emphasis on exports in respect to coal, we find an entirely different attitude. We find the Government showing total disinterest in the needs of the great coal producing cities and towns in New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia. So I believe it is a matter of very real concern that, although the Federal Government has this obligation to increase allocations to improve roads, it has failed to do so. The Government has dramatically increased the federal tax received from motorists by its petrol pricing policy. The Government has failed to continue special road projects and assistance to the States in relation to specific roads primarily used by export industries. I have already referred to the coal industry. A number of agricultural industries, such as the beef and wheat industries, are similarly affected. The practice of declaring national commerce roads has virtually been abandoned by this Government. That is an admission by the Minister. 
The Government stands to gain in extra tax in one year alone from motorists around Australia- farmers and people living in the bush are more affected than inner city residentsalmost $3,000m. That is the amount in the great tax rip-off. Motorists will pay $2,023m tax during 1979-80 because of this Government's decision to set Australian oil prices at ruling world prices in order to achieve world parity, as it has been described. This is 70 per cent more than was taken from the Australian motorist last year. When coupled with the crude oil levy it represents 1 1 per cent of the tax collections. It is no wonder that the price of petrol at the present time has reached $1.30 a gallon on average throughout Australia. 
This rise, due to specific government policy to set Australian crude oil at world prices has pushed the cost of petrol to levels that we never thought were possible just a short time ago. The Federal Government takes 42c of every dollar paid by Australian motorists. The other beneficiaries are the major oil companies, refineries, and wholesalers, who together receive 33c. The oil producing countries receive11.5c and service stations13.5c. So everyone is having a go at the poor old Australian motorist. But it is this Government which is doing it unfairly and unnecessarily and is giving the green light for others to have a go as well. 
-Well, I will tell you what my policy is, firstly in respect of the matter to which I have referred. The Federal Government should be obliged to return to the States a greater amount based on the sums taken from motorists. There does not seem to be any ambiguity about that. That is where we stand. That is an aspect of the official policy of the Labor Opposition. By this legislation the State of New South Wales is to receive just under $1 77m. The Federal Government's share of the New South Wales motorists' petrol dollar is estimated at $675m. In other words in one year the Commonwealth takes in petrol tax from New South Wales motorists $498m more than it returns. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has been very loquacious in interjecting throughout this debate and my contribution to it. Does he regard that as a fair proposition? The figures that I have just mentioned are typical of the situation prevailing throughout Australia. I will repeat those figures. In one year the Commonwealth takes from New South Wales motorists $498m in petrol tax more than it returns in terms of assistance in maintaining and improving roads, or improving safety on roads throughout that State. In the years prior to and including1978 the return to New South Wales has dropped from 60 per cent to 38 per cent. This year's allocation to be authorised by this Bill has further reduced the percentage return to 26 per cent. 
It has to be said that the New South Wales Government has kept its allocations above the minimum amounts required by Commonwealth legislation. Last year approximately $300m was allocated by New South Wales for road programs. That was $ 136m more than the Commonwealth, which takes an enormous tax bite from the motorists, as I have already described to the House. The Commonwealth also has an obligation to maintain roads essentially used for export purposes. This constitutional obligation gave rise to special funds being allocated in the 1950s and 1960s and I cannot see any reason why this Government, of the same political persuasion of governments in those times, has suddenly seen fit to change its attitude about this matter. 
If we take the period of 1971-72, when the Liberal-Country Party was in office, $ 10.1 m was allocated when beef exports were valued at $389.3m and represented 7.96 per cent of total Australian exports. When it comes to specific allocations for roads used by the coal industrythat is an industry that I represent as my electorate stretches right down through those well known coal mining areas of Bulli, Corrimal, Helensburgh to within a few miles from Wollongong- I just have to make the point that a far more realistic attitude is necessary from this Government in regard to providing assistance for those areas that are so adversely affected by the damage caused to roads by coal trucks. It is not good enough for this Government to ignore that problem, as it has been doing for solong. In general, the Government must stand indicted and condemned because all the figures show that proper priority is not given to the need to improve Australian roads. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
What action has the Government taken or does it propose to take to devise adequate procedures to ensure that the Uranium Advisory Council is fully informed on all relevant matters pertaining to its functions as expressed in its terms of reference. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) What indicators, both economic and technical, will be used to determine the operating life of the existing nuclear reactor at Lucas Heights, N.S.W. 
What is the rate of increase in repair and maintenance and reduction in operating efficiency expected to occur within the next 10 years with respect to the existing Lucas Heights reactor. 
What is involved technically, economically and environmentally in the decommissioning of the existing reactor at Lucas Heights. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Has the Government received the report from the interdepartmental committee inquiring into the condition of accommodation for servicemen and women which was to further examine the ready availability of private rental housing to meet the needs of married servicemen and the viability of a new housing allowance concession scheme as a replacement for the existing scheme; if so (a) when was the report received, (b) what were the findings and recommendations of the committee and (c) which of the recommendations have been (i) accepted and (ii) rejected; if not, when is it expected to be received and what has been the cause of the delay. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a minute, reference GAC: FRB, signed by  Mr G.  A. Creef, Manager HIFAR Operations Section, Australian Atomic Energy Research Establishment. Lucas Heights, N.S.W., dated 25 May 1979, to sub-section leaders relating to security arrangements at the Establishment  (Hansard,  5 June 1979, page 2950)? 
Has the Government investigated claims that Japanese anti-nuclear activists are training local anti-nuclear activists in Australia: if so, (a) what is the nature of the alleged security threat?, (b) how many Japanese anti-nuclear activists are suspected of being in Australia?, (c) how and when did they arrive?, (d) is there evidence that they are training local activists or anti-nuclear groups to use nonlegitimate methods to express their anti-nuclear activity: if so, what are these methods? and (e) what is the nature of security arrangements taken to counter this alleged threat for the purpose of protecting (i) employees at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and (ii) residents living in close proximity to the Commission at Lucas Heights. 
How many persons have been placed under surveillance (a) in order to determine the validity of the alleged threat and ( b ) as a result of the investigations. 
For what period have persons been placed under surveillance because of the investigations. 
Does the Government consider that (a) residents who have expressed legitimate concern about the siting of the Research Establishment and the levels of radioactive discharges in the atmosphere and in the Woronora River (b) all or any Australian opponent to the nuclear industry, and (c) opponents to the Government's decision to mine uranium, pose serious threats to Australian security. 
Does the Government have the right to place any opponents under surveillance at any particular time whenever allegations of security risks are made relating to the operations of the Commission, mining of uranium and the nuclear industry. 
What action is available to individuals who suspect their privacy and civil rights have been infringed and who wish to protect themselves from this infringement 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a number of patients living in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth regions requiring specialist medical treatment or services are unable to obtain those services in the city in which they reside. 
If so, will he extend the assistance granted under the Isolated Patients' Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme so that needy patients from those cities are not excluded solely on the grounds of their residence. 
If assistance is not to be extended, what alternative measures does the Government propose to take to assist patients who live in the excluded capital cities to obtain specialist medical treatment or services which are not obtainable in their own city. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
What areas in Australia are being considered by the Government as national repositories of radio active waste. 
I would be the last one to disparage the enduring interest that the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  exhibits on matters of this kind. I have been involved with him in efforts in this area. But from what I have heard tonight, the honourable member would be a good candidate, if we were looking for one from the Government, to support the Opposition in the amendment that has been moved. It is not an overreaction, it is a sensible amendment to move and it is very much in compliance with the terms of his own speech. There has been no increase in any of the provisions under this legislation since it was first introduced in 1974. It is reasonable to assert that there should be an updating of those provisions. Regrettably, the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill does not do anything like that. It does nothing more than remove the time limits on the major grants under this Homeless Persons Assistance Act 1974. 
A range of grants has been spelt out already. There is an urgent and increasing need for additional assistance for the expanding army of homeless people of Australia. Once we used to think of them as old swaggies and derelict old men, but now the army has taken on a different type of characteristic. It now involves a large number of young people. Sometimes they are young people who have fallen out of favour or an effective relationship with their affluent families. Sometimes they are just young people who cannot get started in the modern, technological world. If there has not been sympathy for homeless people before, there could well be reason for people to generate such sympathy in the future. 
The principal Act, of course, is very laudable in all its objectives. It is one of the surviving initiatives of the Whitlam Government. It survived the unrelenting vendetta of the Fraser Government which has taken the form of a devolution program aimed at destroying the Australian Labor Party social reforms. Of course, this whole area of homeless people is taking on such dimensions that although it was contemplated to put those original initiatives into the incinerator with the introduction of the devolution program, the Government dare not do that now because it would be criticised on many fronts. It is interesting to look briefly at the history of this matter. Following a working party on homeless men and women set up by Bill Hayden in February 1973, which reported later in the year on the feasibility of a program to assist them, legislation was foreshadowed by the then Prime Minister in the 1974 election campaign and introduced by  Mr Hayden  in November 1974. Grants were made available to organisations for existing and new hostels, day attendance centres, detoxification clinics and work centres. They would cover rent, furnishings and equipment with subsidies for welfare staff members and a subsidised meal allowance. The then Minister for Social Security, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in his second reading speech said: 
The measures proposed within the Bill are based on a compassionate understanding of the needs and very real problems of homeless men and women and of their alienation, their loneliness and their despair . . . Our Government is determined to end such areas of neglect. 
The speech from which that quotation is extracted was made on 27 November 1974. In fairness, I must say that it brought a reasonable response from the spokesman for social security at the time- it was Don Chipp as a matter of fact- who said- I quote him word for word: 
At least he has made a start. We did not for 23 years ... I commend the Government for this humanitarian piece of legislation. 

 Mr Chipp, now a  Senator, is  leader of the Australian Democrats- 
-He was a Liberal member. This was before his defection from the Liberal Party. I suppose that was one of the reasons why he defected; he was out of step on matters of this kind. He said those words on 3 December 1974. I must try to cut back my remarks because a number of people would like to share the limited speaking time. The main provisions of the principal Act which the Labor Government initiated were to support organisations and agencies catering for homeless men and women. It has been mentioned by the two preceding speakers that this Bill is about a salary subsidy of 50 per cent of the salary of approved staff, an accommodation subsidy of 75c a person a day and a meal subsidy of 25c a meal in respect of a non-resident homeless person. It is probably sufficient to say that none of these subsidies has been altered or increased since the last Labor Budget in 1975. Obviously, the Government is remiss about that. Any fair person would contend that. I am sure that the honourable member for Perth was making points to that effect. That is why the Opposition has moved this amendment which is in simple terms. I will read it to the House. It is reasonable. It says in part: 
. the House is of opinion that the payment of 75c per day for accommodation and 25c per meal paid to those who provide assistance to homeless persons should be increased to a more reasonable level- 
Obviously, we should take into account the cost of living increase that has risen in that time. I am trying to put a reasonable case. The present allowance is 25c for a meal. Half a hamburger could not be bought for that amount now. It would be a hamburger without the meat. It is a laughable proposition. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  who is sitting at the table ought to take that on board and recognise that he is out of step with the rest of the country. Anyone who takes an interest in these things would know that the Government is not fair dinkum. It has failed to upgrade or update these figures to sensible and reasonable levels. The Government members can make all the laudable speeches that they like about the Salvation Army people, the St Vincent de Paul Society people and others who go around the slums of Sydney, Melbourne and Perth looking after the derelicts in the streets. All those laudable comments do not count anywhere near as much as giving the societies and charitable organisations the wherewithal to get on with the job. 
The primary thing is to keep these homeless persons alive on more than half a hamburger, which is the policy of this Government at the present time. 
-The honourable member is out of his seat to start with. My colleague, the honourable member for Wills, has a great involvement in this matter. I do not think that anyone could quell his enthusiasm regardless of where he sat at any time. When the program was approved by the Labor Cabinet in 1974 it was expected to cost about $20. 15m, including $ 14.5m in capital expenditure over the three-year period. In 1975-76- the year of the Hayden Budget-$4.4m was allocated. But the Fraser Government has cut the allocation harshly and in the two financial years from 1975 to 1977 has spent only $3.8m altogether. The funding goes on from there. In 1977-78 the actual expenditure was $2.7m; in 1978-79 it was $2. 8m; and this year the Budget allocation has jumped to $5.6m. Even if the Government spends the Budget allocation it will have contributed only about two-thirds of the resources intended when the scheme was launched by the Labor Party. 
One of my complaints is that there has been vacillation and uncertainty about the program. This Bill is simply extending the period. The agencies and the organisations dependent on this legislation have been disadvantaged. They have been destabilised. I think that we have slowed momentum by failing to make the position clear at an earlier time. The Government has been carried away by budgetary constraints and so on, by this philosophy that it incessantly imbues and indoctrinates into the Australian community. It has no regard for priorities, even the most humane priorities. It has vacillated right up to this time about telling these agencies and organisations that are right in the frontline of the greatest devastation we can see in our own country. It is the closest thing to a Kampuchean situation that we are experiencing. It is the closest thing to a Timorese situation in Australia. The Government has vacillated right up until now and has slowed down the organisations, has caused them to lose their momentum. That, I think, is a great shame. It is a reflection on the Government. It is not a thing we want to score about politically. It is a damned shame that it has been allowed to happen. 
This Bill, as innocuous as it is, represents a green light that this scheme is going to go on in the future even though no money is involved in its passage. The message should have come through earlier because many of us have been inundated with expressions of concern by organisations in many States. I have correspondence here, to and from the Minister, on behalf of the organisations. I know that if they had been aware that the Government was going to carry on with this scheme they would have had their plans prepared for other buildings and all sorts of other things. An internal report within the Department of Social Security some time ago stated, in part: 
The trouble with homeless people, regarded as a group, is not that they are defective or homeless, but that they are poor, sick, defenceless and lacking in self-esteem. 
The same report went on to give an account of these people. It stated: 
The average age of the homeless men is about 46 years, and their life expectancy far lower than the average. Their level of schooling is lower than the average, and the proportion of the sample investigated by the Poverty Commission who never attended school is almost three times as great as that of the male population in New South Wales. 
These are incredible revelations. The document continues: 
One in live had been homeless for more than 10 years, and almost one in ten had been homeless for more than 1 5 years. They have a far higher rate of diagnosed illnesses than workers of an equivalent age. Epilepsy and veneral disease were 10 times as high; bronchial and liver diseases were at least three times as high; breakdowns were four times as common; and back injury, twice as common, was consistent with the level of physical injury and occupational hazards expected in a group of poor, unskilled workers. 
That kind of information is available in great quantity and volume at present. The Government's great obsession is to protect the taxpayer, which is a fair enough proposition. But if it thinks it is going to win more votes by requiring people to exercise less conscience about their fellow man, if it wants them to be their brother's keepers to a diminishing degree in the future than has been the case in the past, it is operating in a fool's paradise if it thinks it can do this on the cheap to the advantage of the taxpayer. The Government has to tackle these fundamental problems and start looking at the whole man, not just his accommodation. While this program must continue, there should be less emphasis simply on beds and meals, important enough as they are. I suppose they are primary resources in the circumstances. But there ought to be greater emphasis on attention to health problems, and even on legal injustices, which often drive these people into this kind of circumstance, and civil liberties. Certainly there should be a new range of conditions laid down about the operation of homeless men's institutions and doss houses about which there have been scandals from time to time. Honourable members will remember the headlines about slave conditions in Queensland. Some people have exploited this unfortunate group of people. 
I did not mean to go on as long as I have on this matter. However, a restricted document compiled by the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development, Directorate for Social Affairs, Manpower and Education was referred to in the  Financial Review  just a few days ago. It contended that Australia's youth unemployment problem is at least the third worst among OECD countries. The article said: 
Of 15 OECD countries Australia last year and early this year had the third worst youth unemployment rate. Only Finland and Spain showed higher rates. And of eight OECD countries surveyed on the duration of youth unemployment Australia was by far the highest. 
The article continued: 
Other countries in this comparative group included the US, the UK, France, Canada and Sweden. 
The comparisons and predictions of higher youth unemployment in the 1 980s are contained in a restricted document compiled by the OECD's Directorate for Social Affairs, Manpower and Education. 
Honourable members can see this article for themselves. It is very revealing indeed. It must be frightening to parents to recognise the extent to which the number of homeless persons is going to be aggravated by young people who are affected by the unavailability of employment. The article in the  Financial Review  continued: 
The documentation included in the study showed that between 1965 and the first quarter this year Australia experienced the highest growth in youth unemployment of 15 OECD countries. 
Through 1978 Australia's youth unemployment (unemployed aged between 15 and 24 as a per cent of the total labour force between those ages) ran between 11.1 per cent and 1 5.2 per cent. 
The article goes on to indicate how much worse that is than is the case in other countries and how much worse it will become in the future. It indicates beyond doubt that we have to give a lot more attention to these matters. 
I have before me tonight an account of the activities of the Smith Family, the Salvation Army and the St Vincent De Paul Society in terms of all the meals they serve, how many people they accommodate and so on. I do not have time to do anything more than make a cursory mention of the work of one of those organisations. The St Vincent De Paul Society estimates the number of homeless people at between 8,000 and 10,000. According to the national report 1978-79, the increased demand on services provided can be estimated by the following for the 10-year period 1968 to 1978: Persons assisted, that is given food, cash or accommodation, have risen from 218,000, in round figures, in 1968 to 708,000 in 1978. This represents a 224 per cent increase. Assistance to families increased in round figures from 45,000 people assisted in 1968 to 259,000 people assisted in 1978. In money terms in 1968 $430,000 was provided. That amount increased to $ 1,500m in 1978. This was the amount spent on food vouchers, fares and assistance to homeless persons. 
If one looks at newspaper cuttings from the Parliamentary Library indicating the extent of devastation of homeless people, especially in respect of the emerging homeless group- the young people in every State in Australia- one can say only that this legislation, as timely as it is and as wanted as it has been, is inadequate in that it does not give sufficient priority to these people. It exhibits the indifference which this Government has displayed for far too long about a growing cancer in our community. There would be something wrong with all Australians if we allowed this very seriously deteriorating problem to go as unattended in the future as it has been in the lifetime of the Fraser Government. 
-When the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  in his capacity as shadow Minister Tor Transport yesterday asked a question of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about the possibility that the present  Chairman  of the board.of directors of Qantas Airways Ltd might not be reappointed, I was surprised to note the ambiguous nature of the Minister's reply.  Sir Lenox  Hewitt is one of Australia's outstanding public servants. He is a very great administrator and a great protector of the Australian aviation industry. The fact of the matter is that there have been disclosures to the effect that a back bench committee has commenced a conspiracy. I am saying that there is a contention that this committee has decided to develop a conspiracy designed to have  Sir Lenox  Hewitt replaced as  Chairman  of Qantas. It is undoubtedly a fact that there are people in this Parliament and out of this Parliament who, as upholders of an open sky policy and of a private and free enterprise system, would be prepared to jettison Qantas and all the great benefits that accrue to Australians as a result of its successful operation. 
I believe that we ought to have regard to the fact that  Sir Lenox  Hewitt has been upholding a policy of attaining cheap air fares subject to sustaining the highest level of service, safety and employment in the Australian aviation industry. It is important to make sure that that policy continues. I hope that the Minister will repudiate these people who are pursuing this vendetta against  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. I hope that he will give an assurance that no change in the administration of Qantas will occur which will put any of the policies of  Sir Lenox  Hewitt at risk, because if that happens there will be dire consequences for the air travelling public in this country. 
I remind the House of the outstanding service given by  Sir Lenox.  He has been  Chairman  of Qantas since 1975 and his term is due to expire next year. He is 63 years of age, and he wants to be reappointed. It is significant that the insidious attack started to emerge when he was leading Australia in its talks with the five Asian nations that were seeking access to the Sydney-London air route. There is no doubt that those Asian nations have some entitlement but it is most inappropriate that the position, status and standing of  Sir Lenox  should be undermined at that time. This man has been a senior public servant since 1955. He has been  deputy  secretary of many departments. I cannot take the time to mention them all. To mention some salient positions, he was  chairman  of the Australian Universities Commission, Secretary to the Prime Minister's Department, Secretary to the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, a member of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission,  Chairman  of the Snowy Mountains Council, and Secretary to the Department of Minerals and Energy. As I mentioned, his current position is one of very great achievement and distinction. 
Only this week we have heard of the operational profits of Qantas. I think all Australians are proud of this institution and are very concerned that there are Liberal members in this Parliament, apparently in a committee of a conspiratorial nature, seeking to undermine a man doing a great service. I hope that the Minister will come clean in the near future. I am attempting to flush out the opponents so that we can see the insidious nature of their objectives. They are upholding people from overseas who do not give a damn about what happens to Australians employed in Australia's own airways industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of reports that drugs are illegally entering Australia through an airstrip on the northern island of the  Sir Edward  Pellew group of islands in the Northern Territory? Is this airstrip without effective radar cover to enable detection of light aircraft and without facilities for recording details of cargo? Has the Minister initiated any action to close off this area to drug traffickers? 
-The whole issue of immigration is one which has some accord politically and, indeed, throughout Australia at the present time. I am not sure that this was always the case. I suppose we can say now that there is something like a unity ticket in evidence. 
-It is a lovely bit of terminology. 
-The honourable member may have a little to learn about the term. 
-He may have a little to learn about the setting in which I make that comment. It is very much in character with the founder of our immigration policy,, the late Arthur Calwell. I think all parliamentarians with any knowledge and experience about these things will concede that he was very forward looking when, as Labor Minister for Immigration, he initiated this program. I recall that a former member for Parkes, the late Leslie Haylen, was sent as an emissary overseas to charter the first ships to bring the migrants here. The unity ticket now, having had that creative work done way back in the early post-war years, is to give effect to the spirit of immigration and to make the passage and pathway for our migrant people more easy or reasonable. 
Mention has been made of the success of the program for which governments of both political complexions can take credit. It is an enormous phenomenon of our time that three and a half million people from 100 countries have come to our country, as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has said. Forty per cent of those 3.5 million migrants in the postwar intake are of English origin. This does not detract from the fact that there have been many problems and there are still many problems to be ironed out. I think we are achieving social harmony. I sincerely hope that this measure will contribute to an even greater attainment in that respect. All of us speak at citizenship ceremonies and make mention of the fact that migrants have come to enrich our lives, that some of our own traditional behaviour patterns have become subjective and that the finer qualities often tend to emerge dominative. I suppose that is more apparently the case in the culinary area than in some other areas. We love migrant food. We go to the Chinese and Hungarian restaurants and do things of that kind. 
For the sake of succinctness which I will obviously have to develop in view of the time, it might be convenient for me just to make some mention of the purposes of this legislation as summarised by the excellent Parliamentary Library digest service. It makes reference to the fact that the Galbally report commissioned by the Government in 1977 was virtually the instigator of this Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs. I quote from the digest: 
The report pointed out the need for skilled research and information on experience in other countries to assist in the development of multiculturalism in Australia. The report also recommended that the Commonwealth provide $1.8m over a three-year period to establish an Institute of Multicultural Affairs to provide advice and information on multiculturalism. 
That puts the position in a nutshell. Now there is to be a Council of the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs. I know that not everybody can see the potential of this. In fact, I have had representations of a cynical nature contending that the Government is using this process to curry favor with the migrant community. I suppose that if honourable members look at this proposal to establish a council of up to 100 members, they can easily see that it could become such a vehicle. In fact, there has been criticism about the old advisory groups that used to meet and the big beanoes that were held in Canberra by large numbers of migrant people over the years. The contention has been made that that was also used to give people a few days in Canberra at the Government's expense. Whether or not that is cynical only the beholders and the initiators of the scheme are in a position to say. It is fair to contend also that there is an antipathy to the proliferation of boards and things governmental in the community. We are talking about $1.8m to set this Institute up over a three-year period. That is certainly not the end of the section financially by any means. We would be setting up something that would be very hard to stop. It will have a very enduring characteristic about it. We might be talking of hundreds of millions of dollars over a period of several decades. So this is very significant legislation indeed. 
Clause 6 of the Bill indicates the primary functions of the Institute. The emphasis is on integration, not assimilation and that is important. That means that we are going to identify and provide for a situation which will facilitate the preservation of the ethnic cultures. As such, that emphasis should be supported. For many years the concept of a multicultural society has been bandied about, but in point of fact very few people know what is entailed in this concept. I do not profess to know myself. I do not suppose we will know what this thing is about until it is in operation. The Institute itself will have the task of determining multiculturalism in Australia, and certainly, to a large extent its own role. The Government takes the view and intends that the Institute adopt a practical educational and action oriented approach. It therefore has the task of analysing and disseminating information on ethnic cultures and backgrounds. The Government hopes that the Institute will come to be regarded as a national resource centre on the cultural background of Australia 's migrant people. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who is the shadow spokesman on these matters has indicated the nature of a complex amendment which he moved at the second reading stage of the Bill. Of course that is already incorporated in  Hansard.  We intended in the Committee stage to move a number of amendments to give effect to his second reading amendment. To save time I will ask approval of the Minister to incorporate the Committee amendments in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

1 ) Clause 3, page 1, line 9, at the end of the definition of "appoint" add "unless otherwise stated". 
In my view Wollongong should be considered as a possible location for the proposed Institute's headquarters. It is a great and successful multicultural city. Migrants and Australian born are engaged together in the great steel industries of Australia, at Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd,' Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd and other works. Together the non-indigenous ethnic groups are probably in higher proportion in Wollongong than in any comparable part of Australia. There are many serious problems concerning migrants in that city. These problems are in the area of housing, education and very serious unemployment. In Wollongong there is great fulfilment on the one hand and despair and degradation on the other. It is an atmosphere of multi-cultural reality. I think that is what is needed in respect of this proposed Institute. 
It is in Wollongong and a few other places like it in Australia that practitioners in ethnic affairs can demonstrate their skills and capacities. It is in Wollongong that the ethnic communities can make their voices heard. If the proposed Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs is to go to the rarefied atmosphere of Canberra, then important components of its activities should, in my view, go to Wollongong or some other substantial multi-cultural community where the Institute could be encouraged to keep its academic and intellectual feet on the ground. I issue a word of warning to the Minister and to the Government that there can easily be a tendency to take this whole issue into an area of unreality. I believe that it will be very important to look at what has already been done and to link into those things. There can be no better example than the activities initiated by the Wollongong University. Once again I ask the Minister to consider the possibility of giving this proposed institute a realistic base such as could be made available in the Wollongong University setting. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) Were the Government reports on (a) radiation levels at Narbalek and (b) changes in Government policies relating to foreign investment in uranium projects announced in June relating to the Yeelirrie project in Western Australia referred to the Uranium Advisory Council; if not, why not. 
What action is proposed to ensure that the Uranium Advisory Council is placed in a position to advise the Government before decisions are made. 
-In this calm, temperate and rational atmosphere I would like to contribute to this debate on the Home Savings Grants Scheme. I take the opportunity of saying that it is always good to listen to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  because he is one of the few Government members who endeavour to participate in housing debates of any kind. I have never felt that he has mastered the subject, but if the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  is his mentor that is perfectly understandable. The homes savings grant legislation had its genesis in 1964; 15 long years ago. It represents the only housing idea that has come out of the Government in decades. That is in contrast to the position that prevailed from 1972 to 1975 when there were a mass of new initiatives. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has pointed out, regardless of what has been put by the honourable member for Mitchell, the people outside are not convinced that housing is coming easy to them. The honourable member for Mitchell has been seeking to convey the impression that this Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill is a panacea to all the Government's housing problems. 
But if honourable members got out into their electorates and asked the people the extent to which the Scheme is fulfilling their dreams they will point out that it is of little consequence. From the time that this Scheme was first introduced in 1964 there has been a contention to the effect that whereas some people benefited from grants because of their savings that attracted those grants- I am not sure whether the original grants were $500 or $750- housing costs for everybody rose to a like extent. The home seeking community did not necessarily derive any benefit. I see this sole bit of housing legislation as an edifice to indifference. I have seen the policy statements of some years standing. They were to the effect that the Liberal-National Country Party Coalition in the Federal area did not accept that it had any constitutional prerogative in or responsibility for housing; that it was a matter for the States. All the things that the Government has not done bear testimony to that situation. It is important that details of this legislation and the operation of the Home Savings Grants Scheme be itemised. The Scheme represents the only direct Commonwealth initiative to assist Australians to obtain their own homes or to be adequately housed. 
From time to time we hear facetious comments that the Labor Opposition is not interested in home ownership. The fact is that we achieved the highest level of home ownership in the country's history when the Labor Party was last in government. Of course maximum home ownership is still our aim. The record of the Fraser Government in housing has been destructive and marked by failure. For example the Australian Housing Corporation, which was established by the Labor Government to provide assistance to home owners to reduce the cost of land and housing in Australia, has been abolished. Then there was the much vaunted Government Housing Allowance Voucher Scheme, called HAV which was going to be a partner to this Home Savings Grants Scheme and which was going to break down the barriers to home ownership. It was intended to assist people particularly with rental accommodation. This has been abandoned. In the August 1977 Budget I think about $lm was allocated for this failure. Tax deductibility for home mortgate interest payments has been sabotaged but not eliminated altogether. It used to be generally applicable to everybody. Now it is available to people only in the first five years of paying off their first homes. 
There has been a reduction in the sums available to the States and the Northern Territory under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Budget advances for 1979-80 are estimated to fall below the sum allocated last year by over $150m. In real terms the purchasing power lost is far greater, as this figure does not take into account the effects of inflation. 
The Government has announced also its intention to sell the assets and business of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, not because it is failing but for the simple reason that it is an outstanding success. This means that home owners will lose the freedom to choose to be insured by a successful government-owned insurance corporation which is required to charge the lowest possible premium rates, having regard to the need to secure sufficient revenue to meet expenditure to pay the Commonwealth a reasonable return on capital. There ought to be some debate about that because it links into this matter. That was another process by which home owners could be assisted. That insurance corporation was making a considerable profit. The last Labor Government had objectives about putting that profit to work. In 1978-79 the Corporation had 52,000 loans insured for about $ 1,400m. Its market share of the business was over 60 per cent. 
There are so many other things that one could refer to. There has been a negative attitude which leaves this Home Savings Grants Scheme standing in splendid isolation. We have abandoned the Australian Government's estate development and construction activities, which were designed to provide at minimum cost land and housing for welfare purposes. I refer especially to those activities which prevailed under the Defence Service Homes Scheme. We are now in the process of selling off the land that was acquired at bargain prices. 
Let me say that this legislation has been plagued by antipathy and controversy and by hardship on the part of the applicants ever since it was introduced in 1964. There are several members in the chamber who could probably recall its genesis. It was introduced, of course, when  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister. He was always a percentage man. He thought of elections in terms of how he could pick up a couple of per cent of the votes here and a couple of per cent of votes there. The science grant legislation was a case in point. Another case in point concerning gimmicks and picking up percentage votes was this Home Savings Grants Scheme. He saw this as having some electoral appeal at' that time. I suppose it did, but it has been plagued by great difficulties. A series of amendments have been made. It has been patched up along the line. 
We used to have a valuation limit, I think of about $22,500. There has always been this raging controversy about valuation limits. An army of bureaucrats has gone out and put values on the improvements that home owners or home builders have sought to effect to their carport and things of that nature. It has considered whether the air-conditioning or the heating system should be taken into account, whether the  Venetian  blinds or the things that hold up the curtains would put the applicants over the limit or just under the limit to enable them to receive the benefit. That is a most pedantic operation for a Commonwealth Government to be involved in. 
Then there was this problem about having savings in the prescribed form for three years. Savings had to be in specially approved accounts. Not everybody devotes his life to the study of these matters. Thousands and thousands of applicants have been destined for ultimate disappointment in discovering that their assets were in the wrong account. They had to be put in the prescribed account. Of course, it takes some years for a comprehension about these things to develop across the board in the community. Sensibly enough some young people such as successful business people and even some parliamentarians, have chosen to put their money in cheque accounts, but no, that is no good. We found that hundreds, if not thousands, of applicants foundered on that very point, that miserable technicality. 
A three-year residential requirement plagued the legislation for years. It particularly affected migrants, who desperately needed a house. They did not have an extended family to accommodate them. They lived in migrant hostels before graduating to boarding houses and places of that kind. Probably the most deserving people in this community, those who came from war-torn countries, were unable to get a home savings grant because they could not meet the three-year residential requirement. 
Then we had the age barrier of 36 years. The anomalies that used to loom up with great frequency in this respect were absolutely staggering. Servicemen, who by virtue of their occupations were moved around the country and given Service accommodation, suddenly came out of Service as a major or a captain just over the prescribed age limit of 36 years. They had never had a home before in their lives. The first time they had a chance to settle down they were unable to qualify because they were over 36 years of age. I recall that there was a high incidence of school teachers in that same difficult dilemma. 
Housing Commission tenants were unable to qualify for a long period. People who were making application in respect of a home other than their first home constituted another substantial category deprived of benefits under the Home Savings Grants Scheme because they had had some tinpot fishing shack somewhere- a weekender, one might call it or a glorified caravan on a piece of land. So it went on. 
I know that one of the anomalies that prevailed for a considerable time affected widows. They were not eligible. Their husbands could be killed in an industrial accident and the first thing they would want to do would be to secure their home, to get the compensation that came from their late husband's death and apply it to the acquisition of a home. But because they were widows they were unable to derive any benefit. So the patching up of this messy, badly conceived legislation goes on and on. Of course, there are waves of victims left behind who have been deprived of benefit, never to qualify. 
If we look very carefully at the matter we find that one of the things that is primarily wrong with the concept is that the Government is very concerned about assisting people who have the proven capacity to save substantially. All the expenditure in this world under this legislation, whether it runs to the $ 19m or so of last year or the much larger amount of about $70m this year, will not solve the problems for many people. The Government is giving the benefit to people who have the capacity to save and is cutting down on the housing programs that are designed to assist people who do not have the capacity to save. In that respect, I refer particularly to the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, which is designed to finance public housing authorities around Australia. Other anomalies, of course, are such issues as how bona fide and genuine are the savings that are referred to. It helps a lot in matters of this kind if one is the son or daughter of a wealthy grazier in an electorate such as Darling Downs. 
-The honourable member for Darling Downs represents an area where there are many wealthy people- I suppose some of them could be described as indulgent parents- who would be prepared to facilitate transfers from one bank account to another to keep the maximum amount of savings coming into the bank account of their son or daughter so as to attract the maximum benefit under the 
Home Savings Grants Scheme. Does that represent any high principle? I rather think that that is a matter that should cause very widespread concern. As I have said on previous occasions, in giving money to people, this Government does not care whether they need it or not. Obviously, this is the situation under this legislation. There are many people qualifying for the maximum home savings grant who do not need this money for housing purposes. They are affluent or are assisted by parents and they can do what they like with this money. They can take a holiday, or, if they like, trip around from Bali to Bangkok, from Suva to Shangri La or from Rangoon to the Riviera. The can buy themselves a mink coat or a Mercedes. Is this what a priority housing assistance program ought to be about? 
I think the Government still has a long way to go to cull this program so that the most needy people in the community benefit. The situation is that, to obtain the full loan of $2,000, one needs to be able to accumulate savings of $6,000 over three years, that is, one needs to be able to save $2,000 a year. All of us here- in fairness I say even honourable members sitting opposite mewould know that most people cannot effect savings of that kind. Why, $2,000 a year is 1 7 per cent of gross average weekly earnings. A saving of $38.46 a week is necessary if one is to qualify under this legislation. Frankly, I think that there are many deserving people who are unable to meet that requirement. The Bill provides that, as from 24 May 1979, a grant is not payable if the value of the home, including the land, exceeds $40,000. In other words, a value limit is introduced on homes on which grants are available under the scheme. The Bill also provides that the full grant is payable only if the value of the home is less than $35,000. Where the value of the home is between $35,000 and $40,000, the grant will be reduced progressively as the value increases. The Bill permits variation of these limits by regulation. The existing restrictions remain in force. Grants at a rate of $ 1 for each $3 saved are payable- only in respect of the first home- to eligible applicants who have savings in an acceptable form from January 1976. The maximum grant is $2,000 in respect of that three years savings. Last year, the Government deliberately allocated only $20m for this scheme. It knew at that time that the amount was far too little. As a result, applicants have had to wait nine months to receive their grant. At 30 June 1979, there were some 33,781 applications approved but awaiting payment until further funds became available. The August Budget provided $75m for the home savings grants program for this financial year. However, as the Budget Papers disclose, it is not anticipated that the waiting period of nine months between approval and payment of the grants will diminish. Thus, even with the limitations of the scheme, the Government has not been prepared to, provide the funds required to assist first home applicants at the time when they require the money to pay for their home. In any event, there are many other points to be made. There are many parts of Australia where applicants are excluded because of the valuation limits. One simply cannot buy a home and a block of land for the kind of money that is mentioned. In my own electorate, some 20 miles south of Sydney, in the Engadine and Menai areas, one would be very pleased to find a quarter acre block of land for $25,000. Of course, any block with status value or a view would cost more again. Those is such areas are supposed to be the industrious people but, by virtue of this Government's approach to this housing schemozzle, they will be disinfranchised from the only initiative, the only concept, the only idea that the Government has about assisting the home-hungry people of this country. 
in reply-The legislation is in very simple terms. It is basically and primarily a matter of winding up the Home Savings Grant Act, which has never been regarded as an Act of high principle by the present Government and was not regarded as such over the years that the present Government was in Opposition. 
The Labor Minister for Housing and Construction was winding up a scheme which, as I said, has brought housing within the reach of 127,461 people. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  in a most excellently delivered speech, superb in tone, itemised the problems and hit on the kernel of the matter. He said that most of these people are young people. I am delighted with the statistics that he gave. I will repeat them. Young people in the 21 to 25 age bracket constituted 34. 1 per cent of those making application for the grant. For those in a little older age bracket, 26 to 30- it is a long time since the honourable member for Hughes has been 30; he cannot even remember something that happened two or three years ago- the figure was 32.6 per cent. In the age group 31 to 40 it was 2 1.5 per cent. I want to build on the excellent arguments advanced by my colleague, the honourable member for Mitchell who has shown a continuing and absorbing interest in matters relative to housing. He said that people who were contemplating marriage constituted 1 1.8 per cent of applications. We find that for those in the first year of their married life, that wonderful year, the figure was 1 8.3 per cent. One year after that the figure was 15.2 percent. 
All of these things are of tremendous importance. They indicate the philosophy behind the Government's action and the interest and the determination of the present Minister to ensure that adequate sums of money are made available to meet these demands of the young people. How well the Minister has tailored the available funds to meet the demand. Let us look at homes in the price bracket from $25,000 to $35,000. In Queensland, 53.8 per cent of the applications fit into that range. The scheme was introduced to help the ordinary people. It was not introduced to help the rich people who live in the suburbs where houses cost $100,000 but the ordinary people, the people who want to buy homes ranging from $25,000 to $35,000. In Queensland, 31.7 per cent of applications were in respect of houses in the price bracket from $30,000 to $40,000. 
It is interesting to note that the cost of housing has not shown the substantial increase that some of the previous speakers from the Opposition have endeavoured to indicate. From 1975 to 1977 the cost of a home of average size has gone up about $6,500. It is interesting to note the record of the increases. Materials represent the main cost in building a home. The price index of materials used in home building on a mix of so much cement, so much timber, nails and iron and so on showed an increase in 1976-77 of 1 1.9 per cent. That was at a time when the Government had not quite overcome the serious inroads of inflation and the enormous demands on costs caused by the previous Administration. The next year the figure had decreased to 8.2 per cent, indicating that the tools of control were chipping away and endeavouring to contain costs so that people were able to buy their own homes. Last year the figure was 6.4 per cent. 
Those are the parameters in which we should be discussing the housing situation. Because of the totality of the Government's policies- its onslaught on the control of inflation to keep interest rates down and its overall fiscal policy- we find that costs have been contained. We can look forward, therefore, to the future with some degree of confidence. The people of Australia can be assured that the policies of the Fraser-Anthony coalition Government have given and will continue to give economic stability. We will give that essential ingredient in the housing area. Let us not isolate certain factors. Let us look at the total picture of financial policy and the containment of costs so that housing, in the final analysis, will be within the reach of all Australians. It is difficult to assess the results of our policies in absolute terms but the Fraser-Anthony coalition Government has a wholehearted commitment to houses for every Australian person. Our policy is obviously paying dividends. 
When listening to the debate and to the speeches of Opposition members, I was reminded of one of Labor's previous Ministers for Housing. Honourable members will recall the rapid changes in the Labor ministry. Ministers were coming in and out like jack-in-the-boxes. When the attention of the former Minister for Housing was drawn to the rapid increase in the cost of housing he did not blink an eyelid but stood up and said: 'Well, people will have to live in smaller houses'. He suggested that the Australian people would have to tailor the size of their houses to the available finance, the value of which was being seriously eroded by the Labor Government's financial policies. 
I was reminded by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  of the Labor Government's proposal for an imputed rent on the value of houses. It was to be included in the overall taxation scale. Blood, sweat, toil and tears allow a person to purchase his own home, his little castle, his bit of Australia. All the better if it is a little bit of that glorious land, Darling Downs, but wherever it is it is a little bit of Australia. Yet the present Opposition, if it ever returned to government, would endeavour to put an imputed rent on the value of the private home. It does well to remind the Australian people of those policies. 
Because so many incorrect assertions are being made which are far from the truth and which are very disturbing, I draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the state of the House. I have never been so indignant in my life to hear such a pack of misrepresentations. What the honourable member said has nothing to do with Labor policy.  (Quorum formed). 
The second point which I would like the Minister to take up with State Ministers for Housing at the next housing conference is the stamp duty applicable on the homes which young people buy. In Queensland it can amount to a sum of $600. An excellent item on the agenda for the next conference of housing Ministers would be a discussion on the relief that could be given from stamp duties, particularly on a first home. The Home Savings Grants Scheme has been an excellent scheme. It is disappointing that there is a nine-month delay, but through the good efforts of the Minister, a man of sound practical commonsense, he was able, when the problem was brought to his attention, to arrange for the various lending institutions to receive advice that a grant would be paid in eight or nine months' time. The institutions were able to accept this as part and parcel of their on-going lending commitments. The problem with housing in Australia is that we have not had the opportunity of getting over the boom and slump conditions under the previous Administration. We are now getting to the stage of sound indicative planning which will ensure that all Australians have access to their own homes. 
-Iwill take a minute or two to raise an immigration matter which I think has very distressing and exceptional factors. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has refused to allow a three-year-old Filipino infant to be reunited with his mother in Australia. This case has received some mention in the Press. I know that it is known to the Minister. It concerns a family called Aussieker of Cronulla, a Sydney suburb. Over 20 months ago the family asked the Minister for permission to bring the child to Australia. Regrettably, he has refused. 
I ask him to reconsider this case. It seems to me that he has, very unfairly, attributed motives to this lady. The Minister has taken the view that  Mrs Aussieker  sought deliberately to mislead the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs when she was asked to indicate whether she had any dependants. Believing erroneously that the Australian immigration officials were inquiring whether she was economically dependent and, having a job, she answered no. One wonders whether her answer would have made any difference because the lady had married a man who has Australian residence. By virtue of the fact that he had Australian residence I think she acquired it, or possibly she acquired it in her own right. In any case, she acquired it. We now have a situation where there is a father and mother who have Australian residence and there is a young child approximately three years of age in the Philippines who is being denied the opportunity of being reunited with his mother. The Minister has some reasonable defence for the attitude that he has taken. He said: 

 Mrs Aussieker 's application is not an isolated one. There have been many instances where young women migrating to Australia have deliberately concealed the existence of children in the belief that this would reflect favourably on their applications. Language difficulties and the misunderstanding of rules are regularly advanced for excuses for the omission when the child 's admission is sought at a later date. 
I think what he said next is important. He continued: 
When  Mrs Aussieker  applied for her migrant visa in 1977 she completed her application in English and declared that she spoke English. Although the application form provided for the inclusion of children, whether or not they would be accompanying the applicant, details of Marvin - 
That is the son- were omitted.  Mrs Aussieker  also stated quite definitely that she had no children. In January 1978 when  Mrs Aussieker  applied for Marvin's entry she said that at the time of her own migration, arrangements had been made for him to be cared for by her mother until she settled in Australia. 
She took the view that she had no dependants as the child was in the care of the mother. It seems to me that it just does not matter now what the circumstances were. It is quite inconceivable that in this country a Minister of the Crown could be taking an attitude which will have the effect of deliberately depriving the mother of being reunited with her own child. I ask the Minister before he closes the book on this case to talk to this couple, who I regard to be genuine. The husband is a most responsible person. He suffered an illness as a result of the shock of the news coming to him that the young child could not be reunited with the mother. I hope there will be an opportunity for him to put the case personally to the Minister, who is not an unreasonable man. I have never heard of such a case in our history of a parent being deprived of the opportunity of being reunited with such a young child. It is totally out of character for the Minister to take this view. There are many extenuating and extraneous circumstances which justify urgent and sympathetic consideration. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) What measures has the Government taken, or does it intend to take, to ensure that commercial television in Australia is geared to, and caters adequately for, minority audiences including children. 
Which of the recommendations of the inquiry of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts into the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children, has the Government (a) accepted or (b) rejected. 
3 ) What is the estimated cost of those recommendations accepted. 
What would be the cost of implementing the rejected recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
What matters remain outstanding that would prevent an amendment to the operation of the Defence Service Homes Scheme to extend eligibility to members of the Citizen Military Forces and Women's Forces who served in Australia during the 1939-45 war. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
What percentage of the average cost of all houses built or financed under the Defence Service Homes Scheme was covered by the maximum loan in (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each State during (i) 1974-75, (ii) 1975-76, (iii) 1976-77,(iv) 1977-78 and (v 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 11 October 1979: 
1 ) What equipment and materials disappeared allegedly between 8 and 10 December 1978 from the isotope workshop or other areas within the jurisdiction of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights, NSW. 
Has the Commission recovered any of the equipment or materials. 
What was the value and weight of the equipment and materials which disappeared. 
asked the Treasurer, upon, notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) When will the Report of the Commissioner of Taxation on the indirect tax system requested by the Government in June 1978 be available to the Parliament and the public. 
Will he give an assurance that no broad based indirect taxes of any description are under current consideration. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by his Department in each year from 1975 to date and how many have not been completed. 
For each of the opinion polls or surveys, (a) which companies or private individuals were commissioned, (b) what was the subject matter and purpose and (c) what was the cost. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Has the Uranium Advisory Council inspected all environmental reports and recommendations made by government and semi-government officials and authorities at every stage of uranium mining operations at Rum Jungle; if so, what recommendations has the Council made to ensure that there will be no repetition of the environmental damage which has occurred at any other site at which uranium mining proceeds; if not, will he refer the matter to the Council for a report. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
How many applicants for tourist visas from (a) Greece, (b) Italy, (c) Turkey, (d) Cyprus, (e) the United Kingdom and (0 the United States of America were refused entry to Australia without being personally interviewed by Australian authorities during (i) 1975, (ii) 1976, (iii) 1977, (iv) 1 978 and (v) 1 979 to date. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
Have members of the Philippines Consulate or their families been investigated on alleged breaches of the Customs Act; if so, when did the alleged breaches take place and was diplomatic immunity waived by the Consulate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
In respect of official openings of projects which received Federal Government funding which (a) local Federal Government Member, (b) local Federal Opposition Member, (c) Government  Senator or  (d) Opposition  Senator officially  represented the Minister since December 1975. 
On which occasions were Government cheques handed over. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
1 ) In respect of official openings of projects which received Federal Government funding which (a) local Federal Government Member, (b) local Federal Opposition Member, (c) Government  Senator or  (d) Opposition  Senator officially  represented him since December 1 975. 
On which occasions were Government cheques handed over. 
