-I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. When will the new cadet scheme be phased in? I remind the Minister that in 1974 the then cadet scheme had its weapons taken from it and that in 1975, as result of the same unclear muddled thinking, the cadet scheme was phased out. When will our scheme be phased in? 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that, under the supposed cost-cutting program, the previous Administration stopped the posting of Australian passports by registered and certified post? Does the Minister know that passports are being lost and mislaid after being posted at the ordinary postal rate of 18c? Will the Minister give an undertaking that in future provision will be made for passports to be posted under certified mail, which will be an added cost to the Department? 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the continual flooding problem in the Brisbane federal division? Does the Minister know that gravel in the beds of Ithaca, Enoggera and Breakfast Creeks and Kedron Brook has built up since 1967 after the Labor City Council ceased to remove same? Will the Minister initiate a survey of this gravel which it is believed and suggested would be suitable for the foundations of the proposed new Brisbane airport? Can the Minister give an undertaking that if the survey proves successful the Government will undertake to use the gravel from these creeks? 
-I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has the Leader of the 
Opposition in New South Wales made statements that would indicate non-co-operation with the Federal Government's federalism policy? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am greatly honoured to be called by you on this first occasion as the honourable member for Brisbane. Firstly I want to thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  all honourable members and in particular the officers and staff of the House for the courtesies and practical help you have all given me in the last few weeks. 
In January 1974 Brisbane suffered the most damaging floods ever recorded in that city. Those floods damaged or destroyed some 12 000 homes and other buildings and caused terrible misery and financial loss to an estimated 70 000 people. Ministers of the Labor Government then in power in Canberra went to Brisbane and made a series of promises relating to flood mitigation and assistance to people who were left homeless, and gave assurances that work would be undertaken to prevent a recurrence of this disaster in the future. The flood victims of Brisbane realised after many months of waiting that not much help would be forthcoming from Canberra while the Labor Government was in power. 
Prior to my moving to Brisbane I experienced floods in northern New South Wales. Anyone who knows of the human suffering, the material damage and the prolonged disruption caused to industry and commerce by floods- as 1 know of it, and as many thousands of Brisbane people know of it- find such apathy in government impossible to understand. This sort of thinking goes beyond incompetence. As the Federal member for Brisbane I ask that this vigorous, responsible, new government of ours give top priority to a program of flood prevention and flood mitigation in Brisbane without further delay. I, as a newly arrived back bench member of this Government, ask this respectfully, fully aware of the enormous burden of other priorities and other major expenditures which the Government has to carry. But while I ask respectfully, my constituentsthe citizens of Brisbane- are demanding that it be done. The electors, the taxpayers of Brisbane, are looking to us to ensure that the promises made by our Labor predecessors are carried out and are honoured. 
In the short time that our new Government has been in power at least a start has been made. Surveys are being undertaken to determine the suitability of using the gravel in the beds of creeks around Brisbane for projects such as the foundations for the new Brisbane airport. If this survey is satisfactory the Ithica, Enoggera, Breakfast and Kedron Brook Creeks will be dredged and deepened and the run-off of flood waters through this natural drainage system around Brisbane will be accelerated. That is a start, but it is not enough. Adequate government finance and resources must be put to work quickly in a full scale co-ordinated program of flood prevention and flood mitigation to forestall a repeat of the 1 974 catastrophe which in view of the recent cyclone season we have just experienced in Queensland and northern New South Wales could occur at any time. Surely it is false economy for government to do nothing until a disaster occurs at a cost to the nation of hundreds of millions of dollars and then to do nothing again until the same thing happens all over again. 
It is estimated that the 1974 flood in Brisbane caused direct damage alone estimated at $ 142m. Add to that losses in wages and production and the cost of repairs and government payments in relief amounting to $36m and we have an astronomical bill of $ 178m to be met by the taxpayers, and this figure is for the Brisbane River alone. A program of flood prevention and mitigation in a capital city such as Brisbane will not be cheap, but can we afford not to have it? So far almost nothing has been done to protect Brisbane against another major flood. If this state of affairs continues it will be an indictment not only of the Australian Labor Party which must bear the initial blame for procrastination and delays, but also of government in Australia, which we must all share. 
As the Federal member for Brisbane I do not intend to allow this Parliament to forget this important subject. At the risk of being accused of being a bore, I shall return to it again and again until I am satisfied that sufficient is being done. In my humble opinion the prevention of major natural disasters to our towns and cities wherever possible should be of the highest priority in our deliberations as parliamentarians. As a newly elected member of this Parliament I know that I have a lot to learn about government and I respect the greater experience which I know lies concealed under the grey eminences- and some not so grey- around me. I have asked myself many times: What do I believe in? What is my own philosophy within that of my own Party? What can I do best to fulfill the confidence of those 59 967 electors who put me in Parliament last December? First, let me say that I believe in Australia, our Australian public institutions and the Australian way of life. It is my intention to help in my small, humble way my country, those institutions of which this Parliament is one and the Australian way of life. If that sounds corny, sentimental or perhaps fatuous I make no apology because that is the way I feel and I believe that is why I am here. 
One of our Australian institutions is the Constitution, and that Constitution provides that we have a Governor-General and sets out the legal parameters within which that Governor-General must work. I wish to make this point for the consideration of honourable members: Even though we may not agree with parts of the Australian Constitution or with the legal parameters within which the Governor-General works, we, as Australians, are obliged to go along with that situation as gracefully as possible until the people of Australia change that Constitution. While ever the Governor-General remains within the legal parameters of his job it behoves us as lawabiding Australians to support him. If we do not like the rules under which he is operating we should change the rules, not abuse the man operating under those rules. 
It has struck me as grossly wrong that a personal vendetta has been launched against the 
Governor-General for political reasons- and not only against him, but against members of bis family. If the Governor-General had broken the Constitution by bis actions of late last year in dismissing the then Prime Minister, I very much doubt that he would still be Governor-General today. The matter was much ventilated before the federal election in December and plenty of opportunity existed to take action against the man if he had acted illegally. The Labor Party could have instituted such action in the courts but has not done so. Therefore we must conclude that the Labor Party agrees that he acted within the law of this nation according to the Constitution. Of course, certain people may resent in principle what he did. But the greatest jury in Australia, the majority of Australian electors, supported what he did by defeating the Whitlam Government and putting a Liberal coalition Government in power. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  made his dismissal by the Governor-General a central issue at the elections, and he failed. But now, after all that, when I read in the newspapers that the GovernorGeneral is still being subjected to personal abuse for having done his duty legally and as he saw was necessary, I am saddened and also concerned. If we condone that sort of public behaviour, we condone disrespect for the law of this country and disrespect for our institutions, and that is the first step towards anarchy. It has saddened me that in this House I have not heard one member of the Opposition come forward and say: 'Stop! That man holds an office which makes it impossible for him to retaliate. He is operating within the restrictions of the rules of that office'. If we do not like the Constitution, let us change it. If we Australians do not like our Constitution, the remedy is available: We must change it. If we do not Uke the office of Governor-General we should set about eliminating that office; but we should not condone the present attacks against the holder of that office. 
I have said that I am concerned with helping to defend the Australian way of life and our standard of living. In this field no more important work can be contemplated than fair treatment of the senior citizens of this country, who laid the foundations for our present affluent standard of living. I wish to say briefly that I support wholeheartedly the forthcoming action of this Government in introducing within the next few weeks legislation which will tie pension increases to the consumer price index. The first increase will mean an extra $2.50 for single pensioners and $4 for married couples, taking the single rate to $41.25 and the rate for married couples to $68.50- the highest pension payments in this country's history. Many lies have been told by the Labor Party in the area of pensions, and I should like to give to the House just one example of the Labor deceit This matter came to my attention the other day. It concerns a 75-year-old widow who is blind. Her tax before 1 January was $6.13 a fortnight, which netted her $90.50 a fortnight. Following the introduction of Labor's high taxation scheme, she now pays $33.60 a fortnight, which leaves her with $63.03 a fortnight. That has happened to thousands and thousands of pensioners in Australia. 
The electorate of Brisbane, which I represent, has a high migrant population. Therefore, in this Parliament I shall be taking a deep interest in all legislation which affects migrants, who have made such a valuable contribution to the advancement of this nation. I shall seek to influence Government decisions, if possible, based on my knowledge of the subject, learned from practical experience among my constituents. I congratulate the present Government on having divided the administration within the Public Service of the former Department of Labor and Immigration, ending an amalgamation instituted by the Labor Government. Whatever close liaison existed between the 2 former departments, what necessitated their amalgamation was beyond my comprehension. 
It is part of our Australian way of life that we elect to this Parliament people from all walks of life. I am from the garment and textile industry, where I had some 12 years of business experience. This industry quite stupidly was given a hard time by the previous Federal Government. Because of the anti-industry policies of that Government and its advisers, many of whom seemed to have a socialistic bias against all forms of manufacturing in this country, the garment and textile industry went into a serious recession. Employment in the industry fell by more than 38 000 people, and by a total of 34 000 people in the 12 months from March 1974 to March 1975, mainly due to the 25 per cent tariff" cut and other policy encouragements to importers. So-called economists were encouraged by the previous Government to persecute the garment and textile industry by endless public inquiries into its efficiency and the industry was called upon repeatedly to restructure itself- a fine touch of irony and hypocrisy when one considers the lack of efficiency and the need for restructuring within the Labor Government which was giving such advice. 
The facts are these: Given our standard of living and wage costs, no Australian industry can compete with cheap-labour countries, where sweat shop conditions are being exploited by foreign capital to produce goods which come to this country, disrupt our home market and put thousands of Australians out of work. I am happy that this Government now is doing much to protect the industry and the jobs of those within it, not only in the short term but also in the long term. The garment and textile industry employs some 41 per cent of the total female work force in Australia. The industry is the keystone to prosperity for numerous support industries. If the garment and textile industry goes down it pulls down with it many other industries in a chain reaction. I estimate that if that were to happen a total of a quarter of a million Australians would be affected. The repercussions within the economy would go even further- into the retail industry, the transport and advertising industries, etc. I repeat that the advice the previous Government received and acted upon- that the garment and textile industry be treated in isolation and be reduced in size or even destroyed, without regard to the effect that would have on employment for women and without regard to the effect it would have on other industries- was quite stupid in the real sense of the word. 
I know that this Government will give the garment and textile industry its full attention in its efforts to regenerate business confidence, business investment and the re-employment of the workforce to get the economy back to normal. It is an industry which can and will develop into a highly proficient section of our community, employing the female workforce throughout the world as it does, in a way in which no other industry can employ them. That applies to the graziers' and farmers' wives in country towns, who currently are being employed in the garment manufacturing section, and to the young girl who is looking for different hours of work which will ensure a greater flexibility in the use of her leisure time. The industry also includes a collection of individuals who through sheer expertise, hard work and dedication have managed in most cases to drag themselves up from nothing to something. Most people in the industry did not start off with great wealth. They started with the Australian ideal: Good, honest hard work is rewarding and is rewarded by a standard of living which is amongst the top in the world. 
Before one attains the honour and privilege of being elected as a member of this House there are usually some people who hold public office and whom one hopes to emulate. I am very fortunate in having in my Federal division three such men. Tonight I would like to say thank you to them and also to ensure that this House knows of their calibre. I refer, firstly. to the member for Ithaca,  Mr Col Miller,  who would be one of the finest examples of integrity in political life. On numerous occasions he has stood for a principle, and for dedication to his electorate and to the State House in Queensland. It is my privilege to know that part of his electorate is within my Federal division. Next I would like to pay tribute to  Mr Don  Lane, the member for Merthyr. The migrant community has grown to love and respect him greatly.  His  dedication to them has meant an understanding and comprehension of people with different backgrounds from those of Australians. The honour and integrity of those people has meant a great deal to me and my colleagues in Queensland. Thirdly, I refer to  Mr Bob  Moore, the State member for Windsor, a man who has shown a single minded purposefulness and concern for the people in his electorate through his membership of the State House. I also congratulate my State colleague on his election as  Deputy  Whip in the Legislative Assembly. I take this opportunity to welcome to the parliamentary union the new Liberal aldermen on the Brisbane City Council- Alderman Denver Beanland of the Auchenflower ward, Alderman Syd McDonald of the Hamilton ward and Alderman John Andrews of the Gap ward. Those wards are within the Federal division of Brisbane. 
I also thank the electors of the Federal division of Brisbane for the great honour and privilege of being their elected representative in Canberra. I will be doing my utmost to be worthy of them; for as long as they continue to place their confidence in me I will represent the people of the Brisbane electorate in all matters. I should also like to congratulate  Mr Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees on attaining their high offices, and again I thank my colleagues and all members of this House for the courtesy they have shown me. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.29)-Having spoken already in the Address-in-Reply debate, it is my intention tonight to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  On the previous occasion I took the opportunity to congratulate the  Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees on their appointment, and on this occasion I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your appointment. It is a pleasure to speak in this House while you occupy the Chair. I would also like to congratulate the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  on his maiden speech together with the other members who have made their maiden speeches. I thought the maiden speeches were of a high standard and in particular those made from this side of the House by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam). 
It is true that the Governor-General's Speech made no acknowledgement of the financial preeminence of the House of Representatives. It is equally true that what happened in relation to the financing of various departments of the Australian Government and the financial authority of  Her  Majesty's Twenty-ninth Parliament prior to 13 December 1975 has destroyed the confidence of millions of Australian electors in what was previously known as the people's House, what was previously known as our way of life, what was known as the people's system of government. Even today the overwhelming majority of Australians who supported or even opposed the Whitlam-led Labor Government are stunned and dumbfounded at the role the people's House plays in financial matters and at that power being usurped by the undemocratically elected members of the other chamber. Some might say that the members of the other chamber who took on themselves this power to block the supply of finance which is necessary to run the various government departments of this great country were democratically elected but when one remembers the appointments of  Senator Field  of Queensland and  Senator Bunton  of New South Wales it is hard to understand how anyone could come to that conclusion. Surely the result of subsequent elections following the unjustified sacking of the Whitlam Government would prove to anyone that both these senators were not the choice of the people of those 2 States. If they were not the choice of the people of those States, how could it be claimed that they were democratically elected? 
The democratic system of this country has reached a very low level if people can be appointed to the Senate by State governments and then have the power to block the supply of finance approved by this House of Representatives a House in which each member is elected by the wishes and the votes of the people of Australia. The votes of the people of Australia give this House of Representatives the basic power, one might say the singular power, of total control over the appropriation of money from the Treasury and from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Governor-General failed to inform the nation why that singular power held by the House of Representatives was allowed to be sidetracked and subverted by an undemocratically elected Senate, a hostile Senate that constitutionally has no power to initiate money Bills or even to amend money Bills. In the absence of advice on this matter by the GovernorGeneral the electors, in my opinion, are forced to assume that the people's House- the House of Representatives- has power relating to money Bills only on the basis of good faith by a Senate composed of senators not elected but nominated by State political leaders. 
The Governor-General should have informed the nation why a precedent has been created whereby the Senate is able to refuse to consider the appropriation of funds passed for payment by this House. Why was he silent on this, the greatest departure from long-established precedents of the people's Parliament? Due to his silence on this point the people cannot help believing that he was part of a conspiracysomething which is better known and more often suffered in other countries- brought about, I believe, because of the Labor Government's opposition to and refusal to obey the multi-national companies, the money lenders and the money controllers of this country and other nations. 
Is it not true that by judicial decision in the 1942 uniform tax case the Commonwealth was given the right to collect taxes? The High Court ruled that the Government could occupy the whole field of taxation and from that date the Australian Government has excercised that power clearly establishing its pre-eminence from the point of view of the nation's financial resources. It naturally follows that the Commonwealth has the responsibility to administer these financial resources in the best interests of the nation. The House of Representatives must have a pre-eminence in these matters. It is vitally important to the development of Australia. Australia has to speak with one voice. It cannot speak with the voices of 6 separate States through the people those States have appointed undemocratically and unconventionally to the Senate. The House of Representatives should have pre-eminence in this matter. If we have not got pre-eminence how can we plan ahead in defence, our foreign affairs policy, our trading policy and indeed in relation to our internal problems such as the announcement in Cobar that there are to be further retrenchments in the Cobar copper mines? 
The House of Representatives should have the courage and the power to make decisions on these matters which are so vital to the welfare of the people we represent. The Labor Government took this initiative under the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. The Labor Government had the power to deal with situations such as that which exists in the Cobar copper mines at the present time. One might well ask: What has this Government done about monetary policies? When is the Government going to announce policies on the Industries Assistance Commission findings on the copper industry? Surely the people have a right to know these things. The failure of the Governor-General to provide information on these matters has put this House in a position in which financial debates are conducted on the basis that we do not have control of the economy. We are forced to debate on the basis that we have no right to allocate our financial resources. If we have not got this right we cannot really offer any policies. I believe we should be able to make these decisions because section 53 of the Constitution gives the House of Representatives this power. Why should we have to wait for the Senate to tell us that we can assist an industry such as the copper industry? 
We are now in a position where, if the House of Representatives objects to the Senate's taking over the handling of the appropriation of funds, a government can be dismissed at the GovernorGeneral's prerogative. It is a ridiculous situation in which a Senate can continually reject Supply Bills and the House of Representatives has to go continually to the people when the Senate itself need not go and cannot be made to go to the people. Democratic processes were never meant to be run on this basis. We will be failing in our responsibility to the people if we do not bring the danger of the situation to their attention. No future government can afford to risk having a majority in the House of Representatives and a minority in the Senate. No matter how good a government's policy or legislation is it can be thrown out of power at the whim of the Senate or the Governor-General because he believed, as he stated, that the previous Government had an inability to obtain Supply. 
I remind all political parties that if they wish to have a democratic system in this country the means of achieving power is important. If political parties play a ruthless game to obtain and to keep power at any price democracy cannot be expected to survive. As the amendment of the honourable member for Scullin states, the Governor-General's Speech did not acknowledge the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives, but the Governor-General's actions are just as important in this regard as the actions of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. Whatever his motivation was for doing what he did on 11 November last, there can be no doubt that he struck a crippling blow at the faith many Australians have in our democratic and parliamentary system. The GovernorGeneral 's Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian parliamentary system as we know it. Yet the constitutional crisis shook the very foundation of the people's form of government. The people have some right to an inquiry into the Constitution to prevent this sad event from recurring. It is in the best interests of Australian democracy that we should continue with a system whereby the events of last year cannot be repeated, but I believe that the Governor-General wants them to be repeated. If he does not he should have informed the nation in his Speech. 
The powers of the people's House in relation to money matters have been usurped. The powers of the House of Representatives are now so flimsy that the Senate can refuse to consider Appropriation Bills and force the Government to the people. Is that what the Governor-General stands for, or does he himself believe that he should have more power than the people's Parliament? The Governor-General's Speech does not tell us. It gives us no answer to these questions, but I believe the truth is coming home to the Australian public. They now know that the proposals outlined in the Governor-General's Speech are so framed as to cause a major transfer of resources from the middle and low income families to those on higher income levels. That is why I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Before I call the honourable member for Canberra I remind honourable members on both sides of the House that it is the honourable member's maiden speech. I would ask all honourable members to extend the courtesy that is usual on such occasions. 
I wish to congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  on this most important piece of legislation which we are debating this evening. It is the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill. I believe that in Australia today we have to look at tariffs in a different light from what we have previously. Tariffs, as a mechanism for providing meaningful assistance to industry, are useless in today's world because of 2 main factors. Firstly, there is the volatility of national exchange rates  vis-a-vis  the Australian dollar and the United States dollar. In 1973 $A1 was the equivalent of U.S.S1.25. In 1974 it had risen to $1.45 and today it is back to $1.22. Secondly, there is the rapid and high rate of wage and raw material costs which has plagued Australia for the last 2 or 3 years and which this Government is now trying to control. 
These 2 factors in recent years have successfully rendered protection to all manufacturing industry through tariffs, virtually meaningless. Tariffs, as a means of providing assistance for industry, certainly had relevance in the period when wage and raw material costs in Australia were stable and when Australia was trading in an international environment with stable exchange rates. Under these conditions local industries cost disabilities as against overseas producers could be assessed with some precision and could confidently be expected to be maintained at assessed levels for fairly extended periods. In these circumstances the tariff could be used to provide meaningful assistance to local industries. It was used, too. It was the principal means of assisting the development of local industry in Australia. 
The use of protective policies commenced in the immediate prewar period and was maintained in the immediate postwar period until 1967-68 when the Tariff Board released the first of a series of annual reports which questioned the approach which had been used over this period. It called for the re-orientation of Australia's economic planning, the better utilisation of resources and the restructuring of industries. In the volatile international trading environment which I have just described there is a trend towards the use of a quota system for the protection of local industries. This is now gathering momentum in other countries, particularly for labour intensive industries and in the United States where quota contracts are negotiated with the governments of other countries over periods of 3 to 4 years. This use of important quotas has been giving some measure of stability to international trade, whereas if the tariff had been used extensively in such countries- as it is used in Australia- there would have been a serious market disruption in those countries as there has been in Australia. In other words, the time as arrived when we have to get more into alignment with the realities of the world trading situation. 
It is of no credit to us in Australia that we are now the last country still relying almost exclusively on the use of tariffs to assist local industry against imports. We should consider another factor and that is the unseen protection which governments of other countries have been giving their industries for many years. We in Australia have never attempted to make use of this protection, that is, non-tariff barriers to trade. If any honourable gentlemen are interested they can obtain from the Department of Overseas Trade here in Canberra a list of some 800 different methods being used in foreign countries as nontariff barriers to imports in order to protect their local industries. These include, for example, restrictive quarantine regulations, restrictive and stringent standards laws which the domestic industry is geared for but which foreign industry finds it difficult to meet. Labelling laws are another way of shutting out foreign goods. Taxation assistance and other subsidies to local industry by foreign governments are also a hidden protection, along with stringent customs regulations, transport subsidies and so on. This is only the tip of the iceberg. Many of the means of protection are so deeply rooted in the financial history of these countries that they go back 100 years or more and have become so much a part of the government of those countries and of their trade policies that they are difficult for investigators from trading partner nations to isolate and identify. 
To sum up, it is a fairly highly sophisticated trading world which we face and the methods we have been using and the policies we have been using in our trading relations have been simplistic and rudimentary in the extreme. We have been babes in the woods in international trade and we have been able to survive only because the situation immediately post-war made tariff control workable under the conditions which then prevailed and particularly under the canny leadership of  Sir John  McEwen whose policy was to foster the growth of Australian manufacturing industries. During the last few years we have been going through a period of dangerous stagnation and, in some industries, lamentable decline because we have been losing sight of the need to protect our industries and we have buckled under international pressures for a reduction of tariffs without the saving foresight of introducing quotas and other means of protection which have enabled our accusers internationally to be big hearted and to reduce their tariff levels. For example, the United States can make a grand gesture of reducing tariffs by 2 per cent across the board but it does not mean one damn thing because the United States has an iron clad series of guarantees for the security of its industries in the form of quota agreements which are controlled rigidly at the point of export in foreign countries or, if the governments of those countries are inefficient, at the point of arrival in the United States. 
Allied to this need to rethink our industry protection policies is the dangerous development here in Canberra, particularly in the bureaucracy, of the philosophy that our industries must be geared to the recent slow-down in population growth and intake of migrants because that is going to be the permanent situation. A number of people in Canberra are thinking that there is no future for labour intensive industries in Australia because the Borrie report has forecast zero population growth for this country, with a steadily ageing population. I am assured by the architect of that report that that was never in his mind and that it has been taken completely out of context. Of course, this argument is so absurd that it cannot be taken seriously. If we were to accept the Borrie report predictions as our destiny and not take corrective measures, how long would we last in the international demand for raw materials and living space? It would be an acceptance of national suicide. It would be a readiness to lie down and die. Therefore, despite the Borrie report, we must take it for granted that corrective measures will be taken, whether they be an incentive from government for a higher birth rate or a massive new injection of migrant intake, and of course industry must never be phased down. 
I have mentioned that instance because it is only another indicator of the steps that the shortsighted people will take to try to persuade this Government that the world is a global village and that Australia should surrender its industries in a magnanimous way to make work for foreigners and to raise standards of living elsewhere. Tomorrow those people who are economic missionaries but are without any practical commonsense will be quoting to us not the Borrie report but some other convenient stalking horse for their crackpot philosophies. Even the Borrie report is suspect. Let me quote to the House this extract from the Borrie report to illustrate that the authors do not even claim that their work is the definitive destination for Australia: 
While the relatively short range of the Inquiry of some thirty years may disappoint some, anyone who has had experience with projections in the social sciences must know how hazardous a forward glance is, even to ten, let alone thirty years. Moreover, as the Report will show, the current demographic scene is so pregnant with evidence of change, both within and beyond Australia, that forecasting at this moment has become almost as hazardous as it was found to be during the years of the great depression of the 'thirties when the dominant fear was population decline. 
The breadth of the inquiry is therefore obvious from the terms of reference and it would be foolish to claim that the report now presented is, or could be, definitive on a number of matters that have policy implications. 
In concluding this section of my speech, let me summarise. Tariff protection is of no real value to this country under present international trading conditions. We are the last country in the world using it, and we are using it in a way which will do a great deal of damage to our secondary industries and to Australia internationally. We have to be smart enough to study the protective measures of other countries more closely than we have and, if necessary, to borrow from the best of their ideas. Our industries must be protected at all costs or we shall become a declining nation with massive unemployment and little technology and, during the adverse trade cycles, not even be able to afford to import the goods we require because we do not produce enough to enable us to earn money to buy. Finally, I wish to urge upon this Government as strongly as I am able the need to study closely the worldwide trend toward quota protection for industries in the time of international fiscal instability. 
I was very surprised to hear a member of the Opposition earlier in the debate refer to the 25 per cent tariff cut as something that was quite good. I would like to go on record as saying that that one single action was the start of the downfall of the previous Administration, because in one fell swoop it destroyed the confidence of a great number of business people throughout Australia. I know of one area in particular that was affected. I have been intimately involved in it for a number of years. I refer to the garment and textile industry. In the period 1972-73, 166 848 people were employed in that very vital industry in Australia. Following that decision to cut tariffs by 25 per cent, some 38 000 registered unionists of the 2 major unions in that field lost their jobs A further 12 000 people, who were not members of those unions and who were in the fringe areas, also lost their jobs. They were the people directly involved in the garment and textile industry. Each time I hear a member of the Opposition speak about tariffs and other related matters I am reminded of the old adage: A little knowledge is a dangerous thing. 
An international survey was undertaken recently to look at tariffs and their implication on the Australian garment industry. Its purpose also is to put into clearer perspective the recession in the industry. A study tour of North America and Europe has gained further information from a variety of other sources. The study has visited Asia on a similar mission. I wish to urge the Australian Government to move as rapidly as possible to introduce a combination of voluntary restraint agreements and quota restrictions to control imports of clothing into this country, and also to move towards and to show the need for maintaining import controls. Without import controls the Australian industry would cease to exist and a further 125 000 people would be out of work. 
These remarks are related to an area which I believe should also be mentioned. The latest statistics which have come to my attention show that 13 per cent of people engaged in the industrythat is, 1 1 033 people- are actively involved and are employed directly in the country areas of Australia. In the last few years those people have been holding together the economies of a number of small towns throughout Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. With the low prices which we have in the primary producing area at the present time, if those people were to be no longer engaged in the industry we would have a serious problem on our hands. 
The disruption of the market for apparel and textiles in Australia in the 1974 and 1975 period closely paralleled similar occurrences in most other Western countries. A world wide assault has been made upon the markets of industrially advanced countries by textile producers from cheap labour nations. The garment industry in some Western countries, notably Sweden, Denmark and West Germany, have been hurt as severely or even worse than that of Australia. Japan, which previously had a reputation of being a cheap labour country, now is being forced to seek protection against imports of textiles from nations with much lower standards of living, much lower wages, and cheaper working conditions. 
The following salient points arising out of the international study to which I have referred are worthy of consideration by government, industry and even unions and the Opposition. Much of the cheap labour in low wage countries virtually is sweat shop labour being exploited by foreign capital. This point is demonstrated by the example of Thailand. The International Ladies Garment Workers Union, based in the United States of America, is aggressively opposing the internationalisation of garment industry sweat shops. No Western nation can compete on a fashion basis or by any other means against competition from apparel imports from cheap labour countries. Such competition must be controlled by a quota system on imports and voluntary restraints. The use of tariffs is ineffective. Constant government vigilance to safeguard a fair share of the home market for the local industry is essential. The United States has been the most successful nation so far in protecting its textile industry. New Zealand is another country which has not permitted serious damage to occur to its textile industry. Textile imports from countries with communist governments must be classified as unfair competition for industries in free enterprise nations. Such governments heavily subsidise export production from their factories and will export below the cost of production, sometimes to gain hard foreign currency. Hungary is cited as an example in that area. 
In Western nations the structure of the apparel industry is the same, being made up of numerous small countries supporting a large number of female employees. The industry is labour intensive throughout the world, and that includes the United States. There is evidence to indicate that the loss of or damage to the apparel industry in any Western nation forms a pool of unemployed who are difficult to place anywhere else in jobs within the national economy. In Sweden and 
West Germany women displaced from the clothing industry remain unemployed despite government assistance. The clothing industry is regarded by all nations as being an essential and basic industry within their national economies. In Sweden, where the Government allowed its clothing industry to be almost destroyed by import competition, the same Government has now embarked upon a program of buying back the industry to maintain a production capacity in clothing for defence and other national emergency requirements. 
Cheap imports do not necessarily provide cheap clothing at consumer levels anywhere in the world, contrary to popular opinion amongst members of the previous Government, nor do such imports provide satisfactory service to the consumer public, particularly after the local industry has been crippled. Damage to the garment industry in most nations has the domino effect of damaging other supplier industries. That applies especially in Australia, where the fabric and fibre industries do not export and rely heavily upon the local industry as a market. Workers in the Australian clothing industry are paid hourly rates which are amongst the highest in the world for their type of occupation. However, those rates will not price Australian workers out of their jobs if an adequate share of the home market is reserved for their products, as happens in the United States of America. If a free trade policy is followed for sections of the Australian economy such as the clothing industry, it not only seems likely but it will happen that the displaced workers from those sections will soon form a new class of poor in Australia. 
I should like to refer to the assertion made by a number of people of a net subsidy equivalent, which has been bandied around by some uninformed groups within the Australian community. I should like to bring to the attention of the House a few relevant and pertinent facts. Textiles, yarns and woven fabrics total a $68m subsidy level; clothing and knitted goods total $123m. The subsidy per employee, if it is used in that light, amounts to approximately $1,650, but I should like to put that into context. It does not mean that we are going to be able to buy a Holden motor car, the new price of which is $5,089, less the $4,000 subsidy per individual- according to one report- at a price of $1,089. That is just not so. Tariffs have been an important part of Australian labour intensive industries. We have built and effectively maintained a very high standard of living, and one of the means by which we have been able to maintain that high standard of living has been through the use of tariffs and protection measures for our labour intensive industries, such as garments and textiles, footwear, which is now coming back to this country after having been mainly offshore, the motor vehicle industry, the chemical industry, the tourist industry and quite a few others. Those are all industries whose continuation we need to ensure with the use of tariffs. We have now to go one step further and look at quotas. I support the Bill,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that Australia's last ophthalmic manufacturing businessthat of the Martin Wells company- is about to close down? Does the Minister know that some 400 people employed directly by the company will lose their jobs and that some 2000 indirectly employed also will lose their jobs? Will the Minister tell this House what course of action he proposes to take to ensure that this does not happen? Does the Minister know that the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission were known for some time prior to 20 February 1976? Has the Minister been informed of the New Zealand situation in which a local ophthalmic company has been increasing its plant size to accommodate the proposed increase in sales to the Australian market? Will the Minister consider changing the name of the LAC, the Industries Assistance Commission, to a name more in keeping with its actual role, namely the IDC, the Industries Destruction Commission? 
-Will the Minister for Transport tell the House the true reasons for, and background of, the purchase of Electra aircraft by Trans-Australia Airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia, Tasman Empire Airways Limited and now Air New Zealand and Qantas? Does the Minister realise that the wild assertions of the now even more temporary Leader of the Opposition show a truly great lack of understanding of the reasons for the decision to purchase these aircraft? 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the honourable gentleman received a confidential report from the Treasury stating that under the new arrangements he announced last Thursday night some 57 per cent of taxpayers would be worse off? 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that on 7 September the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  This Day Tonight  included a segment of 17 minutes' duration about police from Cairns arresting a number of people living at Cedar Bay on charges of possession of drugs and vagrancy? Has the Minister received any complaints about the apparent lack of balance and the bias in this program? 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of the significant delay in payment of benefits to contributors of some private health insurance funds? Can he take any action to expedite these payments? Finally, will he assure the House that Medibank Private will give prompt service to its contributors? 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that only 150 survey forms have been sent to Australian garment manufacturers in relation to an Industries Assistance Commission assessment of the industry? Will the Minister ensure that all garment manufacturers are included in the survey? Finally, is the Minister aware that the forthcoming report from the IAC is of vital interest to the garment and apparel industry in this country? 
on asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How much time was allocated by the ABC on (a) radio and (b) television news to statements and announcements by members and known supporters of (i) the Government and (ii) the Opposition during the period I January 1976 to 31 August 1976. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Will he now provide an answer to my question No 1083 by 21 October 1976. 
-I rise to support the 8 Bills that the Government has introduced and to oppose the amendments that have been moved on behalf of the Opposition. I am surprised that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  speaks this way in the debate this afternoon, because as a Minister in the previous Government he was part of the team which considered the triennial report of the education commissions and reduced the funds for 1976 by $ 105m compared with 1975. I say by way of example that the Schools Commission in its report sought approximately $720m for 1975 but received $498m in 1 975 under a Labor Government- a reduction of $222m 
Let me bring the debate back to reality. When we arrived in Government on 1 4 December 1 975 education was another area where a disaster had occurred. There were major problems in the education area. The Labor mess of broken promises and deceit which had occurred with the cutting out of triennial funding and the reduction of moneys which I have just mentioned meant that what we had to do firstly was to reintroduce the triennial funding program. The new form of triennial funding program will be on a rolling basis. As each year is completed plans for the remaining years of the triennium will be reviewed and updated and initial proposals made for a new third year. This will include a provision for long term reviews. Each of the commissions was asked to submit detailed programs after the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  made public on 20 May 1976 that what was needed was a complete review of the requirements of each of the commissions. There needed to be detailed recommendations for the first year and a plan proposed for the second and third years. These were forthcoming. From that the guidelines which the Minister laid down provided a total expenditure of the programs administered by the education commissions of some $ 1,537m in the 1977 calendar year. Let me give the amount allocated for each commission in 1977 as compared with 1976. The amount allocated for the Universities Commission in 1976 was $542m. This will increase to $555m in 1977. The Commission on Advanced Education received $3 85m in 1976 and will receive $494m in 1977. The Technical and Further Education Commission received $65m in 1976 and will receive $70m in 1977. The Schools Commission in 1976 received $498m and in 1 977 will receive $508m. The total in 1976 was $ 1,490m. In 1977 it will be $ 1,537m. This represents an increase of $47m or 3.2 per cent in real terms in 1977. The cash flow in 1976-77 will be $ 1,569m which represents an increase of 4.2 per cent. 
I believe our Government has demonstrated a clear degree of concern for the people and the future of Australia. The children are the most important part of our heritage. It is part of the Government's thoughts that it ensures the future of those children and ensures that those children will be looked after and educated in a way which will solve the problems that would have occurred under the previous administration. I turn now to the guidelines which were laid down within the financial limits referred to. The Government asked the Schools Commission to base its recommendations on the maintenance of existing standards in government and non-government schools. In drawing up the recommendations for the 1977 expenditure provision was made for the continuation of special purpose programs such as those for handicapped children, migrants and disadvantaged schools. This is allied with a further substantial increase of SO per cent in the allocation of moneys to handicapped children which was brought down with the Budget and the real family allowance increase which was effective from the middle of June. The assistance which is now rendered directly in money terms to each individual family in this country is quite substantial. After the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education, the Technical and Further Education Commission and the Schools Commission were asked to report they went to work and came up with a substantive program for spending in the 1976-77 financial year. The programs in 1977 mean an increase of some $47m in real terms over 1976. The commissions' reports in more specific detail show that along with the money allocated for this financial year the commission will convey to the authorities and institutions further details of procedures agreed to by this Government. Briefly, these include the adjustments of agreed cost increases which will be made each quarter following certification from each commission of the supplementation required to maintain real levels of expenditure approved for the 1977 program. Account will be taken of offsetting savings including any from favourable building tenders. Movements in costs will be measured against indexation of wages and salary determinations and other recurrent building costs. Through this process the Minister will be able to approve programs to supplement grants to meet unfavourable cost increases. It effectively means that there will be a real increase of some 2 per cent over the second and third years. The education facilities of universities and colleges of advanced education can look forward to the future with a vast amount of confidence. 
The Government has also accepted the financial recommendations of the Universities Commission for 1977. The total program amounts to $56 1.6m. In Queensland we have 3 magnificent universities- the Queensland University, the Griffith University, which is the new university, and the James Cook University. The total amount of moneys allocated this year will be to Queensland University $48.732m, to the James Cook University $9.3 98m and to the Griffith University $6.45 lm. The total amount of money allocated to Queensland universities is now $64.5 81m. This shows the genuine concern of this Government. 
Colleges of advanced education are also an area of great importance to this Government. The advanced education field is ever increasing because of the type of information which is now current and which needs to be disseminated to the people of Australia through the colleges of advanced education. The allocations in real terms by the Commission on Advanced Education covers some $404m at the 1975 cost levels. In that area, in Queensland again, there will be a total expenditure of $5 1.9m. The expenditure on the recurrent program will be $42m and the expenditure on the capital program will be $9.9m. Again, these sums represent a substantial increase in the amount allocated for expenditure in an extremely important area. 
I turn to deal with the technical and further education field. The Government's 1977 expenditure program on this area- formulated upon the recommendations of the Technical and Further Education Commission- will amount to $73m at December 1975 cost levels. This amount is composed of $3 8.4m for recurrent expenditure and $34.6m for capital expenditure. These funds include an amount of $3m to be transferred from the Commission on Advanced Education to cover advanced education courses in technical and further education institutions. A significant proportion of the recurrent funds for 1 977 will go towards the continuation of specific projects commenced in earlier periods with Commonwealth assistance and to the establishment of new programs designed to improve the quality of teaching and other resources in this area. These special purpose programs include staff development schemes- including non-teaching staffimprovement of information systems and a group of other programs from which States are able to choose according to their priorities. The States must accept their degree of responsibility in this area. To that end, the total amount of money which is being allocated- again in Queensland- will mean that the total program of major projects in our capital areas will amount to $4.8m and for minor work and equipment, some $200,000. Expenditure in the total capital area will amount to almost $Sm. Expenditure on recurrent general purpose grants will amount to $2.2m. Together with special purpose grants, for staff development and data collection and processing, particular purpose grants, adult education grants and total recurrent grants, the total contribution will amount to some $8.9 1 m. 
The schools area is one sector to which the Government has again given a major priority. The 1977 expenditure program for schools amounts to some $508m. Of this amount, $3 10.3m is for government schools, $ 173.4m for non-government schools and $24.2m is to be shared jointly between the government and nongovernment sectors. This is one area in which I believe it is extremely important that we have a continuation of communication between parents, teachers and local communities. It is a great delight for me to sit down with my children, listen to what they are learning about and to read them the stories which are coming from the education system. We are now providing a great deal of money for this system and looking to the future to produce young Australians who will be the fathers of our community in a very short period. 
The Government has also accepted the financial recommendations of the Schools Commission for government schools in broad terms but has modified the recommended distribution between the States of capital grants. This applies particularly to Queensland. This modification was made after consideration of the basis of the recommendation and the contribution and relating this to the existing pattern of grants in 1976. The Government considered that in the light of 1976 allocations, the recommended total of general recurrent and capital grants in Queensland would make it too difficult for that State to implement its planned programs for the whole of the 1977 year. The modified distribution of grants decided upon by this Government results in a $ 1 .4m addition to Queensland 's allocation for general capital grants offset against slight reductions in the allocations to some 4 other States. In the government school sector in Queensland the total of general support will enable the implementation of a program amounting to some $17.4 15m. Migrant and multicultural education, which is a very important program in Queensland, will receive an allocation of $450,000. Disadvantaged school projects in Queensland- I have one school, in my electorate, the Petrie Terrace State School, which was declared a disadvantaged school only recently- will receive a total of $ 1.47m. Expenditure on the special education general support program will amount to $ 1.29m. Capital grants, general and specific purposes grants, will total $22.7m this year. The total program for this financial year amounts to $43.325m. 
The non-government schools sector is strongly supported financially this year. There has been an increase in the size of the recommended general recurrent grant for the most needy primary schools from some $223 a pupil to $229 a pupil at average 1976 price levels. These schools cater for approximately 90 per cent of enrolments in the non-government primary school area. The Government also has accepted the Schools Commission recommendation that the level of grant per pupil for non-government schools be linked automatically in future years to the expenditure level per pupil in government schools. I think that this is a very important part of our total overall program. In level one schools, the 1976 allocation per pupil to primary schools was $76. In 1977, it will be $84. The allocations have been increased throughout the whole. 6 levels culminating in the allocation for level 6 being increased from $223 from 1976 to $229 for 1977, as I mentioned previously. In the secondary school area, the previous grant per child at level 6 was $355. That will rise to $367 in 1977. At level one, the allocation will rise from $ 1 1 3 in 1976 to $130 in 1977. The total non-government school program in Queensland will enable recurrent general support amounting to $22.2 18m. The allocation this year for migrant and multicultural education, disadvantaged school projects, special education general support projects and capital grants for general and specific purpose projects will total $26.434m. This is the sort of program for which I believe the Australian people elected the Government that we have. The children of Australia are our investment for the future. It is Australia's future. I support the Bills. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I think the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  summed up his speech in one of the words that he used- hogwash. For the shadow Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to say that only a few hundred people lost their jobs as a result of the decision made in December 1973 by the then Labor Government is absolute clap-trap. Thousands of people have been put out of jobs in this country by a decision which was made by the Labor Government. That is not the type of concern that this Government shows. The decisions made last night and announced in this House by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and in the Senate by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  are very important to the future of this country. 
The positive aspects of this decision are already being seen. After a few telephone conversations it has come to my attention that one manufacturer in a country town in Victoria will be increasing his employment from 50 people to 100 people. This will be followed on by the action of another manufacturer just outside Brisbane who between now and 1 February will increase by forty the number of people he is currently employing. Another manufacturer in Melbourne City itself till last night was not intending to employ 29 school leavers. Following the decision that was announced last night he is going to employ a further 3 1 school leavers. This decision is part of a series of decisions which this Government is taking to fix up the economic mess which we inherited on 13 December 1975. 1 am sick and tired of the crocodile tears which are shed in this Parliament by the Labor Party. It shows a complete lack of understanding, regard and concern for this nation and the people who have been employed here for so many wonderful years. I would like to quote from the editorial of the  Australian Financial Review  of Tuesday 7 December. In the debate this afternoon some outmoded and outdated policies have been announced. Some of these go back 18 years. The editorial reads: 
As the Governor of the Reserve Bank recently pointed out, 25 years ago, about 15 per cent of our labour forceemployed plus self-employed- worked in the rural sector. The proportion is now less than half of that figure . . . In 1949-50, 87 per cent of our exports were of rural products; in 1975-76, the break-up was 44 per cent rural, 38 per cent mineral, and 1 8 per cent manufactures. ' 
This shows a dramatic change. I am pleased to be part of the Government which is concerned about the unemployed people of Australia and about the industries which we believe have built up quite successfully over a number of years. One of the reasons that we have had the difficult position in relation to unemployment over the last few years is the decision taken by the previous Administration. One of the advantages of being in the Liberal Party is that it does not have a Caucus. I believe that the type of across the board decision which is made by the Labor Party does not show any degree of concern for the unemployed people in this country. The decision announced last night by the Minister shows a concern which has never been shown by the previous Government. The Labor Party's involement in 1973 was the darkest day in Australia's manufacturing history. It showed that had little understanding, little knowledge and little managerial responsibility. 
Sitting suspended from ti to 8 p.m. 
-I rejoin this debate this evening after having enjoyed a very pleasant dinner with the seventy-fivers and I would like to assure the House that we did not have any cake this evening. Some assertions have been made in relation to the so-called free trade in tariff areas. Certain aspects of the assertions which have been made on numerous occasions do not show the truth of the matter. In actual fact the free traders are not thinking in the long term context. The Government decision, announced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  last night looks at the long term situation. In the last few years we have seen a country, Japan, which, for a number of years has been considered an area of cheap labour, imposing for the first time in the latter part of 1975 quotas and tariffs on imported goods, particularly clothing. The second area of concern if we did not have protected industries in this country, is how we would obtain the goods that are supposed to be imported. It would be extremely difficult to get them through the demarcation disputes which have been occurring on the major wharf areas in Australia for some years. 
Only this year, for a period of 6 weeks, every container that arrived in this country was held up on the wharves. That meant that those people throughout the community who had business commitments were placed in a difficult situation of having orders to fill but not having the goods. The importance of the protected industries in this country has been that throughout the 1950s and 1960s and into the 1970s Australia has been able to supply to the Australian market goods which were manufactured by Australians, which were sold to Australians and which, for a number of years, until the changes to the export incentive schemes in 1973 and 1974, were exported throughout the world. Austraiian industry has created for itself a reputation for high efficiency. This has come about, particularly in the Australian market place, as a result of the very deep and important consideration of efficiency and high standards. The legacy of the previous Administration in one area, that is, the garment textile industry, was that in March of 1974 approximately 147 000 people were employed in that industry but as a result of decisions taken by the Labor Government the number of people employed in the industry were reduced to 116 000. 
-It was the tariff cut that was responsible for that drastic increase in the number of unemployed people. Allied with this was the fact that an unfair section of the trade union movement pushed wage demands beyond all comprehension. The situation has now been reached in Australia in which the average weekly wage paid is $47 a week more than the average weekly wage which is paid in the United States of America. At this stage we do not have the same level of productivity, which is necessary and which must come and will come in this country under the good management of this Government. It has been said on numerous occasions that the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade is something that should be taken into consideraton more and more. The GATT agreement has been conveniently forgotten by the United States, Sweden, France, England and West Germany on numerous occasions when nationals of those countries were in danger of losing their jobs. Only recently, beef quotas have been imposed in the United States and Japan contrary to GATT. 
In the aftermath of the Second World War and under the wise leadership of 2 great men,  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen, this nation has been built up with the introduction of a system of import replacement. That import replacement policy meant very simply that we manufactured goods in Australia and provided people who were employed in those industries with a reasonable standard of living, a reasonable wage and a degree of protection from nations in our immediate region and also around the world. That was the legacy that was passed on to the previous Administration in 1972. There was little or no unemployment and a very low inflation rate. After careful consideration, our tariff policies had made sure that industries within Australia were protected and were able to employ our fellow Australians. The academic theories to which I referred previously destroyed the jobs of numbers of people. They destroyed a number of industries and as a result of the cut in 1973, they created a situation in which some industries have been lost for a number of years. These industries have unfortunately moved offshore. However, the advantage of having industries offshore manufacturing in cheaper labour areas is only a short term advantage. 
The union movement in Australia is a very important part of our social and economic structure, and the conditions and wages which apply for our fellow Australians, determined as a result of negotiations between the unions and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, have created a climate in which, quite frankly, Australia is the envy of the world. The Liberal and National Country Parties upon coming to office on 14 December 1975, reinstated a partnership not only with the union movement but also with labour intensive industries. In the main, those industries are protected. Australia cannot compete with other areas throughout the world; nor should it. Our standard of living is unique to Australia and we do not need to lower our standard of living to prove a point. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister who announced the decision last night and the Minister in the other place have made a decision on this matter which is of vital importance to Australia's future and to its confidence. Industry today, under the new arrangements for tariffs, can go forward with a great deal of confidence. It can invest and produce with full expectations of a strong future. It must now follow the Government's lead and positively attack home markets. 
I am delighted with the response I have had from numerous people concerning this matter. I believe that Ministers concerned and the Cabinet as a whole have received responses welcoming the decision which was made in relation to continuing temporary assistance in the most important secondary manufacturing areas. It is with delight that I announce to the House the receipt of a telegram from the Womens Clothing Section of the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers which arrived in my office during the dinner recess. It says: 
On behalf of the womens apparel industries I applaud and congratulate you on the intelligent and realistic approach you have taken regarding devaluation and tariff I am certain that as the weeks go by most Australians will see the wisdom of your decision that will undoubtedly lead our country back from the Whitlam days of disaster and darkness. 
After I received that telegram I checked it out further. Those people have told me this evening that they will be going one step further. Their program in the New Year will be to employ 280 extra people in their 3 plants which are situated outside city areas in Victoria. At the present time about 13 per cent of the garment textile industry is situated outside the major city areas. This has been one of the means of keeping together a number of important country towns which rely on the industries which are located there. They rely on payments made to the people within the towns. I look forward with confidence to the fact that those people will continue to be employed. 
Tariffs have become an emotive issue on numerous occasions. I am deeply concerned that in certain quarters the understanding and the realisation of what the Government does with tariffs is being misconstrued and misunderstood. Tariffs must be, and have been for some hundreds of years, a means of protecting certain industries in certain countries. It has been the wise use of tariffs which has assured the future of the industries within those countries which need that degree of protection. I should like to refer to the situation in the foreseeable future in countries such as Japan and Hong Kong. Only recently in Hong Kong there was a 300 per cent wage increase. Admittedly, the wages paid in Hong Kong are much lower than the wages we pay in Australia. At the same time, that is a substantial increase in wages. That increase in wages already has put up the prices on most imported goods. Let us put Australia's position into perspective: We are not a big importer in the world market scene. We represent about 1 per cent of the total export market from Hong Kong in the garment and textile area and that includes a lot of areas which are not normally referred to. 
The future of our country must lie with tariffs. It must lie with protecting industries which, for a number of years, have seen fit to spend their capital in investing in difficult areas. But that would produce in our community a situation in which, in the event of a change of government in certain countries which are no longer favourably inclined to Australia and our way of politics, we would not have a source of supply. We must be able to withstand any type of economic strain placed on us in that situation. We must have the means in Australia and in our industries by which we can supply the needs that we must have in Australia. 
I am pleased that I have the opportunity to speak on these important Bills before the House and on the statement which implements the Government's decision. I believe it will create confidence in a number of areas in which, for the last 4 years, there has not been a great deal of confidence. The Government had a difficult decision to make in the last few weeks. That decision has been made and it is a wise decision. The legacy that we have had during the past few years has meant most decidedly that unless we made that decision the confidence which the people placed in this Government on 13 December 1975 would have not carried forward. I am pleased to say that as a supporter of the Government I am connected with this legislation and I am involved in a decision which will ensure the future of Australians and increased employment in a number of areas throughout the Commonwealth. I shall conclude my remarks at this stage because my friend and colleague from Queensland, the Deputy Whip, has requested that I do so to enable another debate to commence earlier tonight. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. What ships have been built at the State Dockyard at Newcastle over the past 5 years? What were the original contracted dates and actual delivery dates for those vessels completed? By what amount did the final prices of the vessels completed by the State Dockyard since 1 January 1972 exceed the original contract prices? What investment has been made by the New South Wales Government in new shipbuilding plant and machinery at the State Dockyard, Newcastle, in the last 5 years? Is the Minister able to indicate what time has been lost as a result of industrial disputes at the State Dockyard in, say, the last 2 years? Finally, can the Minister indicate how productivity in Australian shipyards compares with that overseas? 
-I support the Customs Tariff Validation Bill. I feel that it is about time that we stopped some of the nonsense which has been spoken for some time between 2 groups which have been trying to divide this country. I refer to the free trade group and the so-called protectionist group. For too long too many people have asserted that what is happening in this country is not good for the country. Tariffs are an historical means of protecting industries against unfair competition, against dumping, against low wages and against different standards of living which exist throughout the world. Tariffs are an extremely important means of keeping Australians in jobs. Tariffs are the means of keeping this Government and this country in a position which will ensure the future of our country. Australia- I say this deliberately to the free traders- is one nation. I am fed up and sick and tired of hearing the rubbish which has been spoken by a minority of people representing a minority of interests. Those people are extremely selfish. The free trade groups seek to divide this Australia of ours. I say to them very briefly: No protection, no jobs. I would like to hear what they intend doing with the people who do not have jobs and how they intend paying for those people who are unemployed. 
I think it is necessary to get the whole situation in correct perspective by going back to the period immediately after the Second World War. At that time we had come through a conflict and we found that we could not produce certain types of items which were necessary for our defence. We could not produce radios, torches or a whole range of items which are so necessary for our daily living. The man who led this country in a great government,  Sir Robert  Menzies-then Bob Menzies- got together a team of people and said: 'What are we going to do to ensure that this nation is not faced with the type of problem as we had during the conflict of 1939-45?' He worked with a group of people. They decided to adopt the program which became known as the import replacement policy. Under that scheme if an English or Hong Kong made radio was imported for 1 and it cost the Australian producer 30s. to make the same type of item a tariff of 10s. was imposed. That policy applied right across the length and breadth of our nation. Out of that we grew substantially in population. We were able to bring a number of migrants to this country and provide them with jobs. We built a number of industries which were so terribly important to the growth of this nation. 
One hears academic arguments that we have too many motor vehicle manufacturers in this country and that they should not be subsidised. Again I say that that is a selfish attitude by a group of people. Those people are saying: 'We do not want to pay $6,000 for a motor vehicle. We want to pay $2,500. In that way we will get a cheaper car . But what about the hundreds and thousands of people who will be thrown out of jobs? I ask those people to answer that question. During the 1950s a number of industries come to Australia. They brought their own capital. They brought their wealth. This resulted in a great degree of involvement by the Australian people in a number of new industries. This progressed during the 1960s. At the same time we had a mineral boom and the Australian became the envy of the world. 
On 2 December 1972 a disaster struck. That disaster was the voting into office of a Labor socialist government. We saw the academics unleashed and then, the academics were pushing aside the public servants who had been advising relevant people in this sector for a number of years. They presented an idea to the government of the day. In July 1973 a decision was made to cut tariffs across the board by 25 per cent. What that decision effectively meant was that we treated a Mini Minor in the same way as we treated a Rolls Royce. We treated the female shoe hand made on the Italian last in the same way as we treated the mainland China thong or the Hong Kong thong. It was like chalk and cheese- none had any relationship to the other. But that demonstrates the type of government we had. That Government had a lack of understanding of anything that was going on in this area. 
The effect of that decision was that the number of unemployed people of this country, which stood at 128 000 when the Labor Party came into government, rose dramatically. The figure kept on rising until the Labor Party was soundly defeated on 13 December 1975. That tariff decision of 1973 unfortunately started a chain reaction which has not yet completely stopped. That decision effectively destroyed a great number of our Australian industries. A great number of those industries were labour intensive. A great number of Australian businessmen who had worked hard and built businesses in the main from little or nothing had to decide whether to go ahead, fall back or leave the nation. I refer now to the difficult decision made by a number of people to go off-shore. That decision was made e 1974-75 period and the movement continued into the early part of 1976. I ask those people who went off-shore to reconsider their position. I ask those off-shore manufacturers to come back to Australia and to employ their fellow Australians once more. 
A second group of people bit the bullet. Those people continued in Australia and cut costs as much as they possibly could. They realised that as the flood of imports started to arrive they had an extremely difficult period ahead. I have met a number of these businessmen. In a lot of cases, they were migrant people who came to this country in the 1950s or in the late 1940s, with little or nothing. They came here and made their homes here. They worked hard and long and raised their children here. They established themselves in the Australian society. In the main they made a significant contribution to the Australian society by their culture, their dedication and hard work and their culinary tastes which they brought to Australia from their own country. The third group of people were ones who could not survive, who could not go off-shore and who unfortunately went broke or closed their businesses. They put the dust covers on their machines. Those people are the ones who I believe are the most difficult people to face today because they realise that what they worked towards for a number of years has been completely and utterly destroyed. 
I am deeply concerned that a number of people in the labour-intensive industries, the protected industries, do not feel that they have confidence in the Government today. I must say to them that this is a good government which is terribly concerned for their future. It is making every effort to right the wrongs as soon as possible, to ensure that what went on in the past is corrected and to ensure that the future which is being mapped out now and in the near future, in announcements, will be something on which they can totally rely. I am deeply pleased to say that I am a member of this side, with a Prime Minister who has shown by public statements his concern in this area, with 2 Ministers- one in this House and one in the other House- who have not only shown their concern but have gone further and announced decisions to ensure the future of this industry. 
Not all the decisions have been announced yet. Not all the tariffs or quotas or the degree of protection which will be afforded have been announced because a number of reports must be forthcoming before the decisions can be made in the Cabinet. Then they will flow through to the Australian people. It will help the people who have placed their confidence in this country and in labour-intensive industries, who know that they cannot compete with Asian nations which can produce goods cheaply because the largest amount of money that is paid for a 40-hour week is $5 or $6. Those nations do not have the standard of living that we have. While I am on this subject, I believe it is terribly relevant that we get the situation in perspective. The average weekly wage paid in Australia is one of the highest in the world. The average weekly wage in Australia is currently $47 a week more than the average weekly wage in the United States of America. We are the only country in which workers get 4 weeks paid annual leave. We are the only country in which a per cent loading is paid on annual leave. We are the only country which has more than 5 statutory holidays per year. We achieved those distinctions with the support of the socialist Labor Party, with the support of left wing unions which want to see how much thenworkers can get by doing as little as possible. 
If we agree to that type of wage structure, that entitlement to holidays, that loading, the standards to which we have been accustomed, etc., we must pay for them. That is a simple, basic fact of life. We must pay for them. The sooner people who want to see protected industries destroyed realise that, the sooner we will get on with the job of employing fellow Australians who were placed on the unemployment lists as a result of the academic decisions of the previous Government. In 1972 in this country 8 out of 10 people on the average weekly wage of $80 a week could afford to buy a home and service the loan. In 1975, after 3 years of rule by the Labor Party, the rate had slipped to 2 out of every 10 people on the average weekly wage of over $165 a week. That is the legacy of academic theorising, and that is the legacy of not protecting our industries. 
Assertions have been made in this place and in the Press that the protected industries, by virtue of their protection, have made sweetheart agreements with the trade unions. I turn to the area in which sweetheart agreements have been made with the trade unions. I refer to the primary producing area, particularly the mining industry. Employees in the mining industry live in an airconditioned home which is serviced free. They are being paid big money every week. Next door people have been involved in the farming industry for some considerable time. They cannot afford to pay a giant salary or provide a magnificent air-conditioned home. Recently I read with interest about a fellow who drives a train. He works in an air-conditioned cabin. He lives in an air-conditioned home.  His  children attend a free school. He has a crib which is supplied by the company and which includes a choice of smoked salmon, roast turkey, roast duck, a choice of 3 fruit juices or tea or coffee. That is supplied to a man who drives a train from an airconditioned cabin. He also gets $600 a fortnight. He lives in a completely rent-free home. People such as this man are claiming that in certain areas, in the protected industries, there are sweetheart agreements. 
-I feel that some of the people from the Opposition who are interjecting should earn their pay by driving one of these trains. They should find out what these men are doing. Because of the high wage structure and the benefits which have been offered for a considerable period, certain industries have now reached the stage at which the margin per ton of certain types of ore that are being exported is down to 40c. If the wages that are demanded by certain unions are paid and if the terms and conditions that are put forward are accepted, those industries would have to close because they could not afford to pay. 
I return to the labour-intensive industries. We continually hear the argument that we must get involved with other countries because of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. I bring to the attention of the House the fact that countries which are signatories to GATT have never stuck to it when people in their countries have been unemployed. Recently Canada decided to solve its unemployment problem, particularly in the garment textile area. It solved the problem all right It shut the door on all imports. That really fixed up everybody. Australia still represents only a very small market. If we imported from Hong Kong every item of clothing for men, women, girls and boys, we would represent less than one per cent of the total export market of Hong Kong. We are not big. People are prepared to say: 'Let us close down that industry because of its degree of protection. Let us put those people out of jobs. Let us ensure that those people who have been working in the industry for a number of years, who are specialised in the industry and who want to stay in the industry, are put out of jobs. We do not care about them. We will put them out of work. We will adopt the selfish approach. We will ensure that those people who could be employed or who should be employed are not employed. ' 
-The Labor Government not only did that, my friend and colleague, but it also went further because it destroyed the infrastructure of these very important labour intensive industries of Australia. The wage-cost spiral, which was deliberately set about by that Government, pushed the costs to such a high extent that people all of a sudden saw the vast difference in prices. For example, a garment which sold in Hong Kong for 85 cents might be manufactured and retailed in Australia for $3.99.  (Extension of time granted).  Australia has a great future but it must be tied up with the people who are employed in our industries. 
The problems of unemployment which we inherited when we took office have been solved to a large degree. We have cut the rate of unemployment which had risen dramatically through 1973, 1974 and 1975. We stopped it at the peak of 354 000 people. The future of our nation is an important issue. I believe that we must continue to be involved with legislation relating to tariffs and the protection of industries. We must ensure that we give people guidelines for the future. One of the ways in which we can do this is by ensuring that they are protected. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that vaccinations and inoculations for overseas travellers are being provided free of charge at Department of Health offices in Brisbane and elsewhere in Australia? As people travelling overseas can quite obviously afford a charge for this service, will the Minister impose a fee for service similar to that which is recommended by the Australian Medical Association? 
-Has the Prime Minister seen recent Press reports that several major groups have reported increased signs of economic recovery? Do these reports confirm the Government's statements on economic progress? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, is further to my question to him some time ago relating to vaccinations and innoculations being provided free of charge by Commonwealth health establishments to overseas travellers. I ask whether the Minister has determined that a fee for service should be charged. If so, how much will it be and when will the cost to the Australian taxpayer be eliminated? 
-Some of the debate this afternoon unfortunately has reflected a very simplistic approach to a very difficult problem which this country must face not only today but also in the future. The higher standards of living which the Australian people enjoy requires that our individual approach to bounties, tariffs and quotas must be to ensure that Australians keep their jobs. I commend the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  on his introduction of tariff proposals to change the present position, which has existed over the last few years, in relation to imports from New Zealand. I will refer to that matter at a later time. 
Unfortunately, the assertion that we can compete in the world market place with our standards of living and cost structure is not true. To ensure that we remain in the textile and apparel manufacturing sector and can compete in the market place within this country and outside, we need to ensure that bounties are used to achieve that end. But we should realise that we must have an employment situation in which we can utilise the benefits of tariffs and quotas. A member on this side of the House mentioned that a certain person in his electorate was looking at horses and at the price of hay for those horses. I refer the honourable member to an article which appeared recently in the  Sydney Morning Herald  which stated that one of the largest breweries in England had decided to take that important step. It has built stables and now has horses, and is finding them much cheaper than using the horseless carriage. Perhaps certain people in the honourable member's electorate who live outside the city area- outside the fiercely competitive market place which exists in the garment and textile area- could take note of the brewery in England. I think they would find that horses are indeed very efficient and considerably cheaper than motor transport. 
There has been a dramatic increase in the last few years in imports of bed linen and unraised cotton sheetings. Imports of bed linens have increased by 88.5 per cent and in unraised cotton sheeting by 47. 1 per cent. I believe that that is a very important increase in an area about which we must be very concerned for the simple reason that every time we allow an increase in imports into this country we put in jeopardy the jobs of some Australians. Over 250 000 people are indirectly involved in the garment and textile manufacturing industry in this country. Those people are vital to the future of our country. But what has happened in the last few years, particularly as a result of the previous Government's decision in July 1973 to cut the tariff by 25 per cent? In January 1974 there were 54 200 people employed in this country in the manufacture of textiles. There were 91 200 people in the knitting mills and clothing area, and the total employed in textiles and apparel was 146 400. The number of employees in the footwear area amounted to 17 400. 
The effects of the July 1973 decision began to appear in the early part of 1974 and by December 1974 the number of people employed in the textile area had dropped to 40 900. In the knitting mills and clothing area there was a considerable drop from 91000 to 76 600, and a drop in the total number of people employed from 146 400 to 117 500 by December 1975. The same degree of concern was obvious in the footwear area because the January 1974 figure of 17 400 had been reduced to 12 800 by the end of the year. That dramatic decrease continued in the following months until we had a change of government in December 1975. In the textile area the employment figure rose from 40 000 to 45 000, in the knitting nulls and clothing area it rose from 76 000 to 77 000, and there was a total increase from 117 000 to 122 000 in the textile and apparel area. In footwear there was an increase in employment from 12 800 to 14 800, which reflected a mark of confidence in the election of the Government of which I am a supporter. 
Continued employment in this area, I believe, is very important to the future of our country. It is also important for the decentralised areas of Australia. Over 1 5 per cent of the total number of people employed in the apparel and textile industry of Australia live and work in decentralised areas. In the last 3 years, in the midst of the difficulties which have been experienced in the various primary producing areas due to low meat and wool prices, the farmers who have continued despite the difficulties have had the support of an industry which pays its employees weekly. In turn, those employees pay the local retailers, the transport organisations and the travel companies immediately they purchase goods in a small town. That has assisted traders in those towns to extend credit until the primary producers outside the town were in a position to meet the debts that had accrued because of low prices, and I think that is most important. Once the primary producer's prices increase he is back on his feet, but during the period of time when he is not able to meet his commitments he is greatly assisted by the decentralised operation of the garment and textile industry. 
There has been considerable discussion at various times about the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, but a lot of people fail to realise that we are the one country amongst the western industrialised nations, and even amongst the developing nations, which is actually being used, and quite unfairly used. At the present time the United States of America imports 1 5 per cent of its woven and ready made garments under the GATT agreement and has 85 per cent protection for its home industry. The European Economic Community has a 10 per cent import content and a 90 per cent local content, which is almost total protection. Recently the Canadian Government decided to stop the rate of unemployment which was affecting this section of its economy and moved very swiftly and surely, to the extent that it now has a 20 per cent import content and an 80 per cent local manufactured content. 
What is Australia's position? Where do we stand in this area? How do we compare with nations with whom we trade which have a similar standard of living to ours? Is our position similar? No, unfortunately, it is not. We have a 60 per cent import content and a 40 per cent local manufactured content. Quite frankly, I believe that the various decision making processes which are necessary in any good government must be hastened to ensure that that situation does not continue. It is not a viable proposition for any organisation to have over 50 per cent of its plant and equipment lying idle, and that is what has happened in a number of areas. 
Recently we have read with amazement about a number of organisations which have been well known brand and trading names in this country for years. I think that members on both sides of the House, as younger men and children, wore certain types of clothing which were manufactured in Australia under Australian brand names which over the years had reached an extremely high quality and standard. We now have a situation where major organisations are closing down, and in speaking in this debate today I am deeply disappointed to have to say that that is an unfortunate occurrence which is creating a problem within the Australian community. We are putting ourselves in serious jeopardy for the future. We have to ensure that organisations which have worked hard and which have large investments in plant and equipment continue to exist within our social framework and economic structure. If we are to have some restructuring, let us announce the restructuring and get on with it. At least we should give the individual organisations at present involved in the garment and textile manufacturing area an opportunity to say what their future will be. I believe that we must engender confidence to reverse the problems which we inherited. Unfortunately, it will not take just 12 months to overcome these problems. It will take a considerably longer period. 
For too long we have taken a selfish attitude in this area. For too long we have said: 'Why cannot we have a cheap motor car from overseas? Why cannot we have a cheaper garment from overseas?' This was the academic theory. In actual practice, the individual retailing organisations in this country followed a different course. For example, if they purchased a garment from an Australian manufacturer for $5 they retailed it for $10. There would be a 100 per cent markup. But if that item was purchased from overseas at $2, the retailers did not reduce the cost to the Australian consumer. They retailed that item at $10 with a 500 per cent markup. I say this quite deliberately: I have seen the invoicing in regard to a number of items over the last few years and again recently. This is the type of thing that has gone on. The previous Government was advised by various academics that if it reduced the cost of an item by importing it from cheap labour countries, that would solve a problem. It was told that that saving would be passed on to the Australia consumer. That has not been so. Unfortunately, we have seen a continuing trend develop of increases in imports. This has meant that Austalians have been taken out of the industry and left on the shelf. This has happened because a large percentage of female employees is engaged in the work force of the garment and textile industry. These women, who have enjoyed the extra comforts which their hours of work have provided, are now in a situation in which they are finding it extremely difficult to make ends meet. 
I do not believe that the problems we face in this area can be solved quickly. They will be solved over a period and they will be solved by diligence. Unfortunately, it takes some considerable time to phase in new plant and equipment, to change the production schedule and to involve any organisation in a new marketing area. We have heard also over a period that the protection of this industry has been provided at a cost to other sections of industry. I am afraid that this assertion cannot be left any longer in this airy fairy academic area. It has been said that the cost of protecting the Australian clothing industry was $184m annually in gross subsidy equivalent terms. This is an annual cost and is a figure that certain sections of the community view as being too high both in absolute terms and in comparison with other industries. However, to talk in terms of the absolute cost of protection as being $184m annually is just as dangerous as the unions stating that the $100m profit of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is too high. Such figures only derive any significance when they are related to other indicators. In the case of BHP, if the figure is related to funds employed a ratio of around  Vh  per cent or 3 per cent is obtained. If all things were equal and shareholders could retain their funds, they would be better off placing their money in a bank savings account. 
In the case of protection for the industry, it is considered quite valid for the annual cost to be related to the value of retail sales of clothing as it is at this level that the consumer pays, so called, for industry protection. The value of retail sales in 1971-72 was assessed at $1,656 billion. This means that the cost of protection represents the equivalent of 11.1 per cent of retail sales in 1971-72 or the equivalent of 1 1.1c of the retail sales dollar level. The question therefore resolves itself into the following considerations: Is this cost excessive in relation to the value of the industry's contribution to the Australian economy? If the answer to the above question is yes, what are the alternative industries into which the human and capital resources of this industry can be channelled? What are the prospects of finding these industries? How easily can the changes that are considered desirable be made? 
An overall examination of the first question reveals that the value added to the industry in 1971-72 was $427.5m. The value added by the suppliers to this industry in 1971-72 was $224.4m. The total value added in 1971-72 was $65 1.9m. In finding this value added a mutliplier of 1.4 is used. This is a conservative estimate of multiplying factors which can be used to assess the total effective expenditure. The total effect of the 1971-72 value added is $9 12.7m. Deducting the commissions of assessment of the cost of the industry protection, the net value added by this industry in 1971-72 is assessed at $728.7m. This brief examination reveals that this industry's net contribution to the Australian economy in 1971-72 was 4 times the cost of protection. That situation has changed dramatically. The contribution to the Australian economy has increased to 6 times for the 1975-76 financial year. 
Whilst the figures for the 1971-72 financial year may be considered low in relative terms, there remains the undisputed fact that the industry is making a net contribution to the Australian economy which is considerably in excess of the imputed cost of protection. From the experience of members in the industry, it is extremely difficult and almost impossible to envisage alternative industries with a ratio of net value added to cost of protection that is in excess of four that could have served also 130 000 people engaged in the production of apparel and related items. The new opportunities cannot be seen by either academics or the entrepreneurs with the funds available for investment. I consider that this is a terribly important question. I believe that this total area is one which must be under considerable review at all times. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Will the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs outline the restrictions imposed by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on the appointment of teachers from overseas sources to independent schools in Australia? Is the Minister aware that these restrictions do not apply at tertiary or university level? Will the Minister advise as to the reason for the exemption of university staff and how long the restrictions will remain in force? 
I believe there is a very simple and clear explanation as to why we are losing people and putting them onto the unemployment lists. This explanation will become clear when the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  looks at the problems which face this nation, particularly the problems facing the textile and outer wear industries. We have 14 million people in this country. Our population has not increased dramatically in the last 5 years. 
I have some figures relating to the 3 areas of imports- men's outer wear, women's woven apparel and knitwear excluding tops. In our great wisdom we allowed 3.5 million units of men's outer wear to come into this country in 1975. In 1976, with even greater stupidity, we allowed that number to increase to 6.4 million units. This represented an increase of 83.5 per cent. In 1975 4.7 million units of women's woven apparel entered this country. In 1976 the number of units increased by 1 7 per cent to 5.5 million. In 1975 3 million units of knitwear, excluding tops, entered this country and in 1976 this number increased by 68.5 per cent to 5.1 million units. These are not my figures. They are figures that I have researched based on the Import Watch Figures of tariff quota items produced only for the Department of Industry and Commerce. I have compared the imports for the 6 months to December 1976 with the imports for the same period in 1975. To make the situation even worse, it is believed that importers since receiving quotas in February will be bringing in the majority of the full year's allocation in the first 6 months of the quota period. This will result in an over-supply situation in the next few months. It will create a false short fall in supply in succeeding months. Every time we increase the importation of garments which could be produced in this country, we are creating a situation which is guaranteed to lose our fellow Australians jobs. We are doing this with a great lack of concern for those people who have invested their life and their life's work in this industry, for the communication which they have built up with a group of employees over 20 and 30 years and also for the investment of considerable moneys over a period of time. We are putting ourselves in an invidious situation. 
We are the joke of the rest of the world. I suggest that we should compare ourselves with our major trading partners to see who have protection and who have quotas. Japan, United States of America, the European Economic Community, Sweden, Canada and Britain have protection and quotas. Sweden tried to free trade for a few years but it found out that that was a disaster and it brought down quotas like we have never seen before. In Australia 40 per cent of our manufactured goods are made in this country while 60 per cent of our manufactured goods are imported. America has a ratio of 85/15 and the European Economic Community has 90/10. I could go on. We are the laughing stock of the world because we are the highest importer, per head of population, of overseas garments. Every time we increase a quota and every time we decrease a tariff we affect our industries which are efficient and which are considered to be the best in the world. Let us take the example of a man's shirt produced in Australia. It is produced in half the time that it takes in Hong Kong. 
There are 2 courses of action to be taken in this area. The first is protection and the second is free trade. I shall paint the bleak picture of the course which is being advocated by a minority of unthinking and unfair members who are not concerned with the future of industries within Australia. They are free traders. Free trade means that we will destroy not only the people who are being protected but also the industries supporting those protected industries. Contrary to popular opinion, not all people involved in the protected industry area are in actual fact being protected. A number of protected industries are serviced by Australian industries which do not have any protection whatsoever. If we went ahead and free traded we would destroy those industries and the industries which service them. That would mean that we would have a huge unemployment problem for which the Australian taxpayer would have to pay. If we look at the amount of money provided to a man with 2 children- the figures have been frequently quoted by various people in this place- and at the amount of money which it is claimed by various people in this place is the cost of protection, we find that it is far more expensive to pay a person unemployment benefit, service his family with the $7.50 allowance per child, and supply the free services which are provided under the social welfare program than it is to have a protected industry. When people are in a situation of paying taxes, they are making a contribution to the Australian community. If they do not have a job they do not contribute and are not involved. 
We cannot compete with cheap Asian countries. We do not have a wage rate of $6 or $10 for a 44-hour week. I suggest that those people who are advocating free trade should put their money where their mouths are and advocate publicly in this place and in their electorates that we should reduce the amount of money being paid to Australian workers and increase the amount of time that people are actually working, and we will see how long they survive in that type of environment. Basically, that is what they are trying to do. 
-I congratulate the honourable member for Prospect, who is interjecting, on his move to the front bench. If there was a club for lucky mugs and big shots, he would have life membership. Because of the situation in Australia, every day under the free trade policies which are being advocated Australian brand names, which every honourable member has used in his lifetime, are disappearing. We have a commitment to world markets. If we compare our commitment to those countries with whom we are trading at the present time with those countries which I mentioned previously, we will see that we are in a position which is creating untold problems every time we allow cheap imports to arrive in this country. 
The alternative to that situation is protection. What does protection really mean at this time? Let us look at the situation since July 1973 when the then Australian Labor Party Government stupidly, unfittingly and thoughtlessly introduced a 25 per cent tariff reduction. We have eliminated the inefficient sector of Australian protected industries. People now manufacture with efficient machinery, with efficient methods and with an efficiency which I, as an Australian, am proud to observe. I see this when I go to various factories and look at the types of plant and equipment which they have. But we have now got to the stage where we cannot go any further because manufacturers have cut down and have cut as many corners as possible. It has got to the stage, which was recently reported by the Textile Council, where employment in the industry is continuing to fall by some 1200 people per month. The increase in unemployment in this industry from January 1976 to June 1977 will be nearer 20 000 people with many more people working part time. There is a strong possibility of the retrenchment rate increasing. 
I shall cite some figures which are taken from a survey summary of the employment and production of various firms. Again, 1972-73 is the base year so I shall take that year. The rate of production was 100 per cent and the level of employment was 100 per cent. In 1973-74 the rate of production was 95 per cent and the level of employment was 95 per cent. That is when the Australian Labor Party's 25 per cent tariff reduction started to bite. Following that, in 1974-75 there was a 70 per cent rate of production and a 76 per cent level of employment. In 1975-76 the rate of production went to 55 per cent and the level of employment to 65 per cent. In 1976-77 the level of production is 33 per cent and the level of employment is 44 per cent. For the 6 months January to June 1977, with the forecast orders for May and June available, the figure is down on 1976 by 38 per cent in relation to production and the figure for January 1 976 is down on the figure for June 1 975 by 37 per cent in relation to employment. The figure for April 1 977 compared with the figure for June 1 976 is down 3 1 per cent in relation to employment. 
We have a situation where we can ensure that strong industries in this country maintain employment. We can ensure that the firms which are left after the decimation of the last 4 yearsthat is since the July 1973 decision by the then Government- will immediately increase employment if we say to them: 'You gentlemen have a future'. That future can be clearly enumerated by stating that we will give those firms or industries an opportunity in the next 3 years to operate in an area which will involve protection. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-When we were elected to government on 13 December 1975, we unfortunately inherited a vast number of economic problems including the highest level of unemployment that Australia has ever seen since Federation. 
-It is not bigger now, actually. One of the problem areas we inherited after the series of mismanagement decisions which had been made during the 3 years of the socialist rule in this country was the garment and textile area. The private final consumption seasonally adjusted quarter ended graph which is freely available from the Parliamentary Library and other areas shows how the problem faced by the people who are involved in this area of protected industries in Australia was compounded. Since 1971-72, consumers have made slight economies in their expenditure on tobacco and alcohol to the extent of 0.3 per cent. Since 197 1-72, the dwelling rent component has grown significantly from 12.9 per cent to 15.3 per cent of private consumption. Expenditure on household durables has expanded from 7.5 per cent to 9 per cent of private consumption. Some economies in expenditure on motor vehicles have occurred since 1971-72. They amounted to about 0.4 per cent. Expenditure on other goods and services has been maintained. 
On the other hand, significant cuts in private consumption have occurred since 1971-72. Food expenditure has declined from 18.7 per cent in 1971-72 to 16.8 per cent in 1976-77. Expenditure on clothing and footwear has declined from 9.2 per cent to 8.2 per cent over the same period. These points indicate most strongly that whilst consumers have been forced to increase or have voluntarily increased their expenditure in certain areas they have been prepared to make significant economies in 2 areas. One encompasses the area of clothing and footwear. Again, the long term nature of the decline in the proportion of private consumption expenditure devoted to clothing and footwear provides clear indication that this pattern of consumer spending will not be altered in the short term. These factors relating to the psychology of expenditure by individuals in the community, taken in conjunction with the shape of the demand curve for clothing and footwear, together with the consideration of the other factors referred to earlier, provide the basis for my assessment that the demand for clothing will continue at depressed levels and that there will be no sustained lift in demand for footwear or clothing during the balance of 1977 or the first half of 1978. 
Anybody involved in the area of garment, textile and apparel manufacture realises that the bigger the production run is the cheaper is the unit produced. What has happened in a number of areas is that through the increase in imports the amount of production runs which a manufacturer could undertake has decreased. Consequently, there has been an increase in the price of the Australian made goods out of all proportion to what the normal cost would have been if the industry had a guaranteed protected section of the Australian market. This is terribly important. The figures I cited in the early part of my speech indicated that if the importation of outer knitted garments was increased by 60 per cent to 80 per cent, we would be taking away from the Australian manufacturer the potential orders which he would normally have achieved. It is vital, therefore, that we give the Australian industry an opportunity to operate sensibly with a fair degree of protection which will ensure that the future of the industry and the future of the Australians employed in it will be faced with confidence. 
Some people have said that if this occurred, we would have a problem in that the industry would not get back on its feet because certain areas of the industry are incapable of rejuvenating themselves. I would like to put the relevant facts that have been given to me in a survey which was undertaken during April 1977. Some 40 companies replied to a questionnaire. These companies ranged from small organisations to large organisations. The first question asked in the survey sought the number of employees required to be re-employed to achieve full plant loading, the existing capacity utilised and the times required to bring plant back to full capacity. These are 3 very important areas. We have heard previously in the Parliament and in this debate today the assertion that if industry protection were provided we would not actually increase the number of people employed. I can put the lie to that immediately. In total, some 40 returns were completed satisfactorily and were analysed. The results were as follows: In respect of employment and re-employment to achieve 100 percent plant loadings it was found that as at 3 1 March 1 977 the companies surveyed employed 5890 people. The additional staff required to achieve 100 per cent plant loading for these companies was 226 1 people. The percentage increase in staff needed to achieve plant loading was 38.4 per cent. I turn to deal with the plant capacity utilisation. The capacity not being used as at 31 March 1977 was 36.8 per cent; the capacity utilisation as at 3 1 March 1977 was 63.2 per cent. The correlation between the unused plant is strong and provides substantiation of both figures. The capacity utilisation figure derived from this survey also correlates strongly with the capacity utilisation figure of 63.8 per cent derived from the broader base state of the industry survey dated March 1977. This again substantiates the accuracy of the information. 
In regard to the time required to reactivate unused plant, the survey showed that the weighted average time required to re-employ sufficient staff to achieve full plant loadings was 8.95 weeks. I believe that these results clearly show that within 8.95 weeks there could be an addition of 36.8 per cent production capacity. These survey results clearly indicate that with normal lead times- that is about 12 to 14 weeks- local industry could expand operations to meet higher levels of demand from the retail sector. Should the retailers for once play the game- I must admit that in this area they have not been playing the game over the last few years- it could give local industry the lead time normally given to overseas manufacturers, which is 9 months. If this were done, plant capacity could very comfortably be brought into line with demand and we would decrease the number of Australians who are currently unemployed. They would be re-employed and we would be doing something which we should have been doing for some time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development seen or heard a statement which claimed that uranium and nuclear power is the most violent source of energy known to humanity? Can the Minister say whether the statement is correct? 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. When will the Commonwealth Government make a decision on financial support for the 1982 Commonwealth Games to be held in Brisbane? I ask the question in view of the interest of Queensland people in this great event. 
I rise tonight to discuss some of the relevant and pertinent facts about one of Australia's most disruptive unions, which is filled with officials who have a high degree of expertise in telling lies to the Australian community. Throughout the months leading up to my making this statement in the House tonight this union has caused a great deal of disruption, hardship and unnecessary provocation in areas which are related to its supposed area of control. That union is the Seamen's Union. 
The Utah Company of America, which has been assisting the Australian community by paying huge taxes, has been maliciously criticised and unfairly castigated by a group of people who have as their main concern their own ends and as their last concern the future of Australia. They have no concern for their fellow Australians and they are the scabs of the Australian trade union movement. A pamphlet which has been put out criticising Utah is full of lies and distortions of facts and truth. It is claimed that there is a mere 5c per tonne royalty payment and charge on coal which is exported from Australia from Utah holdings. The truth of the matter is that there is a $1.20 per tonne royalty and the total royalties which were paid to the Queensland Government last year were $ 1 8.94m. The pamphlet which has been put out by this malicious union claims that only $600,000 was given in coal export royalties in 1976 and that in 1977 the total amount which the Queensland Government would receive in royalty payments would be less than Sim. The truth of the matter is that over $25m will be paid in royalties for coal to the Queensland Government in 1977. 
Ostensibly the reason for these vicious and unfair accusations against a company which has done a great deal to assist Australia is to ensure that the Spanish seamen who are presently manning the ships which are owned by the Utah company are accorded different wages, terms and conditions. The Seamen's Union claims: 
The low wage Spanish seamen should have their wages increased to accepted international standards. 
I say to this House and to those people of Australia who are concerned about the actions of this unfair union that the Utah Co is presently paying International Transport Federation rates of pay and conditions and that the average wage of these seamen is $ A9.000 per annum tax free. That is far more than Australian seamen would be getting if they were working under the awards which they believe are necessary. The people who do not want to go on to Australian wages are the Spanish seamen because in fact they would be getting less money and their terms and conditions of employment would be far less attractive than they are at present Also, under the International Transport Federation rates of pay - 
-Also, under the International Transport Federation rates of pay agreement and the agreement which has been reached with the Spanish seamen, the employer-that is, Utah-pays the tax of the Spanish seamen. The Spanish seamen are way ahead. The Seamen's Union has been told this but it is refusing to drop this matter. A lot of people do not realise - 
-In Moranbah, a mining town in Queensland, $5 per family rate is applicable - 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.42)-Ever since I entered this Parliament I have adopted the practice that when I am confronted with an untrue statement I put forward a true statement. I feel that there was never more necessity for me to adopt this practice than this evening because of the radio broadcast by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  I refer to the relevant section of that broadcast. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said: 
One example is that of the electorate of Riverina held for the National Country Party by John Sullivan. Under the new proposals, that electorate will increase in size  Vh  times from 101,000 to 254,000 square kilometres. The member who represents the electorate will have added to his responsibilities the task of representing a huge additional area of country dominated by the big and important mining city of Broken Hill. I would say that both John Sullivan and the Labor Party's Jack FitzPatrick, member for Darling, both are completely occupied in coping with the massive task of representing their existing electorates. It is beyond me that anyone could reasonably suggest that it will be possible for one man to represent what will virtually be the two existing electorates rolled into one. 
I want to point out where this statement is incorrect The  Deputy  Prime Minister said that the member who represents the new electorate will have the added responsibility of representing a huge additional area. This is not true. At present the Darling electorate is 343,543 square kilometres and the proposed new electorate of Riverina will be only 254,000 square kilometres. Also, it will not be dominated by Broken Hill. If anyone cares to look at my contribution in this Parliament they will see that I have been dominated by nothing but my desire to give good service to the people I represent. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said: 
It is beyond me that anyone could reasonably suggest that it will be possible for one man to represent what will virtually be the two existing electorates rolled into one. 
That is another untruth. Sixty-five per cent of the Darling electorate has gone into Gwydir and only 35 per cent into Riverina. So the new electorate is still much less than the electorate I am serving at present. The Deputy Prime Minister has already condemned some of the members of his own National Country Party because he has made the statement that they could not serve an electorate of 254,000 square kilometres. Let me show the areas which some of them are serving. The electorate of Leichhardt is 406,630 square kilometres while the electorate of Maranoa is 503,523 square kilometres. The Kennedy electorate is 641,000 square kilometres, the Grey electorate is 505,000 square kilometres while the Kalgoorlie electorate is 2,271,379 square kilometres. 
I believe that this statement was made for a purpose. I would like the people to examine the service which I have given to them by looking at the electoral figures for Bourke, which is miles from Broken Hill. They can look at the figures for Warren and at Coonamble also. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has made his usual barrage of criticism. He contributed nothing positive to this very important debate which is taking place tonight. I should like to say something about a comment which he continually made tonight. There is no conflict between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  We work as a government of unity not a government of disunity, as we saw between the years 1972 and 1975. 
-No, but that is okay because I could still read the papers and see what was going on. One of the reasons why I was elected was what you mugs did. I believe the Department of Foreign Affairs is a very important department. The allocation of $464m to that Department shows that this Government is deeply concerned about the important areas which that Department covers. Few people realise exactly how important the Department of Foreign Affairs is. It is Australia's front Une throughout the world. Australia as a nation- unlike some of the honourable members in opposition- is no longer insulated from the rest of the world. We have instant communications. Today we have jet travel whereby one can reach anywhere in the world within 24 hours. Australia relies very much upon overseas investments. 
Australia's present way of life differs greatly from that of the way of life of the pre-Second World War days or even of 20 years ago. Today Australia is intimately linked with the rest of the world. Trade alone is responsible for over 26 per cent of our gross domestic product, compared with 13 per cent in the United States of America. Australia 's economy relies heavily on overseas investments. Its labour force needs migrant skills and its industries need imported technology. Tourism and advances in communications have also played a considerable part in bringing Australia and individual Australians in closer touch with the rest of the world and the world's events. 
Not only have Australia's overseas economic links strengthened and diversified but also its political ties. Before 1945 a handful of European powers dominated and set the agenda of world and even regional events. Now there are over 140 members of the United Nations. Some 16 independent States and several dependent countries lie within a 3,000 mile radius of our country. 
Australia has contact with most of these countries, to a greater or lesser extent, in a bilateral and a multilateral context. The marked increase in multilateral diplomacy in particular and in the institutions serving it has played an important part in Australia becoming a fully participating member of the world community. Today there is scarcely an Australian whose life is not affected by Australia's foreign relations in one way or another. In turn, this has prompted a much wider public interest in foreign affairs. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs is served by a group of 1,345 very dedicated men and women drawn from many departments. The Department employs 2,200 locally engaged people in over 100 countries outside Australia 
It services, looks after and controls 63 embassies and high commissions throughout the world. I am very pleased to belong to a Government which has a very dedicated Minister and which has a group of people in the Department who have ensured that Australia is becoming better known. The trade links we have forged in many areas are significant to the future of this country. Some of the decisions which are being made for Australia are no longer simple. Of importance are communications, trade and tourism with the developing nations of South East Asia, the Pacific, our old friends with whom we have links in Europe, the Commonwealth, Japan and North America. In a number of areas Australia necessarily, therefore, has had to think very carefully before it has made decisions which would affect the lives of Australians not only now but also in the future. Australia's embassies make many and varied decisions in relation to various aspects of economic and financial trade matters, trade aid, human rights, international law and nuclear safeguards. 
I congratulate the Prime Minister on his decision which was announced tonight to appoint  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox to be the AmbassadoratLarge. I wish our new Ambassador all the best in the very difficult task of ensuring that when we sell our uranium to the world which desperately needs it that we, as a nation, will be part of the worldwide scene. This will ensure that countries which do not have the degree of energy resources which we have will be assisted. Recently I saw a report in Italy that if that country had a stoppage of supply of energy for only three weeks, some 10 million people would be out of a job. That country Supplies from its own resources only 12 per cent of its energy needs. This is one area in which we, as a nation with 20 per cent of the world's uranium resources, Will be able to assist. The people who have forged links with the people who work in Italy and with its Government are members of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
There are many other areas which officers of the Department look after. These include civil aviation, cultural affairs, refugee problems, immigration, health, drug problems, travellers in distress, disaster relief, information services and numerous other responsibilities of government. Some embassies may also be engaged almost permanently in the greatly expanding network of multilateral conferences and international issues. A great deal of extra work has been placed on our embassies and high commissions in the last few years because of the dramatic increase in the number of Australians who are going overseas and realising what a truly wonderful country we have now that a Liberal-National Country Party Coalition Government is back in power. I am pleased to note that the figures have increased and that now one million Australians travel overseas. Out of that number 10 per cent or some 100,000 people seek help. Unfortunately, in a lot of countries, there are some people who are stealing Australian passports. 
I think more warning should be given to Australians as they go overseas so that they realise that the laws of other countries are not the same as our laws. In the last year the 100,000 people who have sought help have turned to the Australian embassies or high commissions and to the officers in those embassies to assist them out of the problems which they have faced. We also find that the amount of traffic in telegrams and communications has increased dramatically in the last five years. Five years ago some 350,000 telegrams were received by the Department in Australia. Complex and difficult individual communications go through every day. That number increased to some 500,000 cables last year. 
The Department in Australia and overseas looks after Australians and their interests. I am particularly pleased at the amount of dedication which is shown by members of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The misconception which some Australians have that members of the foreign service spend their time going from one cocktail party to another is something which I believe is very far from the truth. Australian officials from a wide variety of government departments and instrumentalities are desperately needed at posts abroad, not only to protect Australia's bilateral interests and the rights of Australian citizens but also to ensure that Australia's views are represented fully, and occasionally even forcefully, at the ever-growing range of international conferences which take decisions affecting so many aspects of Australia's prosperity and way of life. Todays interdependent world requires practical international contracts at various levels. Australian officials serving overseas, together with their Australian based counterparts, remain ready to play a role in the future of Australia. Those people work in the Department of Foreign Affairs. I am pleased that in the Estimates we have allocated the huge sum of just under $464m to assist those people to carry on with this marvellous work. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that Australia's rate of inflation has fallen substantially? 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister plan to reorganise the Department of the Treasury? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  stated that an incident probably happened, involving me and a security check, at an airport. This has never happened. Never has there been a stopwork at a security check. Every time I have approached a security check I have realised the importance of it and I have been quite willing to have my baggage examined, as has everybody else. That is the only way I approach it. I consider that that sort of political smear tactic on the last day of the Parliament is something that should be above the honourable member for Shortland. 

 Mr MORRIS (Shortland)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In the few moments available to me tonight I should like to reflect on some of the statements made by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  If the honourable member does not know the real facts about the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, I refer him to the  Gulag Archipelago  and the  First Circle  both written by Alexander Solzhenitsyn. That wonderful nation which was so roundly praised tonight has managed to send over 10 million people to concentration camps and to destroy them. 
-That is true. I agree with my friend, the honourable member for Fadden. A friend of mine who went through the concentration camps in Hitler Nazi Germany told me that if he had a choice between going back to the concentration camps of the Germans or going to the Siberian wastes under the Russians, he would choose the Germans because then at least he would have some chance of getting out. 
The honourable member for Hunter tried to smear the character of an honourable man, a Minister in both the Thirtieth Parliament and the Thirty-first Parliament. I refer to the man who did such a magnificent job as Treasurer of this country in 1976 and 1977 and who has now taken on the responsibility for the portfolio of Industry and Commerce. I can assure the honourable member that this Australia of ours will be a better country with that man in the ministry than the people he reflected on at the end of his speech. 
I should like to conclude my preliminary remarks by referring to East Timor. I say to the honourable member for Hunter that the person who gave the OK to the Indonesians was his Prime Minister. Unfortunately his Government was in office between the years 1 972 and 1 975. It will take this Government and future Liberal governments a long time to get rid of the socialism that unfortunately did so much harm to so many people in this country. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I, through you, offer to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on being elected to that very important position. I also wish to congratulate a fellow Queenslander, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker.  I should also like to congratulate, through you and through  Mr Speaker,  the new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, a man I consider to be in part a Queenslander but above all an Australian. I know that he will do a magnificent job in the important position of Governor-General of this country. 
I also feel that I should say a very big and a very warm thank you to the people of the electorate of Brisbane for asking me to handle their problems in Canberra in the Thirty-first Parliament of Australia. I had a delightful result- a victory for which everybody who supported me, particularly my own Party, the Liberal Party, had worked very hard. The degree of responsibility shown by the Prime Minister of this country in 1976 and 1977 was wholeheartedly re-endorsed by the people of Australia. I am pleased to see present tonight the Minister for 
Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who spent so many days helping me and ensuring that I was returned. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were two of the Ministers who came into my electorate to ensure that Brisbane remained where it should- in the hands of the Liberal Party. I should like also to say thank you to a really magnificent campaign team, to my parents and my wife, and to a number of my colleagues in Brisbane who worked so hard to ensure that a Liberal member was returned in the federal division of Brisbane. 
The Federal division of Brisbane has changed quite dramatically. Three of the nine subdivisions which existed in 1975 now rests in the hands of the new member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys),  and I congratulate him on his election. One of the subdivisions has been redistributed into the Federal division of Ryan. The four new subdivisions, one of which came from Petrie and the other three from Ryan, have ensured that the number of constituents in the Brisbane electorate which had dropped dramatically to some 56,000 people has risen again. At the beginning of 1978 just over 68,000 people are eligible to vote within the electorate and some 105,000 people live within the electorate. I give a promise to this Parliament, to my colleagues and to the party I represent that I will use my best endeavours to ensure that those people are fairly represented, without fear or favour, without concern for their race, or religion. If people in my electorate have a problem it is my concern that they should know I can be reached 24 hours a day seven days a week, if not in my office then at my home. To that end, every single person who has moved into the electorate in the last few months will receive a letter, as has been my practice in the last two years, giving all the necessary and relevant information. 
I believe that in the year 1978 we are in a situation where we must reflect on the magnificent job that has been done in the last two years. We should turn our minds back to the difficult times of 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975 and reflect on the economic mess that the Government inherited in December 1975. We faced the highest rate of unemployment that Australia had ever seen and the highest rate of inflation that Australia had ever seen. The ravages of socialism were moving across the face of this nation, destroying the business confidence of investors, within the country and without, ensuring that Australia's friends and neighbours, who had been involved with us for some years, were no longer looking to Australia as a partner in their operations. They were determined that, if Australia remained in hands which were incompetent, there was no way in the world that they were going to be involved in investing in this great country of ours. The people in the rural areas had lost much. The people in the cities had also suffered through bad management in the form of decisions on wage rates. We were facing an extraordinarily difficult time. 
The last two years have not been easy. They have not been easy for members of the Government or the Ministry, but I am proud to say that the Australian people know what we are about. Our victory in 1977 I think deserves congratulations, but I believe that we have to look to the future. That approach has already been reflected in our first joint party meeting and in discussions that a number of my colleagues have had with the Ministry. It will ensure that Australia goes forward, so that we can guarantee a lower rate of inflation and a lower interest rate, so that people can purchase and live in their own homes instead of renting them, and so that our country can once again achieve the sort of prosperity which it should have and would have had but for a temporary aberration. 
Before I deal with some rather more important matters, I should like to thank also the various people who contested the Federal division of Brisbane for their parties. One man was a former member of this House for a number of years and represented the Australian Labor Party. There was also a candidate from the Progress Party and another candidate from the Australian Democrats. 
I believe that two very important problems face this country at present. Firstly, I will dwell on the area of protection for Australian industries. I have been very sad to read in a number of articles in the last few months reports that Australia does not have efficient manufacturing industries including the clothing, textile and footwear industries. I would like to refute this in the first few words that I am uttering in the Thirtyfirst Parliament. I was recently at a factory that manufactures a very well known brand of singlets for men, women and children. Fifteen years ago it took that factory 16 minutes to make a dozen men's singlets. Today, through efficient manufacturing, with the new plant and equipment which is now being utilised in this country, it takes 8V4 minutes to manufacture a dozen singlets. We produce a man's shirt in this country in half the time it takes to manufacture one in Hong Kong. We have very efficient industries. We are now in a position where with some of the plant and equipment which is being introduced into the Australian manufacturing sector- plant and equipment which has been imported from England and America which specialise in the manufacture of this machinery- we have extremely efficient textile, garment and footwear industries which need the degree of assistance in the form of quotas and tariffs which has been guaranteed to those industries by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on a number of occasions. Of course, had an Australian Labor Party government been elected to office those industries could have said goodbye to their futures and those many, many thousands of employees who have been actively involved in the manufacturing industry with their employers for a number of years would no longer be employed. 
The traumatic effect that unemployment has on many families throughout this country is seen only when one takes the time to go out and get involved with the unemployed. This is something that I started to do two years ago. I am now in the position where I challenge a number of people who claim to be unemployed to come to my office and tell me that they are genuinely unemployed. I will guarantee them a job, because I have on the one hand a number of employers who cannot get people to work in carpeted, airconditioned offices. I cannot get people to work in a workshop which is well equipped and well lit. The equipment is provided and training is available. I still cannot get people to come forward and work in those areas. I would like those people who are living within my electorate and who have sons and daughters who are unemployed or who know as a social friend anybody who is unemployed to telephone my office. I will make an appointment. They can come and see me and I will say to them that if they want a job, they will get a job. Further, I would like to say that there are not 445,000 people in this country unemployed; there are 445,000 people registered for employment. 
-The interjections coming from the Opposition side show that most honourable members opposite have never employed anybody and most of them have been flat out being employed. I can only say that 269,000 people in this country at present are receiving the unemployment benefit and 445,000 are registered for employment. They are not unemployed, because a number of them who have used the Commonwealth Employment Servicenot 'Unemployment Service', Employment Service- have done so in the full realisation that this organisation is there to assist people to get a job. I must commend the Commonwealth Employment Service officers in my electorate for the forthright way in which they have helped many people to obtain positions- and in a lot of cases, to better their positions- by registering their names in respect of companies with which at the time of their first registration they could not obtain a position. I instance one case of last year to show the kind of situation in respect of which the facts became twisted. A number of Australian Labor Party supporters should stop squealing about the so-called high rate of unemployment and realise that the statistics that are being used and bandied about by them are completely inaccurate. 
An assistant chef at the Royal Brisbane Hospital came to see me and asked whether he could obtain a similar type of job in a smaller hospital or in a motel. I phoned the employment service in Charlotte Street and asked the manager whether there were any positions available in a smaller hospital, of which there are only a few in Brisbane. He informed me that there were none available at the time but that he would place this individual's name on the employment list and would keep his eyes open in case a position became available. The individual concerned was registered for employment and, in the way that statistics are twisted around, became a so-called unemployed person from February 1977 until November 1977, although he still had a job. St Andrew's War Memorial Hospital on Wickham Terrace then found that it had a position vacant. A staff member phoned the local Commonwealth Employment Service office which notified this man who then resigned from the Royal Brisbane Hospital and applied for the position. He is now employed at St Andrew's. During that period from February until November he was a statistic on the unemployment list, but the only thing that he was trying to do was to better his position, and he did so. He now has a job which he prefers. It is in a smaller hospital and he is more actively involved. 
We have heard tonight the suggestion that there should be a return to the Regional Employment Development scheme which the Labor Party introduced in 1973. It found that the scheme was costing a few extra dollars, so it was discontinued. Labor Party supporters hark back to the RED scheme, saying that it was such a wonderful scheme we should become involved with it. The RED scheme was a complete and utter disaster. In know that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  who stood for election and was very narrowly defeated in 1 974 knew of some classic examples of that and he conveyed them to the Australian people at the time. Fortunately, people in the electorate of Bowman realised the errors of their ways and I am pleased to see that my colleague was returned in 1977 also. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the Labor Party bleats about its concern for the unemployed but it fails to realise that in its term of office it created this problem. It is our job to try to solve it, and we are not doing so badly at the task. A number of very difficult areas are involved. The unemployment problem is not just one vast area but is composed of a number of different small areas. Some people- about 10 per cent of the number registered are unemployable. A number of people who live in rural areas should not have to leave those areas because of the local situation where they have built their home and have their social and family friends. I believe that those people should stay there. A number of people in the cities are not technically trained. The Government is helping them with the National Employment and Training scheme. A number of people are waiting for positions and we are being helped through the Community Youth Support scheme. We have implemented a number of different schemes, which time does not permit me to mention tonight, which are helping many of those unemployed people. I have heard senior members of the CES throughout Queensland tell a number of employers on occasions that they would not bother sending to them some of these longhaired lay-abouts who do not want a job because they would do harm. The classic example of all time occurred in the Fortitude Valley CES office last week. An individual walked in and said: 'I will never wear shoes in any job; I want a job where I do not have to wear shoes'. There is not one industrial award in this country and there is not one trade union in this country that would allow an individual to be employed if he did not wear shoes. That is the sort of person with whom we are dealing. 
I believe that the Government has been given a very serious responsibility for the next three years. I know that this new Ministry will not shirk from the difficult task of getting Australia further along the road to prosperity. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has shown his honesty and has shown that he is completely prepared to take on the criticism that is levelled at him by mealymouthed critics who have no understanding of the responsibilities of high office. They are doing themselves a great deal of harm. 
Tonight we heard one honourable member involving himself in smear tactics. I suggest to some of the members of the Australian Labor 
Party that they stop being impressed by television and radio programs and some of the newspaper articles. The Australian people outside this House are not influenced one little bit by sections of the media which engage in smear tactics. I can only say that every time honourable members opposite smear members of the Government parties, particularly members of the Ministry and the Prime Minister himself, they are just doing a lot of good for the Government and helping us to win more votes. I am looking forward to being active in the role of a member of this House in the next three years and, by virtue of that involvement, making for a better Australia. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns uranium and Australian participation in the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation. What stage has the INFCE study reached? What efforts is the Government making to ensure that the work of INFCE is effective? Is the Australian Government taking a particular interest in the long-term supply of technology and fuel? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Speaking in support of the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill and the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill gives me an opportunity to present some of the more pertinent facts in relation to the problems which are being faced by the Australian manufacturing industries in a world-wide scene. Australia's manufacturing industries are competing against the products of foreign industries on very unfair terms, both in Australia and abroad. That competition falls into three broad categories. Firstly, there is competition from very cheap labour countries where foreign investment in export industries is being assisted and subsidised by the host governments of those countries. 
Secondly, there is competition from communist-controlled nations where cheap labour and production costs are augmented by the fact that the manufacturing plants in those countries are state owned and do not necessarily have to show a profit, there being no shareholders except the state. Frequently the state exports products from those factories at cost or even below cost in order to gain hard currency exchange. Thus the price of export goods from these competition sources often is an artificially low 'political' price. The third form of competition is from the subsidised industries of Western Europe and North America. The governments of those countries provide interest free loans, grants to employers to offset wage costs, tax concessions, special allowances for depreciation and other help, admitted or hidden, to assist their industries to compete world-wide against the products of the first two categories I have mentioned. 
These highly organised forms of international competition would wipe out any Australian manufacturing industry on the home market if government protection were not provided. Already many Australian industries have been greatly reduced in size and skills through market disruption in Australia caused by imports from such subsidised sources. The situation is worsened because Australia's manufacturing industries are not receiving sufficient assistance from the Government to protect them on export markets. In fact, many of our companies have lost the export markets they once owned because they are running into unfair trade as distinct from free trade conditions. There is an urgent need to assist Australian manufacturing industries to export by increasing government aid to match international industrial assistance. 
Why is that necessary? It is necessary, firstly, to strengthen the base of" Australia's export earnings beyond unprocessed mineral exports and rural products, thus giving greater stability to the Australian economy. Secondly, it is necessary in order to increase markets for Australia's manufactured goods beyond the small Australian home market, thus achieving increased private investment in manufacturing industries, the development of existing and new industries with their accompanying new skills and technologies, increased employment, and large production runs resulting in greater economies of scale and lower production costs, which would eventually benefit Australian consumers as well as export competitiveness. Thirdly, it is necessary to give greater depth to Australia's manufacturing industries, enabling them to withstand market fluctuations at home and to maintain employment, investment and cash flow. Fourthly, it is necessary to enable Australian manufacturing industries to improve their competitiveness on the home market. Fifthly, it will enable Australian manufacturing industries to compete on world markets against the foreign industries producing like products which are heavily promoted in assistance both directly and indirectly by foreign governments. Australia's degree of government assistance to its manufacturing industries for exports is negligible compared with the norm of assistance elsewhere in the world. 
How can the Australian Government assist manufacturing industry? Firstly, there should be taxation concessions to export industries, direct government assistance to help develop export markets, government grants, and low interest loans for the establishment and development of such industries. Secondly, joint governmentindustry surveys should be undertaken of the export potential of Australian industries including available markets and the margin of price disability against international competitors. Follow-up investigations on a joint basis should be made to discover what further action needs to be taken. Thirdly, threshold costs should be set in opening up and continuing with a new foreign market from the initial point of inertia in demand for Australian products, to be met jointly by the Australian Government and those Australian companies interested in forming an Australian industry task force designed to capture a share of the foreign market. This form of government assistance should continue until such time as the initial promotion in the foreign country is completed. 
I might mention here that the New Zealand Government provides to its exporting industries an export manufacturing investment allowance of 20 per cent in the first year, together with the normal depreciation. New Zealand development grants for new markets reduce the after-tax to 19.5c per dollar spent. A New Zealand tax deduction of 25 per cent of the value of increased exports is allowed. In addition, exports to a new market, which include exports of new products to old markets, qualify for two years for an additional 15 per cent reduction. An assumption by the Industries Assistance Commission has been evident in most of its reports on industries in recent years. That assumption is that market forces, government action or human initiative in some form will provide replacement industries for re-employment and re-investment in the wake of the reduction or extinction of existing industries through lower protection against unfair import competition. The folly of this assumption is that it ignores the fact that market forces created existing industries. Thus if existing market shares are not retained either at home or abroad, new markets must be found for other products before new industries are created to manufacture them. 
The market always comes first. Obviously it is dangerous nonsense to attempt to establish new industries to manufacture products in advance of knowing if their products can be sold for a reasonable return on investment or can withstand subsidised foreign competition. Not enough is being done by the Australian Govern-  --- .----- .---- - J---_ _i - *_________ u r,  ment to encourage  aim  assist market research for industries in Australia and overseas as a prelude to redirecting investment in manufacturing into more desirable endeavours. This surely must become the first priority in any effort to restructure Australian manufacturing industry. We should take care to retain the industries we had before the restructuring. 
Experience in Australia and in other countries has already amply demonstrated that market shares for existing industries sometimes must be maintained by a government for particular reasons of national importance, even at the cost of subsidising production or employment. Firstly, this would prevent prolonged or permanent unemployment among workers living in regions where there is not a sufficiently wide range of job opportunities for their type of employment, aptitudes or skills. Secondly, in some provincial areas of Australia that element of the population which is not employed in rural industries or in local commerce faces permanent or prolonged unemployment if industrial work or light industrial work is not provided and maintained in the district. The only alternative for such people is to leave the district to seek such employment elsewhere. In the past this has been partly responsible for the long established drift of population from rural districts of Australia to the cities, particularly among young men and women who after leaving school cannot find employment in their home districts suitable to their aptitudes. A survey on the importance of the textile and apparel industries in the Victorian regional centre of Wangaratta has been conducted. 
The flexibility of labour is discussed elsewhere in my speech. I have concluded that many families cannot or will not move their homes from a district in which they have been long established to accept or to seek jobs in the same industry or in new industries distantly removed. However, the drift of population from Australia's rural districts to the cities more often than not has featured young single people whose mobility is greater than that of married people and those who have acquired homes. It is also true that many country people who cannot find suitable work in their home districts prefer to remain home permanently unemployed than to leave to take their chances in the cities. This applies particularly to women. It is significant that the governments of Great Britain and West Germany are at present subsidising employment on the wages basis in depressed provinces in those countries to maintain employment in the apparel and textile industries. 
Thirdly, it is important for employment opportunities to be maintained for migrants with language problems, particularly for women migrants, in industrial and light industrial work where this is not a handicap. The apparel and textile industries, for example, have a record of achievement in providing such employment since the Second World War. Fourthly, the division of vocational aptitudes in the work force is not greatly different from country to country. Not everyone can work in a bank, an office or even a shop. A considerable percentage of the population of every nation attains the dignity of employment through the value of their skills related to manual dexterity. This applies to both male and female employment. 
It is easy for intellectual workers to assume wrongly that factory work is boring or unjust because they themselves would not like to be doing it. This is in effect intellectual snobbery. Such people sometimes assert that industrial and light industrial employment is 'dirty work'. They fail to recognise that industrial or light industrial work is essential to some people and far more preferable to being unemployed. It is sometimes evident that some people favour the exporting of so-called 'dirty work', claiming that jobs in manufacturing industry should not be done by Australians but could be done by people in other countries who charge less for it, although this is not necessarily true in the context of the various national economic scales. There is an element of racial exploitation in this thinking. For instance, 'We can get others to do our dirty work for us because they charge less'. There may also be an assumption of racial superiority, that is, that Australians are too good for light industrial and industrial 'dirty work' but others do not mind doing it. 
In Australia a strange cargo cult mentality persists. It believes that this country is entitled to a continuation of high wages, high employment and a high standard of living but also is entitled to cheap consumer goods. It is argued that it is an injustice for the Australian public to pay high prices for the products of its own labour, although this labour itself is highly priced. It is advocated that cheap imported consumer goods can replace the highly priced Australian consumer goods and that the public will benefit by this substitution. The cheap foreign consumer goods produced by people less fortunate than ourselves will be offered to the Australian public by the benevolent Australian retailers at bargain prices to bring down inflation. With our high wage structure and high production costs, and the subsidised foreign competition on our home market, almost any Australian manufactured product can be undersold or put out of business. The importer/ retailer can make high profit mark-ups on imported products, undersell the Australian made product by a small margin, and put the Australian made product out of business by giving preference in orders to foreign made products. He can do all of this without much public benefit in price gain. 
There is insufficient public recognition of the essential need to support Australian industries by paying higher prices for the products of such industries as an essential part of the cost of high Australian wages, high employment and a high standard of living. A Commonwealth Government committee is currently investigating the possibility of a 'Buy Australian Made' campaign for this reason. It should be noted that the American garment workers union is actively promoting American made garments. In Australia one industry group, the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers, has been engaged in a similar national promotion for the past two years at a total cost to the industry of some $150,000. I think that if honourable members examine some of the manufactured goods which are sold here they can tell the Australian made promotional item which is identified by a big 'A', meaning it is Australian made. Australian consumers, wage earners and employers, including manufacturers and retailers, cannot be blamed for their self interest in any consideration of the share of Australian markets going to locally made products or cheap subsidised imports. The protection of markets for Australian industries is government business. Investors of capital in manufacturing require a reasonable return of profit on their investment and will always try to put their money where this is obtainable. 
I believe very seriously that the problems that we have been facing in this country for some time, particularly with our balance of payments, will continue as long as we continue to have a high degree of imports from overseas sources. When we had an import replacement policy which worked effectively for more than 25 years we did not have a balance of payments problem. I believe that we must look seriously at an export incentive scheme such as I have mentioned. We could take one or two of the relevant points of the scheme which is operating in New Zealand. One could spend a lot of time on this matter, but the time allocated does not permit me to explain what other assistance is rendered by other Western nations, including those in the European Economic Community and the United States of America. 
In 1978 it is important that we take account of some of the attitudes of the Opposition, particularly those expressed in the last election campaign. Not one of the Opposition spokesmen, including the Leader at the time, was prepared to come forward and make a definite statement to the effect that he would support Australian industry and would guarantee that those Australian industries which are efficient, can manufacture at a sensible price and need the assurance of government would continue to be in business. These people unfortunately lost a great deal of support. I am pleased to say that what we are proposing in these two Bills will mean a greater degree of assistance to a number of Australians. I believe that in the long and short term we will see an increase in employment in these industries. We will reduce the cost of the manufactured items because of long production runs. People will be employed instead of being unemployed. I support the two Bills. I will not use my full allocation of time in order to give the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  an opportunity to say a few words tonight. 
In supporting this important piece of legislation this afternoon I feel that some background ought to be given as to how the Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Bill has come about, what it will do and how it will assist an important section of the garment and textile industry which has needed and will continue to need a degree of assistance in the years to come. Briefly, the purpose of this Bill is to grant short term assistance by means of a bounty to Australian manufacturers of polyester-cotton yarn. The main provision is that a bounty will be payable to the manufacturer on the production of yarn consisting of a mixture of polyester and cotton fibres. This measure has come about because the extremely high increase in imports in Australia has resulted in the total production of cotton weaving yarns dropping from 19.4 million kilograms in 1975-76 to 14.3 million kilograms in 1976-77 and spinning yarn production dropping from 5. 1 million kilograms to 4.8 million kilograms. We often hear it said- articles were quoted in various speeches today- that we should not have protected industries and we should not be thinking along the lines of assisting this important section of Australian industry. This is something which I abhor. I will refer later to the situation facing Bradmill Industries Ltd. Some honourable members have said they do not care that 300 people have lost their jobs. These members have criticised the fact that certain garment manufacturers and textile producers in this country have in the last few days declared reasonable profits. These members are the first ones to criticise the manufacturers and say that their profits are too high. May I remind those people who are being critical that we derive tax revenue from profits; we do not derive tax revenue from losses. If we have high profits we have high tax revenue. 
Local producers supplied about 29 per cent of the local demand for fine-count combed cotton and cotton blend yarns in 1975-76, but unfortunately that fell to 24 per cent in 1976-77. Stocks, unfortunately, increased and orders declined substantially in 1976-77, due to an increase in imports and a lack of concern by certain sections in the Australian economic scene about the difficulties which these very important technical people were facing. They could not produce a yarn that competed successfully with yarn that was produced overseas, both natural fibre in the form of cotton and synthetic fibre in the form of polyester. The manufacturers went to the Industries Assistance Commission. The IAC, for once, took account of the full situation and considered all the relevant evidence, not just part of it, as has been its wont on a number of occasions. The IAC looked at this whole situation and recommended a bounty. It did this in preference to recommending tariff quotas or additional duties, in order to assist this very important section of industy more speedily and to reduce the cost of the end product to the consumer. 
Under this Bill the bounty payable is $ 1 . 1 5 per kilogram. This was the estimated difference between the landed duty paid price of imported yarns and the ex-factory price of comparable local yarn. May I say that I believe that the Australian industry has unfairly received a good deal of criticism from many ill-informed people. Recently I had the opportunity to spend some time in Sydney and look at some new processing equipment which is the first of its kind ordered in the world. It was not ordered by a German company, an English company, a continental company or an American company. It was ordered by the Australian group Bond's- Wear Pty Ltd- Coats Patons (Australia) Ltd. There has been a most revolutionary and most significant breakthrough in cotton yarn manufacture. It has been in the very important area of spinning. It has been by Bond's. The process which Bond's now uses has meant that in the last three years it has been able to increase production by 10 per cent without a lc increase in the cost of production. This firm is selling the product at the same price it was selling that product three years ago. 
Open-end spinning equipment has recently been developed. This process not only spins at approximately five times the speed of the latest conventional machinery but also eliminates the need for two other operations, stubbing and winding. The yarn produced by this system is suitable for selected apparel knitting purposes, and Bond's is currently converting its Lithgow mill to this system. On the basis of the machines already installed which I saw operating in Sydney, it is likely that Bond's will be able to reduce the labour content of its Lithgow factory and at the same time, because of the increase in productivity, be able to employ more people in the garment manufacturing area. I am pleased to see that at present in this area Bond's employ in the vicinity of 2,000 people, which is an increase in the number of people it employed previously. This has come about because of its confidence in the future of the industry under this Government. Under the previous Administration, with its academic theorising on a 25 per cent tariff cut, we ended up with a lot of people who unfortunately lost their jobs. 
I think the matter of bounties is totally different to the matter of tariffs and quotas. The argument as to why we should introduce a bounty system in this area of polyester-cotton yarn is interminable. I believe that we should explore every measure that would ensure a safe and secure industry. I also believe that governments must give industry the degree of assurance that it needs. I refer to the Bradmill situation and to the type of equipment which that firm has introduced in the area of polyester-cotton yarn. Bradmill may need 12 months to do a feasibility study on the best equipment available at the most reasonable price, to import that equipment, to install it, to get the initial production runs going correctly and then start producing so that it will get a return on its investment in that equipment. In some cases this may take 24 to 30 months- two to  2t  years. Unless an industry has an assurance from the Government that at the end of 12 months the Government will not change its mind, as we saw during previous administrations, then there is no way in the world that industry can invest in new plant and equipment in the years ahead. 
New equipment is being produced. I was able to observe at the Bond's factory new equipment developed by Bond's engineers which has been found to be an extremely worthwhile and highly profitable innovation. Bond's itself has taken out world-wide patents and is selling to the world equipment which has been developed by its own engineers. I believe that it is terribly important that any form of assistance, including the bounty that we are talking about today, which will ensure that those industries which need assistance keep on going, should be forthcoming. The spin-off from giving this assistance is in the number of people that these industries employ. Anyone who travels through New South Wales country areas, Victorian country areas, indeed even Queensland, to a lesser extent South Australia and most definitely certain parts of Tasmania, will see that many people are employed in these industries and are involved in them because these industries have been decentralised and are located in rural areas. A number of very important advantages are to be gained from assisting these industries to survive. The cost has to be considered. However, if honourable members consider the cost of the assistance that we give industries in this country and the amount of imports which come into this country in comparison with the situation in the major trading countries which are signatories to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade they will realise that Australia by far is the fairest of them all. 
In 1 975, when the Fraser Government came to power, the market share for the Australian garment and textile industry was only about 55 per cent and about 45 per cent was imported. In 1978 the situation is that Australian manufacturers have a 60 per cent share of the home market but we still have the biggest percentage per head of imports in the world. No country has a higher percentage import ratio per head of population than this country has. The United States of America has an 85 per cent market share, the European Economic Community has a 90 per cent market share and Japan, of all places, in the garment area has a 100 per cent market share. Not a single item can be imported in Japan. We have never imposed such restrictions in this country and I do not believe that we should do so. 
I believe that we should have due consideration for other nations and also due consideration for the people in this country who want to buy merchandise which is not manufactured in this country. I know the people who were involved in bringing into this country from Israel a well-known international brand of leatherware By Australian standards it was extremely expensive. I was told that, even with the very high duty, there were still people in this country who were quite prepared to expend that amount of money on such goods. Although the goods were not manufactured here, they were prepared to involve themselves in the expense of importing them and paying very high duty. I believe that we should allow this practice to continue. If people are concerned about the price, that is a different matter. We are talking about expensive merchandise which can be produced overseas and which has an international reputation, such as our Australian goods used to have overseas. Unfortunately that ceased to be the case in the latter part of 1 973. Over a number of years I built up a fairly successful export market for Australian manufactured goods garments, children's wear, men's wear and textiles. This grew over a period of about eight years. Working through the South Pacific area I gained an understanding of the market and I found that people appreciate high quality garments. Australia has the highest quality in the world of garment manufacture and finish. This is the only country in the world in which even the cheapest garment is overlooked. Very few other countries would expend the money- this is a very expensive part of the merchandise and we spend the extra time in processing a garment to overlock it. 
On occasions I have heard an assertion about $4 billion- I do not know the magic formula used- being the cost to the Australian consumer of having protected industries. I do not understand the so-called relevant facts surrounding that assertion. I come back to the very simple principle that, by introducing a bounty of $ 1 . 1 5 per kilogram on yarn produced, we will ensure that Australian expertise is retained, that Australians will maintain their jobs and that other associated industries will have a continuity of supply from an Australian manufacturing house. I believe that that is the crux of the matter. I keep hearing a lot of airy fairy nonsense from people who assert that the end of all our problems will come very swiftly if we introduce free trade. I believe that those people have not had a sufficiently long, hard and sensible look at this matter. If they spent a little time looking at the truth of the situation they would change their minds rather dramatically and in so doing the extremely high unemployment rate, which was caused in the main by some 30,000 to 40,000 people losing their jobs through the decision of the previous Government to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent, would be alleviated. 
A lot of people associated with the previous Government had a burning desire at every possible opportunity to put forward their argument as to why Australian industries should not receive any degree of protection, why we should not have any tariffs and why we should not impose quotas. Bounties have just recently been given a half-blessing because some people now realise that they are supposedly identifiable in the actual cost. If the Australian situation is compared with the situation of our trading partners people would be surprised to find out that even our near neighbours who are trying to compete with Australian manufacturers have huge and very restrictive tariff and quota walls. At the same time they are using- I emphasise the word 'using'- the offshore operation of some Australian manufacturers to gain hard world currency and hard Australian dollars. They are subsidising those manufacturing plants in those countries to ensure that they will be maintained. The situation is that we have a subsidised manufacturer in another country who is trying to supply to Australia. They say: 'We can produce this item for X number of dollars cheaper than you can in Australia. ' People are saying that that is why we should buy from these countries. Those people do not look far enough back to find out the true situation in relation to where the subsidy starts and why in some cases the Australian manufacturer cannot compete. 
It is with a great deal of pride that I say that over a period since 1975 we have had a complete change in attitude. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  who is at the table is partly responsible for that. I congratulate him. I appreciate that he and his Department do not have an easy job. Unfortunately, the issue is not black and white. For the Minister for Defence to make a choice of two or three different aircraft types is fairly easy, but in this area of tariffs, quotas and bounties very difficult decisions have to be made. I am pleased to see that the Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Bill 1978 will show the Australian community that the Government understands the problem 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will the Government be having discussions with the Queensland Government on the question of the management of the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves under the new legislation? Does he agree that there is a continuing need for close co-operation between Commonwealth and State governments and their officials to ensure that the interests of individuals are fully protected? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Productivity been drawn to a report in the  Australian  of this morning which is critical of the lack of Australian industry participation in the procurement program for the Leopard tank and which states that there has been an under-estimate in the number of spares required, which could have helped to overcome some of this difficulty? Is that the situation? If so, what is being done about it? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
What are the names of all Commonwealth Departments, Statutory Authorities and other Government agencies which have a statutory or other obligation to provide the Parliament with an annual report each year. 
What is the period of the normal operational year for each of these bodies. 
On what dates were the annual reports of these bodies presented to Parliament from February 1975 to date. 
-I add my support to the motion of condolence moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and supported by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The death of a truly great Australian is a rare event, and the death of  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies is such an event. Australia has lost a great statesman.  His  family has lost a husband, father, father-in-law and grandfather. Many thousands of Australians have lost a true friend, and a number of present and former members of Parliament have lost a former colleague. As I look around this House, it is with the realisation that a significant number of members from both sides of the House grew up under the Prime Ministership of  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies. This wonderful man gave so much to Australia. The debt and gratitude that this nation owes are beyond measure. The most notable achievements included sound government after a terrible war, the rebuilding of Australia's war torn industries and the development of Australia's newly discovered riches. 
The growing importance of Australia in a world context was assisted and guided by the steady, firm and sure hand of a man who had the vision and belief of what our potential as a nation and a people was. My gratitude for  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies knows no bounds. I add my deepest sympathy and prayers to those offered to Dame Pattie Menzies and her family at this time of sorrow. I wish that my few words be added to those already spoken here today. I do this of my own volition and on behalf of the many people who reside in the federal division of Brisbane who knew and loved him. 
I feel that some of the points which were raised tonight by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  should be discussed for a few minutes- the only few minutes in which I can speak on this subject because I, like the honourable member, have co-operated with the Whips to ensure that this legislation passes through the House this evening. No doubt, as the honourable member has mentioned already, the bounty Bills which are to come before the House will give us both an opportunity to further some of the points which he feels are important and which I also feel are important. The honourable member stated that this Government has involved itself in Industries Assistance Commission bashing. That is patently ridiculous. The IAC is an independent statutory body. It is a body which receives from industry under terms of reference all the information that it can possibly obtain and after receiving that information it puts to Government a suggested course of action. 
The Australian Labor Party was never very happy with the IAC when it was in government because the decision that the Commission made in July 1 973 ensured that in the garment and textile industry some 48,000 people were no longer employed. Honourable members opposite accepted the recommendations of the IAC, made a determination, and the end results which I have mentioned ensued. We, as a government, consider that the IAC is an important body. It is a body which receives from various sections of Australian manufacturing industry information in relation to its particular problems. After that information has been collated and brought to Government, the Government in its own right and with its own understanding of the inimitable problems which sections of industry face makes a decision to ensure that the majority of people are benefited by that Government decision. 
That leads me on to a point which I am delighted to speak about tonight in the debate on these two Bills. Over the last few months I have spoken to many industry people, not only in my federal division of Brisbane but also in the major cities of Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide. During that period I have found a great deal of praise and a great deal of goodwill shown towards the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is at the table tonight, and his two colleagues, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr MacPhee),  for their understanding of the problems which have been facing Australian manufacturing industry. They have also mentioned to me on numerous occasions that the officers of the Commonwealth Public Service who staff these departments- particularly the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Industry and Commerce -have a great deal of understanding and compassion, and a willingness to listen. Through that willingness to listen, manufacturing industry believes it has achieved what is now current throughout industry. This is not so in its entirety, but in the main there is a sense of stability which is ensuring that people are now starting to reinvest in these industries to ensure that they will have a growth of investment and that they will be taking up even more of the unemployed, thus helping to solve the problem which has been dogging our heels for the last 24 months. I can see a growth factor which is going right through to the mid-1980s. Before we reach that point in time, I believe that we must look again at this vexing problem of tariffs and quotas and work out a policy which will ensure that those people who have invested so much of their capital and so much of their working lives in these industries have a continuity of employment and investment. 
However, there is one very important matter which I believe should be mentioned. I refer to the difficulty which the Government is facing and which industry is facing because of the number of people who are trading in quotas. By an accident of history a number of people were placed in a gilt-edged financial situation. By an accident of history, through the action of the previous Labor Government, in the period from 1973-74 or from 1972-73 as the base years for the textile and garment industry, certain people were awarded quotas. The end result of this has been that those people who entered the importation field since that time have accumulated an enormous degree of wealth which has not cost them any personal effort or time. The present situation is that people are renting footwear quotas on a seasonal basis. The current rate for a pair of shoes which can be imported is $2 twice a year. Some people have quotas which amount to between 50,000 and 100,000 units. This means that a person with a quota of 100,000 units who rents his quota can receive in the vicinity of $400,000 at the end of one year. In the garment area, the price range for the rental of quota, again on a seasonal basis - 
Debate interrupted. 
The current rate for the rental of quota in the garment field is rising from $ 1 to $3. Again people who have 50,000 units, such as women's dresses, skirts, blouses and shirts, are in the situation, with a $3 rental on their particular quota, of having in the vicinity of $300,000 at the end of one year. This has meant that in the imported area there is a considerable degree of lack of competition. That is unlike the manufacturing area where there is a vast degree of competition, a keeness in relation to manufacturing prices, and a keenness in the market place. A number of the importers have not been concerned with providing for the consumer, the end product user, a worthwhile item at a worthwhile price by passing on the price advantage from the cheap, low cost countries. 
In the last few years, we have had people who have become known as quota brokers. Those people work on a commission, charging between 3 per cent and 8.5 per cent. That is the rate charged by those I have seen myself. They are in the business of finding people who have a quota and going to other people who require a quota for garments. They sell the quota at the rate of commission which I have mentioned. I believe it is a practice which should not continue in Australia because it is making the position extremely difficult in the manufacturing sector, in the market place, which until now has been reasonably stable and which has been going ahead at a great rate of knots. 
There is a further problem in this area in that these very same people have been using handicrafts and imports from developing countries to the tune this year of some six million units. I have estimated that number from figures which I have received related to the 1977-78 financial year. Some six million units will flood this country, particularly women's blouses, women's shirts, dresses and skirts. I believe that we must look at the problems which have been associated with these two particular areas- the trading in quotas and the use of the handicrafts and imports from developing countries- in order to ensure that these practices do not continue. 
These two Bills are part of a continuing series of Bills which are introduced at certain times and I support them. I shall see whether I can use some of my time in the next few weeks to continue some of the arguments which I have developed tonight. 
One of the problems I always face when I hear a member of the Opposition speak on a Customs Tariff Validation Bill is his complete lack of understanding and comprehension of the true role of the Industries Assistance Commission. The IAC is a truly independent statutory body. The Government has no control over its activities. Yet, in its role as an independent statutory body it is required to furnish to the Government various recommendations in relation to matters which have been referred to it. It amazes me that the Australian Labor Party for some unknown reason does not understand the true role of the IAC. At the same time, it tries to excuse a decision which it made as a government after an independent study done by the IAC was accepted by it in July 1 973. This matter has been thrashed out on numerous occasions. I shall not reiterate it today. But I believe that it should be clearly stated to all people, particularly Opposition members who do not understand its true role, that the IAC is an independent body. It will remain so. 
The IAC is another one of those bodies which this Government, particularly the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  uses as a means of reference. It is only that. The decisions that this Government makes are taken after consideration of all the factors which will affect people in industry, particularly the manufacturing industry. Tariff validation legislation, which comes at the end of a six month period, is a very important part of government. I am pleased to be a supporter of a government which has allowed tariff validation Bills to be debated. That gives honourable members an opportunity to get involved in a very difficult and complex area but a very important one. Many people do not understand the importance of tariffs and how they can affect large sections of the Australian community. Taken to their logical and extreme end, they can affect every single person within the Australian community. 
What is done in the tariff area can most dramatically affect employment. I think it is necessary to put this statement in context by an illustration of what transpired in the employment sector between 1954 and 1971. These are the most accurate up-to-date figures which can be used in a comparison. The three major areas of employment which have been affected by tariff decisions are the rural sector, the mining sector and the manufacturing sector. The share of total employment generated in the rural sector fell between 1 954 and 1 97 1 from 13.1 per cent to about 8 per cent. Whilst the volume of output of the many rural products has been on a long term trend upward, the relative decline in rural product prices has offset the effect of this growth and the contribution of the rural share of the gross domestic product, which fell from around 18.5 per cent to around 6.9 per cent. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I am reluctant to interrupt the honourable member for Brisbane, particularly as I gave considerable latitude to the honourable member for Adelaide, but he appears to be engaging in a debate on the broad tariff question. The Bill before the House is designed simply to achieve validation of collections pursuant to customs tariff proposals introduced into Parliament on 24 May. I request the honourable member to direct his remarks to the Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, with great respect to you I feel that what I am saying is relevant. The customs regulations to which you refer cover a whole host of individual imports to this country. They affect not only the rural sector upon which I am now touching but also the mining sector, our levels of employment and various industries right throughout Australia. For that reason I am touching on these areas to bring my speech into line with the decisions the Government makes in relation to tariffs. We will then have a total picture of how important they are and why I am supporting the Customs Tariff Validation Bill. 
-The Customs Tariff Validation Bill which is before the House ensures that people who would be put out of jobs without a tariff validation will continue in employment.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek a ruling as to how narrow you intend to make this debate. It has been a tradition of this House for members of the Opposition and the Government to use a customs tariff validation Bill to expand the total general areas of tariffs. This has occurred on numerous occasions. 
-Besides the rural sector which is dramatically affected by what we do in relation to tariffs, because of our policy on tariffs there has also been a dramatic change in one other important area. That is the mining sector. The gross output from the mining sector has expanded rapidly since the mid 1960s although in 1973-74 its share of the gross domestic product was still only 4 per cent. Its share of our total employment was only 1.5 per cent. The rapid expansion of output from the mining sector and the changes evident in its products mix have been a response to world market conditions. World market conditions are fairly reflected in what this Government has done since coming to office in 1975 to ensure that people involved in the manufacturing industries can make a decision in relation to their long term prospects and the employment of people within those industries and, at the same time, operate in a framework which has been laid down and made legal by tariff" validation. We, as a Government, contrary to the allegation so frequently thrown at us from the Opposition, are deeply concerned about the employment situation, which can be dramatically affected by tariffs. That was seen following the decision of July 1973 of the former Labor Government, which found that it very quickly had reached an impossible situation, one never previously achieved, in which, within a comparatively short period some 48,000 people were thrown out of work. 
The Government's policy- it is important that we understand the tariff situation- has been to offer this framework and, at the same time, give incentives in very important areas such as research and development, taxation and exports so that the small Australian domestic market may be enlarged by orders attracted from the world market and we can increase the small production runs which make some of our products manufactured under a tariff wall, extremely uncompetitive with those manufactured elsewhere. To this end, it is important that we should look at the factors which are affecting the size of our domestic and overseas markets within the framework of tariffs and the impact that tariffs have on the market place. 
The key to obtaining an improved investment outlook is to create expanding market opportunities, both locally and abroad, for both exportearning and import-replacing industries. This is intimately tied up with what this Government is doing in relation to tariffs. Within the Australian economy three important sectors which have the capacity to meet these objectives are the rural, mining and manufacturing sectors. It should be clearly recognised that the service sector has only a limited capacity to earn export income- certainly not in the volumes generated by the other sectors of our community. Therefore, quite rightly, the focus of current Government thinking is the means by which market opportunities can be created for the output of those three areas, especially the manufacturing sector. Attention is being given to all three sectors, as shifts in world economics takes place and as actions of other governments render it impossible for Australia to be totally dependent on the performance of one or even two of these sectors alone. 
It is with a great deal of pride that, as a supporter of the Government, I endorse the move by our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who has just taken off for Europe to try to bring to the notice of those countries the importance which Australia places on the opportunity to create an impact, in a competitive way, on their market place. When we consider the balance in the trading arrangements that we have with the European Economic Community- in the vicinity of $2 billion to the advantage of the EEC- we realise that we could do exactly what it has donecreate such high tariff walls that its products would be excluded and that $2 billion surplus would no longer exist. It will be on only rare occasions that the cycles of world trade will be such that the full export, or import-replacing, potential of these three sectors will be derived. On most occasions, world economic conditions will cause the potential of one or more of these sectors to be curtailed. Amongst the range of the key issues which direcdy influence the performance of exports and imports are the exchange rates, tariffs and competitiveness of Australian products with those made or produced in other countries. Rather than pay particular attention to tariffs on their own, we must focus on the broader range of issues under the general heading of assistance to industry against competitive imports. This is one of the important aspects of tariff validation bills such as we are discussing today. Such assistance measures are more directly relevant to those industries which have a manufacturing base orientated for the major part of the local Australian market. Through a tuning of tariffs, import controls, or other nontariff barriers, assuming stable exchange rate conditions, the flow of imported products to the Australian market can be regulated. In recent years, certainly since 1971, there has been a strong body of opinion that tariffs should be lowered to promote a greater flow of imports with a view to causing restructuring of Australian industries. In fact, this has occurred in quite a number of instances. 
It should be recognised that in the case of most Australian companies the bulk of the output is directed towards the Australian market. The scale of their operations and their consequent manufacturing performance, is geared to the through-put achievable from this market. Export activities assist favourably the scale of operations and manufacturing performance. However, as export activity is generally small in relation to total activity, a reduction in local markets has a serious and significant adverse effect on manufacturing performance. 
Therefore, in the current context of the existing structure of manufacturing industry, reductions of tariffs, or other means of controlling imports, results in a lowering of the competitiveness of local industry and promotes industry scale-down rather than industry reorganisation. The example of the Australian electronics industry is a case in point. Similarly, the rapid scalingdown of the textiles, clothing and footwear industries under conditions of reduced controls over imports, is another illustrative case. 
By a wise use of tariff validation Bills, which reflect what has been done by the Customs people on the ground when facing a difficult decision in relation to large imports we have, over a period of years, protected Australian industries, have ensured that Australians who hold positions within those industries could continue in that employment and, at the same time, have provided an infrastructure of go-ahead manufacturing concerns. This has led, over a period of time, to an increase in the Australian work force. I believe that these actions have been very important. 
I believe, however, that in this period of 1978, 1979 and 1980, when we are increasingly facing a more difficult world situation, in what we are doing with overseas companies in relation to access to our Australian markets, and in what we are doing in the exportation of our Australian manufactured goods, the use of tariffs is becoming less and less important. However, as a policy to replace tariffs, greater consideration should be given to areas such as quotas. Quotas in themselves, I believe, are as an absolute end in that they can ensure a total cut-off point with goods which are coming over to this country, or can be used to allow a greater amount of goods to flow into this country. 
The argument that is fallaciously brought forth by those who have a short-term free trade policy shows a complete lack of concern for fellow Australians who enjoy their present standard of living. Over a period of time those advocates fail to realise that free trade policies will not ensure an increase in the number of people who are involved in our manufacturing industries, which are so important. 
This is a very significant piece of legislation. It provides a means of ensuring that we in Australia can regulate the flow of those goods from overseas which can affect quite dramatically our level of employment. I support the Customs Tariff Validation Bill. 
I bring to the attention of the House a matter which is very important to a large number of people involved in the music recording industry and to a number of Australian artists and their future. Yesterday the Government accepted some recommendations from the Industries Assistance Commission in relation to duties and tariffs to be applied to imported recorded music tapes. However, there is one very important matter on which the Government has yet to make a decision, and that is the future of the whole of the music recording industry and the artists involved in it. At the present time 80 per cent of the music played on the radio has been recorded by overseas artists and only 20 per cent has been recorded by local artists. Australia as a nation and this Government have to make a decision soon as to the future of the music recording industry. If we look at the industry around the world and if we look first, as we normally do, to America and the United Kingdom naturally we would believe that the position in those countries would be comparable with our position in some way. But after comparing the positions we find that there is an entirely different system in the United Kingdom and in the United States. In the music programs on the radio in those countries there is about 80 per cent to 90 per cent local content and only 10 per cent to 20 per cent imported content. Music programs on the radio in Australia have an 80 per cent imported content and only a 20 per cent local content. If we are unable to compare the situation in Australia with that which exists in the United Kingdom and in the United States we then have to look elsewhere. So we turn to another country which made a decision on this matter only a few years ago, and that is Canada. 
As honourable members know, Canada is geographically close to the United States. Large areas of Canadian territory receive signals from the United States radio and television stations. In May 1970 the Canadian Government decided to have in music programs on the radio a 30 per cent local content and a 70 per cent imported content. The regulations most affected the privately owned radio stations throughout Canada, and we have a similar situation in Australia. The representatives of these radio stations in Canada were most critical of the Canadian RadioTelevision Commission's plans to enforce Canadian content. They claimed that the country had no talent- I am referring to a CRTC reportthat the regulations would be of incredible hardship and that their listeners would desert them in favour of American stations. The report, which I have in front of me, states that some facts on what has happened since January 197 1 when the regulations came into force are as follows: Firstly, Canada moved, in the space of one year, from the 43rd position in the world to the 3rd position as far as hit-making nations were concerned. The United States was first and Britain was second. I remind honourable members that the United States and the United Kingdom have an 80 per cent to 90 per cent local content and only a 10 per cent to 20 per cent import content. 
The second point that came out of the CRTC's report was that the number of records released by wholly-owned Canadian record companies increased by some 57 per cent in 1 970-7 1. These companies doubled the amount of money spent on recording Canadian artists in that same period. The third point was that the results experienced by the few Canadian independent record companies were complemented by those of the subsidiary record companies of foreign corporations. To put this whole matter into a fair context I think it is important to note that the criterion that has been used on the Canadian record station is something which could be used in Australia. The CRTC called for submissions from the Canadian public. I believe that its guidelines were fair and if necessary they could be applied to the Australian situation. The CRTC stated: 
. at the public hearing, 1 1 1 groups and individuals appeared before us. They represented all kinds of Canadians. They were broadcasters, actors, writers, film makers, producers, trade unions, representatives of home and school associations, co-operatives, advertisers, churches, welfare and voluntary groups, students- but all members of the public. 
I would like to quote a few lines from a couple of pages in this large report. The report stated: 
The purpose of the Commission is simple. The Canadian broadcasting system should be used essentially, basically, predominantly to help Canadians communicate among themselves. This objective is so simple that one feels a little uneasy when repeating it: Canadian broadcasting should be Canadian and should strive for excellence . . . But it is most obvious that Canadian broadcasting is a part of Canadian life that the Canadian people have been most concerned about. This concern is something we have lived with for the last 40 years. 
What has happened in the last 30 to 40 years in this country? The Industries Assistance Commission says in a report that it wants the Australian people to have an opportunity to hear overseas artists. For the last 30 to 40 years we have had an 80 per cent overseas artists content. I believe the time has come when the 190 different artists and groups which are presently under contract to recording companies in this country should be given opportunities to further their talents within this country. We should ensure that those people who are not playing the game by giving local air time to local artists are put into the position where they have to. 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has recommended that the 20 per cent local content be increased to 30 per cent. I wholeheartedly support this very wise and sensible forward looking recommendation. When we compare ourselves with other countries it is ridiculous that we should put Australian artists behind the eight ball. Local artists such as Helen Reddy, Lana Cantrell and Olivia Newton-John had to leave Australia in order to make a go of their wonderful talents which are now being shared by many people around the world. 
The unusual aspect of this whole situation is that the total cost of making a master tape in this country is $ 10,000. This is the total cost which includes the hire of studios, the musicians concerned and so on. The cost of importing a master tape for pressing is $200. The ridiculous situation at present is that although Australian artists are earning income for this country under export earning programs- the level of income from this source has substantially increased over a number of years and is continuing to increase- these very same people are not given air play in this country. I believe that the whole problem to be faced- and a lot of people will not face up to the fact- is that we have excellent artists in this country, we have a wealth of talent which should be assisted and helped. We have an industry in which hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested. 
There are a number of people who, to quote an Australian colloquialism, given a fair go could be put in a situation where they could be internationally recognised for what they are- top artists. I am not asking a great deal. I am asking the Government to give consideration to this very important matter and to ensure that a minimum of 20 per cent air play is given to Australian artists and that that 20 per cent be applied acrosstheboard at even time. At present some radio stations play 60 per cent to 70 percent Australian content in the early hours of the morning but in the peak selling time they play a minimum amount so that their average is only 20 per cent. This practice badly affects the whole industry. In conclusion I say - 
The silly arguments that are brought forward by the Australian Labor Party in debates on matters of public importance are truly amazing. It was with great amusement that I heard the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  continually referring during his contribution to this debate to figures which were announced to this House last Wednesday. I suggest that he should update his information and look at the figures to which I shall be referring and which were released as late as noon yesterday, 1 June, from a source which I think even members of the Labor Party would recognise as being most reliable, namely, the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The honourable member for Adelaide commenced his whole argument by saying that the objective of government is to provide full employment. I totally agree with that assertion, but I can say that that is what happens only under our type of government; it is not what happens under the type of government that he represents. Let us compare the statistics very briefly. The rate of inflation in 1972 stood at 3.4 per cent, but by 1975 the inflation rate for a full year was 17 per cent. That occurred under a Labor administration. When Labor came to office the number of unemployed was 136,000, but that figure had increased to 328,705 by the end of its regime- an unfortunate three-year period. 
I note with interest also that the honourable member for Adelaide had the hide to mention the Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research. That organisation leaped into prominence in the latter part of 1972 with the statement that unemployment would be high in the early part of 1973. That was absolute rubbish. I can only say that since then the Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research has continued its marvellous record of being completely out of tune with what is actually happening. The  Sun  newspaper of Tuesday, 17 August 1976, carried an article with the headline: 'Inflation "to stay high" '. That followed the introduction of the Lynch Budget of that year. The article went on to state: 
Rates of inflation would continue to be more rapid in Australia than our big trading partners through 1 977, Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research said in its latest review. 
The Institute brought forward information which was completely inaccurate. What really and truly amazes me is the fact that the first point mentioned in the matter of public importance brought forward by the honourable member for Adelaide reads: 
The Government's failure to provide positive action to create new jobs. 
I believe that the Government has created new jobs very ably. Since the early part of 1976 eight job creation schemes have been in existence. Five of them are entirely new schemes and three of them have been dramatically changed to give more opportunities to the Australian people to achieve what they all want, namely, a good job and a safe and secure future. The type of economic framework that we have put down will achieve that end. 
I wish to look just briefly at some of the training schemes which we have. I shall begin with the National Employment and Training scheme, which is commonly known as the NEAT scheme. With little more than doubling of expenditure, the numbers in training under that scheme at the end of June 1 978 are expected to be six times the number as at December 1975. At the present time the number in training represents an increase of five times the previous level. There has been a major change in the nature of the training, the change being from formal training courses to on-the-job training. On-the-job training is most directly related to industry needs. More than 85 per cent of the training is now done on the job. The level of on-the-job training was approximately one-third in December 1975. 
Let us compare the number of people assisted under the changed NEAT scheme introduced by this Government with the number helped by the previous Administration, the socialist Labor Party. As at 3 1 December 1975 the total number of people involved in the NEAT scheme was 7,736, at a total cost of $40.2m. As at 1 March 1978 we find that the total number of people involved was 29, 1 12, at a total cost of $44.9m. So there has been quite a dramatic increase in the number of people involved in the scheme but a very small increase in the total cost of it. The approximate number of people assisted under the scheme since 31 December 1975- these figures are available from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations- is a dramatic total of 94,000. So 94,000 people have been ably assisted by a program which this Government introduced in a form which was dramatically changed from the previous scheme. The emphasis is on job training. 
The second program I think I should mention is the Special Youth Employment Training Program. This program, since it was introduced in October 1976, has helped approximately 40,000 young people. Recent research indicates that 61 per cent of all assisted trainees were still in employment four to six weeks after the completion of training. The information I have is that in my electorate of Brisbane- indeed, some of my colleagues involved in the Employment and Industrial Relations Committee can verify this from surveys that we have done- that estimate of four to six weeks has increased dramatically. The surveys show that in some cases these people were still in employment as long as 12 months after the completion of the set training program. As at 3 1 December 1 976 there were 3,275 people in training and being assisted by this scheme. As at 30 April 1978 that figure had increased to 22,994. That is a dramatic increase which shows that this Government is concerned with providing positive action to create new jobs. 
I turn now to the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme. The apprenticeship intake in 1977 was 8 per cent above that in 1976. At the end of March 1978 the national apprenticeship intake was some 10 per cent above the intake at the same time in 1977. Again there has been an increase in the number of people being trained under a new scheme- an increase in the number of people going forward and being involved in programs which are worthwhile and which will provide future employment for themselves and future security for their loved ones. 
Another program which is completely innovative is the Community Youth Support Scheme. Almost 45,000 young people are expected to have been assisted under CYSS by June of this year. The actual total number of people involved in this scheme since its inception is 44,900, at a total expenditure of $6.67m. The number of people involved is dramatic. I can say with pride that a number of my colleagues, who join me on youth affairs committees and on the Employment and Industrial Relations Committee, have put forward the most innovative proposals which have assisted those young people under CYSS. I am very appreciative that the Committee on Youth Affairs- I see the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and Minister Assisting the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Groom)  is at the table- is looking forward to ensuring that we have young people who, because of policies of the previous Labor Government which we are slowly but surely eliminating, thereby creating confidence in the business community that we did not have previously, will be ably looked after and who will be confident in the future of a country which we can govern properly to ensure that those people will share in our total wealth. The programs that are coming out of the Minister's Department will ensure that. 
Another innovative program is the Relocation Assistance Scheme which is providing useful support to help unemployed persons who need relocation where that is a necessary condition in obtaining secure employment. The total number of people involved between 3 1 December 1 975 and 1 March 1978 was 939 at a total cost of $0.6m. The approximate number to be assisted since 31 December 1975 is 1,340 people at a total cost of $ 1.085m. A further program which has been extremely well received and which is operating successfully is the Fares Assistance Scheme. From 1 July 1977 to 31 December 1978 a total of 26,700 people were to have been assisted at a total cost of $95,000 and the revised estimate for the total 1977-78 financial year is 54,000 people assisted at a cost which is commensurate with the whole program. 
I conclude my remarks dealing with this whole area of positive Government approach by referring to the education program for unemployed youth. It is estimated that over 2,000 people will have been assisted by that program at the end of this financial year. I refer next to training for industry and commerce. The allocation for the 1977-78 year is $lm. Claims have been made about the number of persons unemployed. Let me quote the figures so that we can get them in perspective. I will use three sources. Firstly, the number of persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service at April was 402,534-a fall of 7,460. Next we look at the 
Australian Bureau of Statistics' figures. The ABS figures express persons seeking full time work. That is the series most comparable to the CES figures. They show 334,300 people, a total fall of 1 1,400; down some 6.2 per cent in the month of April on the previous figures. Then we have a look at a third source, the Morgan gallop poll. Full time unemployment in April fell 526 to 286,000 people who are registered for unemployment benefits. If we look at any one of the areas that we take as reliable and accurate figures, every single one shows that there has been a fall in unemployment. We then come to the fact that there has been a recent sharp fall in production which is the matter of public importance initiated by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Let us look at production statictics. Comparing the three months ending April 1 978 with the three months ending January 1978, preliminary data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics suggests an improvement in production. Eighteen out of the 32 items for which seasonally adjusted data is available increased while 14 decreased. 
Consumer confidence is another such area which is touched on in the matter of public importance. The index of consumer sentiments published by the Institute of Applied Consumer Economic and Social Resource- the one which I mentioned previously- now stands at 110.8 points as at April. The fact remains that the index is considrably higher than it was in December 1975 which was 103.8 and in December 1974 which was 92.2. Those are the Opposition's own figures from its own source. It is amazing the amount of information that particular group seems to have in concert with the Labor Party. Now let me quote the ABS figures of 1 June, which is yesterday, not last Wednesday. As of 1 June 1978, in a release by the Australian Bureau of Statistics the total value of retail sales of goods in original figures was up 19.5 per cent between July of 1977 and April of this year. Then if we use the seasonally adjusted figures, which is another way of looking at them, there has been a total increase of some 8.9 per cent through those months. Even if we look at two months, three months or six months or if we look at the full financial year we are still in a situation where there are more people spending because of what this Government is doing in economic policies and there is confidence and that confidence has been reflected in any indicator one wants to use. 
The last thing which I will touch on is the revival of capital investment. In the manufacturing industries that is up 20 per cent in the March quarter. This is a comparison with the 1977 
March quarter. It is up 20 per cent which is a dramatic increase. Capital expenditure has increased by 8 per cent in the first three months of 1978. I believe that all these matters which have been brought up do show that the Government is concerned to create jobs; it has not had a fall in production; it has not had a sharp fall in consumer confidence. Indeed, no matter which source one uses, no matter which way anybody approaches it, even with the most biased approach one will still come forward with end results which show that unemployment is down, inflation is down, investment is up, capital expenditure is up, consumer confidence is up, total confidence in Australia is up and production is up. I think that that is a pretty good end result when one compares it with what we as a government inherited in 1975. 
I say one last thing. There is one other factor that has to be considered. We have a ministry which is concerned about the Australian people and that is reflected by every single individual who holds that high office and the responsibility under the firm, sensible, mature and statesmanlike leadership of our Prime Minister, who is at present overseas trying to ensure that Australia will receive a greater degree of recognition for our primary produce which is so important to the future of this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-Has the Acting Prime Minister seen reports containing suggestions from various sources that the Government should relax its firm control over the economy and should introduce some stimulation of economic activity by expanding government spending? Does the Government intend to respond to those suggestions? 
My colleagues and I on this side of the House are delighted to be able to support the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is sitting at the table tonight, and the Government on the introduction of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978. Contrary to the assertions made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who has just finished speaking in this debate, the Bill was introduced merely to increase the amount of revenue collected from tomorrow to the end of the financial year. The total amount of increased revenue for that period will be some $65m. In a full year it will amount to $75m. I believe that the reason behind the introduction of this legislation should be mentioned in the House tonight. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made this point very clear in his Budget Speech last night when he stated: 
Import quotas have a certain scarcity value and confer on importers who hold them a substantial advantage over those who do not- giving rise, in many cases, to a 'monopoly' profit; by contrast, protection provided by the tariff gives rise to increased duty collections rather than increased profits for importers. 
I would like to point out that it is not intended that these arrangements should have any additional protective effect. The measure will produce additional revenue amounting to $65m in the 1978-79 financial year and about $75m in the 1979-80 financial year. I believe that what the Treasurer has said is the truth. People must realise that it is important for us to increase the amount of revenue from as many sources as we can during the difficult period we find ourselves in at the present time. The 12te per cent special additional customs duty which will be imposed from tomorrow will apply to imports of certain finished goods which are subject to import ceilings imposed through tariff quota and import licensing controls. The Minister has made it very clear that where practicable goods which are regarded as imports to an industry and entering under quota and licence controls have been exempted from the additional duty. There are some grey areas which always arise in any legislation of this nature. For instance, finished articles of clothing imported in pieces and merely sewn together domestically will be included. 
In addition to the goods upon which this additional duty is to apply now, it is intended that it will apply to goods which at a future time come under quota or licensing control. As goods become no longer subject to those controls, the additional duty will be removed. The imposition of this additional duty is not intended to pre-empt the findings of the review of the administration of the quota system which is currently under consideration by a number of people. That is an area under the control of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
I feel that it is very important for industry as a whole in Australia to make it known that it supports the Government in this action. I call upon industry to advise the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, members of the Government and members of the Opposition that it supports this measure totally. In making this call, I ask for early consideration of the matter by members of industry so that the Government will know from the outside that what it has done in this area is correct and that it has introduced the appropriate measure. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also made mention of the fact that there would be an increase in the cost to the Australian consumer of goods which are imported. I can inform the honourable member that in fact in some cases the high mark-ups which are currently being placed upon some imported goods amount to 500 per cent or 600 per cent. I have seen the customs declaration forms which have been made out at the point of entry of the goods to this country. I know the purchase prices in Asian countries with cheap labour and I also know the retail selling prices. I wish to outline what has happened in the last few years since this mess arose in 1973 after the Whitlam Government reduced tariffs by 25 per cent across the board and some 40 000 people were lost from the industry. Australian manufacturers work on a very much smaller profit margin and have much higher labour costs when manufacturing goods in this country. At the point of sale in the retail outlet, the importer or the individual who is bringing the goods into this country sells those goods to the retailer and they are priced at a slightly lower retail selling price than that of the Australian manufactured article. 
I saw an example of this recently involving a man's shirt manufactured in this country for about $8 and which retailed for $ 1 5.99. The item which was imported into this country for $3.50 landed was retailing in the same store for $ 1 5.50, 49 cents less than the Australian manufactured product. The Australian manufacturer is faced with a horrific situation when we realise the sizable difference in the amount of the mark-up on the imported item and the margin of profit on the Australian product. The importer is working on a profit margin of 400 or 500 per cent as against an average margin of 100 per cent in many areas in Australia at the present time. 
It is also important to realise that many people entered this industry in their early teens. They have worked in the industry and been involved in it for a number of years. They have built up expertise over a period and the industry has had an involvement with those employees. The amount of support which has been given to the industry since the Fraser Government came to office in 1975 has been substantial, particularly in the area of the 40 per cent investment allowance. I am delighted to note that after due consideration of submissions put to the Government and particularly to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, a 20 per cent investment allowance has been considered. It was announced a few months ago that the investment allowance will not cease in 1983 but will continue for another two years until 1985. This is the sort of thing for which this Government stands; it is the type of approach for which this Government stands. The industry and the people involved in it have an assured future. They have a future because they know that our Government is concerned about the jobs of people working in the industry. I cannot say, in all fairness, that the people who were in government during those terrible years of 1972 to 1975 understood or had a concern for people who had spent a lifetime, in some cases, working in the garment and textile industry in Australia. 
I am pleased to see that there are some new members in the Opposition who have an appreciation of the importance of this particular manufacturing sector in the Australian community and that they are starting to bring a little pressure to bear on the individuals who are at the present time in the Opposition shadow ministry. I should point out that because of the type of leadership we have in this House they will remain in the shadow ministry. But I am pleased to see that some honourable members opposite are starting to realise that it is not possible to play around with tariffs as was done by the Labor Government in July 1973. 
The future of the garment and textile industry will mean a great deal for this country. It is not realised generally that the figures of Australian males, females and children are different from the figures of people in other countries. The sizes of garments, the lasts of shoes and the types of cuts that are necessary for all clothing in this country are different from those in most other countries. This applies to underwear garments, swimwear, sportswear and normal day-wear clothing. If honourable members look at the Bill they will see that it covers everything from rubber coated garments, men's suits and clothing, women's dresses, underwear, boys and girls' clothing and babies napkins. It covers the whole range of clothing. 
It is very important to realise that the imposition of an additional duty of 12 te per cent will apply across the board in most areas but that a very important area which has experienced some difficulties in the last few years has been left out. I am referring to the textile area. This Bill applies an additional duty of 1 2 te per cent to the finished garments which are being imported and which have caused the most trouble in the last few years. We have to realise that some of the assertions which have been made in the last few weeks are completely fallacious. Recently, the free trade movement or the free trade groupcall it what you will- came up with a new argument against tariff quotas. Proponents of this argument point to declining levels of employment in the local textile, apparel, and footwear industries since 1974 as being the foundation for their argument. They state that, despite the existence of a wide range of quota arrangements, employment levels continue to fall. They have selected a high employment situation as the starting point of their argument. The boom production and retail conditions in 1973 and 1974 and the levels of employment early in the calendar year of 1974 reflect these conditions. 
The second point that is being used is that throughout 1974 and 1975 the Government attempted to control the disruptive flow of imports by means of voluntary restraint arrangements. I think those of us who were members of this House then realise that that failed completely. These arrangements were shown subsequently to be useless and were replaced progressively by tariff quotas. It was not until mid 1976 that the first semblance of comprehensive tariff quotas was replaced in position by the products of those industries. Since then, quotas have continued to be applied to product groupings on a continuous basis. The last significant additions were made in late 1977. Currently, the Industries Assistance Commission is taking evidence on a further significant range of products. Thus, for the greater part of the period since 1974 the industries concerned were in practical terms exposed to disruptive import flows. It is small wonder, therefore, that employment levels in those industries continued to be eroded despite action taken by the Government. 
The problems which this industry has faced have been horrific. When one compares it with some of the other industries in Australia one sees that some of them have gone completely offshore. I do not want to see the garment and textile industry go off-shore. I stress that the Bill with which we are dealing tonight is not a means of protection. It is merely a means of increasing the revenue derived by the Government. The sum of $65m is a substantial amount of money in anybody's language. The sum of $75m for a full year is considerable amount of money. It is the type of money which we need at the present to reduce a very significant deficit. I strongly believe that the types of measures which the Government introduced in its Budget last nightthis is one of them- will ensure that this country of ours will move forward. They will create extra jobs and reduce the level of inflation. I was delighted to hear the statements today by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in answers to questions that we can look forward to the situation when we will have an inflation rate of 5 per cent. 
I should like to give the House an example of something which is good government. I had drawn to my attention only recently the instance of a man who is involved in charity work and who had budgeted for a 13 per cent inflation rate finding that because we have reduced the inflation rate he had an extra $64,000 which he had not considered would be part of his total amount at the end of the year. That has meant that the particular organisation for which he works will have funds for a new building which will assist some very needy and handicapped people. That is the sort of confidence which is brought about by a reduction in the inflation rate. When we have brought down the inflation rate people will be able to start to budget effectively and they will be able to start to look at the employment situation. That is the key to success. The Budget is aimed at achieving success in that regard. I know that we have received criticism from certain quarters but that is inevitable. The Budget involves a number of considerations, including the matter under consideration tonight, but it is the type of good government and good management which this country has desperately needed. I am pleased to be part of a team which is bringing to the Australian people measures such as this which will ensure that those people who at present do not have jobs in the industry but who want jobs in the industry will be returning to the industry over the next few months and the next few years. 
I believe that it is permissible to range fairly widely in a tariff debate. I feel it is important to mention that a number of people have telephoned me today to congratulate me on these measures. I have been involved in this industry and the reaction has been quite surprising. I have received 14 telephone calls from Sydney and Melbourne. I have not received a telephone call from Brisbane but those honourable members who come from Queensland will realise that today is a public holiday in Brisbane. It is the annual show day; it is the people's day. I think that I will receive a number of telephone calls from Brisbane tomorrow. Those people who did ring me and who are involved heavily in the industry said that they agreed with the Government's assertions that import quotas have given a large number of people a licence to make net profits. 
Recently I met an individual who became an importer three years ago. He asserted with a great deal of pride that last year he earned a total of $2,146,000, That is a lot of money. I do not mind anybody making a success of his life in this country if he works hard. I believe that that is the way it should be. But some people are assured of a substantial amount of money merely because they have a quota. This has happened in a number of areas. That is why some people are selling quotas. If one considers that on a quota for 50,000 units which is being rented out at the present time- it has not been sold- and which is for an operation over two seasons one can pick up the average going rate of $3 to $3.50 for a skirt or a blouse or $5 for a dress one realises that we are looking at a fair amount of money in anybody 'slanguage. 
I believe that the industry itself must stand up and be counted in this regard. The industry itself must speak to government with one voice. I have asked the industry to consider writing to the Minister indicating that certain members of its associations are selling quotas and have obtained quotas unfairly and are not using them for the purpose for which they were originally designed. 
I am delighted to say that a number of people in the industry have considered this matter very carefully and I believe this action will be taking place. The more industry associations speak with one voice the easier it will be for this Government to bring down legislation which will create jobs and ensure that the people in the industry are protected and will remain part of the Australian work force. 
My time has almost expired. Before resuming my seat let me assert very strongly that the legislation before us tonight- the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3)- is not a measure for protection. It never has been and it never will be. I have checked with departmental officers from the Departments of Business and Consumer Affairs, Industry and Commerce and Treasury and without exception they have asserted that this is a measure to increase the revenue. It is something which I totally support for the reasons I have outlined. The rate of 12! per cent, considering the huge margins which are operating at the present time on the input of goods, is very small. I am delighted to be part of a team which will assist the Government in its search for some additional revenue which will be distributed under our type of approach to those people in need and those people who will be involved in this scene. Part of that revenue will be put into research and development grants. Part of the revenue will go to the export incentives which the Government announced a few months ago, and that is the way it should be. We still make the best garments in the world and we have still got a huge market outside this country. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of suggestions that countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations might challenge in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade the Government's recent decision to impose a 121/2 per cent revenue duty on a range of imports'? Has any ASEAN country lodged a complaint with Australia over the Government's action in imposing this duty? 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  have one thing in common- they do not know what they are talking about. In the two speeches we have heard today and in the speech made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide last Thursday not one worthwhile suggestion was put forward; in fact not one suggestion was put forward. There is only one small thing to which one may refer. In a speech last Thursday in a discussion of another matter of public importance which was a complete waste of time, the honourable member for Port Adelaide said that the Federal Government will not even subsidise relief schemes on a dollar for dollar basis. 
I am rather disappointed that we have such an Opposition at present. The only thing that it did when it was in government and running the Treasury bench was to increase unemployment. When it came to government 138,000 people were unemployed and when it left government 328,000 were unemployed. In one year it increased the number of people unemployed in this country by 190,000. It doubled the number of young people who were unemployed in this country. It doubled the unemployment rate for people under the age of 1 9 years. Let us compare that single approach with the one scheme from under which the Labor Government pulled the rug at the end of its period in government. We have eight different schemes which are working and which are aimed at making sure that people will get jobs and will be trained. They are being organised and directed through private industry. It is being done through the people who are going to create permanent situations and not take stop-gap measures. I cannot even criticise the scheme that the Opposition is putting forward because it has none. The only thing that members of the Opposition can do- I refer specifically to the honourable member for Parramatta- is to make some carping and mean criticism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and thus follow in the footsteps of some of his left wing colleagues who are sitting around him at present. 
The Opposition consists of a group of people who claim that they have a degree of communication with the unions. Why do they not talk to those people who are helping the unemployment situation by unreal and unfair wage demands? At present union membership is falling dramatically but unreal logs of claims are put forward every single day of the week. This is something that this country and the employers cannot afford. I hark back to what happened in the three years of Labor's disaster: Four weeks annual leave, 17  'A  per cent leave loading, equal pay and huge wage increases. In 1972 we had a 30 per cent wage and salary advantage. We left government with that position as a fact of life. In 1976 we came back into government with a 40 per cent disadvantage in wage and salaries. We have not stopped being concerned. We have been concerned and we will continue to be concerned, but 
I believe it is most important that we look at the long-term situation and at the problems which will be facing Australia not only in 1978 and 1979 but also in 1980 and 1981. The schemes we have introduced and got working are starting to show extremely worthwhile results. 
Before I get onto those specific schemes I would like to quote from a letter published in the weekend's  Courier-Mail  from  Mr A.  J. Willis,  President  of the Queensland Confederation of Industry. It is a story about unionism and a belief in fairies- I think it is worth while to quote one section: 
In fact, if the Unions' excessive demands in these matters had been successful, we would today need a wheelbarrow to take home the pay packet as a reward for doing no work. 
That is from a man who has been actively involved in industry for a number of years and whose industry peers have elected him as President of the Queensland Confederation of Industry. That is the sort of thing which we are facing in 1978 and which the Opposition is not trying to assist. Yet its members claim with huge crocodile tears that they are concerned about unemployment. Half of them would not know even how to spell the word. 
We have eight schemes which are operating very effectively and I refer firstly to the National Employment and Training scheme for which this year there will be more money. Last year $84.8m was spent on NEAT. This year the allocation has been increased by 44 per cent to $122m. Let us look at the number of people who have been assisted under this National Employment and 
Training  scheme. On 31 December 1975 some 7,736 people were being trained at a total cost of $40.2m. On 1 March 1978 29,102 people were being trained at a total cost of $44.9m. With that realisation in mind and with the increase in moneys this year we are going to assist a huge number of extra people. They will go into the work force and will be sufficiently trained to take up employment with other employers if they choose to move from one to another. On 31 December 1976 3,275 people were involved in the Special Youth Employment Training Program-SYTEP. On 30 April 1978 22,994 people were being assisted under the scheme. Under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Full-time Training scheme the apprentice intake in 1977 was eight per cent above that in 1976. At the end of March 1978 the national apprentice intake was some 10 per cent above the intake at the same time in 1977. In 1976-77 some 43,833' people were being assisted and trained under the CRAFT scheme. The estimated 1977-78 figure is 38,567. 
Have we stopped there? No. We have continued to be concerned about apprentice support programs and the Commonwealth support for 1978-79 will be increased substantially to over $46m from last year's figure of $32.5m. We have further programs which are operating very effectively, including the Community Youth Support scheme. By next June almost 45,000 young people are expected to have been assisted under that scheme. Since the scheme began some 570 projects have been approved. In the period from 31 December 1975 to 1 February 1978 some 33,800 people, at a total cost of $3.44m, have actually gone through the CYSS program, and the approximate total number since 31 December 1 975 is 44,900 at a total cost of $6.67m. 
Again, have we stopped there? Are we showing lack of concern for those people who are unemployed in this country? No. The Government has increased the allocation of funds to CYSS to $9m this financial year compared with the total allocation last year of $5. 75m. This is a rise of more than 50 per cent. Since the program began- these are the up-to-date figures- some 670 projects have come into operation involving approximately 45,000 people. We have not stopped there. The Relocation Assistance Scheme and the Fares Assistance Scheme have received substantial increases in money. The whole thing points to one area of concern, to being more involved and at the same time to having ourselves in a situation in which, when things are not working as effectively as they should be, we have sufficient room to move and to change the schemes to make them more effective. This is what has been done with almost every one of the eight schemes which either have been brought in or changed by this Government. A lack of concern for unemployed people is not part of the policy of this Government, the Prime Minister, or the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  It is a genuine concern which is shown by honourable members on this side of the House. That is why so many honourable members on the Government side were re-elected in 1977. I believe that with the forthrightness, the honesty and the integrity which this Government has shown and which it will continue to show, it will be re-elected again and again. If honourable members opposite feel that the Australian people are stupid enough to listen to the sort of stupid inane criticism which has been bandied around the House today and if they think that they can win votes by making remarks such as the ones that we have heard today, I am sorry to point out to them that it will be proved again at the next election that Labor is just not on. Genuine concern and consideration for people who are unemployed will be part of this Government's continuing concern. The Government will continue to operate these schemes and other schemes as necessary to ensure that we reduce unemployment. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer the Prime Minister to his statement made in this House on 30 May announcing that the Government would implement the plan of action recommended by the Galbally inquiry into post-arrival services for migrants. I further refer the right honourable gentleman to the statement by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech that some $6. 5m would be provided for such programs and services this year. Can the Prime Minister advise the House on the action which the Government has taken to implement the recommendations of this report? 
-Will the Prime Minister inform the House of the Government's attitude to the desirability of the establishment of commercial abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory? 
-My question which is directed to the Minister for Transport refers to Flick, the little fire engine, at Archerfield aerodrome in Brisbane, and to an article in the Brisbane  Sunday Sun  of 24 September concerning the difficulties that the Department of Transport has had in replacing that engine. The article referred to the fact that six tenders were purchased from Britain, that they arrived at the Department of Transport offices in Melbourne, but that after six months of tinkering, they had to be returned. A further tender, which was purchased from America for $150,000 had two engines, which were replaced by one. 
I will take the time of the House only for a few minutes as well because I feel it is important to go back to when the Customs Amendment Bill came in and started operating from 1 July 1976. This actual system was the convention on the valuation of goods for customs purposes, or as commonly known, the Brussels definition of value; or, as it operates in the market place, free on board price values. However, from the time of the legislation being introduced, problems did arise because many people were not clear as to exactly what was a container, a pallet and what was outside packaging. There was a degree of criticism before 1 July when the system was introduced but from the information I have gained over the last few years, the amount of duty paid in that period of time has decreased by some 2 per cent. Firstly, I think it vindicates the Government's move towards this Brussels definition of value for outside packaging by the decrease of 2 per cent. I think the duty that has been levied is a much clearer and simpler way. It is becoming a world wide way of valuing duty. 
Secondly, what was not clear was how to exclude things such as gas bottles which quite obviously come in and goes out, or a metal pallet or metal container. Challenges were brought to it; indeed they went as far as the High Court, and many discussions took place in government. I commend the Minister at the table, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  and also the Department concerned because if one goes back to the time prior to 1 July 1976, the Department did work very hard to try to ensure that everybody did have a clear understanding. I think that even those people who have challenged this particular piece of legislation should realise that the Department put out a Blue Paper. It had a series of notices sent to everybody involved in importing and had a series of meetings throughout the major centres of Australia where goods were coming to this country. 
I think the intention was there and in all fairness the Department did try as much as it possibly could to make the intention clear. I do commend the Minister in taking into consideration that there was a degree of uncertainty in certain quarters. There was a challenge before the courts. He decided to amend the legislation to apply from 10 July 1978 and in so doing I think took into consideration an understanding that a number of people had brought forward at the same time. It gave him an opportunity to exercise a degree of fairness. I am pleased to support the piece of legislation that we have before us this evening. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I am delighted to be participating in the debate on this the first matter of public importance to be considered in the 1 979 parliamentary year. 
-Can I say to the people on the other side of the chamber, who have spoken the greatest load of rubbish - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Brisbane will resume his seat. 
-That is just the most stupid thing I have heard for some time.  (Quorum formed).  It disappoints me greatly that on a matter of public importance, the first to be discussed by the House in 1979, we have a situation, the true facts of which are just not realised by the members of the Labor Party themselves. I suggest that they read an item in today's  Age  headed, 'ALP chief disagrees with view on jobless', from which I would like to quote briefly, as follows: 
The Federal  president  of the ALP,  Mr Neil  Batt - who is still, I hope, the  president  of that organisation: 
. provided a refreshingly optimistic approach to the problem of unemployment in an Australia Computer Society debate last week in what was otherwise an evening of gloom-mongering. 

 Mr Batt attacked the motion that computers had caused widespread unemployment. 
He said he didn't believe the present situation was more difficult for young people than the problems their grandparents had faced. 
He stressed that unemployment was not unusual in the world saying that people should not take pleasure in seeing it as insoluble. 
He said Australia had the capacity to overcome the unemployment problem as it had overcome other problems. 
That was a very positive statement by the  president  of that organisation, in contrast to the critical, negative and narrow approach that has been demonstrated by the two speakers from the Opposition side, who have shown a complete lack of concern for the unemployed of this country. The only proposal that Opposition members have been able to suggest, during the few short months of the recess, has been a series of measures which would in fact increase unemployment as Labor was successful in doing when it was in government between 1972 and 1975. 1 am really and truly amazed. The facts and figures that they refuse to accept are clearly available, in black and white. 
In 1974, 80,000 people were unemployed, but within a very short period thereafter more than 200,000 people were unemployed. That came about, as a result of the actions of a person who had purported at one stage while in Opposition to be a spokesman for manufacturing industry, by the imposition of a 25 per cent tariff cut, which destroyed a number of working men's jobs. During the same period Government expenditure increased out of all proportion. This, allied with the wages explosion, which industry could not afford, resulted in profits being cut. As a result, between November 1974 and November 1975 some 134,000 fewer jobs representing a decrease of 1 1 per cent were available in manufacturing. In the construction industry, there were 51,000 fewer jobs, a decrease of 13 per cent. This was the mess, the disaster, created by the ineptitude of a government which purported to have the support of the people of Australia. I am pleased to have been elected to this Parliament in 1975, and subsequently reelected, by genuine people who were sick and tired of a group of socialists who did not know what they were talking about. 
In contrast, what has this Government done? It has spent $200m of taxpayers' money on, not one scheme, such as the Regional Employment Development scheme which failed and which Labor threw out, but on eight major programs, which has assisted in finding employment for more than 400,000 people. I refer to the Special Youth Employment Training Program, the National Employment and Training scheme and a whole series of other programs which have worked magnificently and, quite frankly, beyond the expectations of a number of people, including Ministers, on this side of the chamber. The Government has continued to provide that support. It has not withdrawn it simply because the programs have become a bit expensive. We are genuinely concerned about the welfare of the people and will continue to be. 
Honourable members opposite fail to realise just what is happening in Australia. Recently I read a report on the stock exchanges of Australia which indicated that 1978 was the most successful year that they had had for some 20 years. 
That has meant that in the manufacturing industry employment has risen by 4,700, the largest increase since 1973. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Port Adelaide will remain silent. 

 -Mr Speaker, that sort of verbige does not worry me one little bit. Employment in the construction industry is up by more than  10.8  per cent. Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show that full-time employment is up by more than  16,000.  That is a start. The only thing you blokes opposite did in  1972  was increase unemployment, inflation and the cost of purchasing a home. This Government has reduced interest rates. Whether Opposition members like it or not, that is a fact of life; it is true. We have more people on overtime than ever before. Overtime has risen in each of the last five months. According to Commonwealth Employment Service figures, unfilled vacancies total  24,929,  an increase of more than  7,000.  The Government has adopted a very positive approach, which is now being reflected, I am pleased to say, in the remarks of some people who purport to be strong supporters of the Australian Labor Party. 
I am delighted to note that the New South Wales Government has currently approved the training of SOO people and that an additional  1,000  will be given jobs when they have completed their training. Unfortunately, at present a Labor Government is in control in that State. South Australia also has increased the number of trainees. It too is unfortunately a Labor State, one which has many formidable problems to overcome also. I feel that this House should consider very seriously matters of public importance that come before it. I have heard a tirade of criticism directed at the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is at the table. The Prime Minister's positive approach of giving a degree of responsibility to that Minister is something that I support totally and that I know others on this side will support also. 
The Australian Labor Party should realise that it left this Government a mess which, quite frankly, it has taken a lot of hard work by many individuals on this side to remedy. We are achieving that almost impossible task. We are reducing the number of people who are in difficulties in this country. We are giving business people an opportunity to make a profit. I am pleased to remind honourable members opposite that for the December quarter retail sales were up by  4.4  per cent. I understand that the trend has continued into  1979  and I believe that it will continue as it has been in the last few months. This is the sort of thing that members of the Australian Labor Party do not understand. They do not understand that unless one has a profit it cannot be taxed. Unless we give people confidence to invest further in their manufacturing plants and thus employ more people, unemployment will not be reduced. We are not a government which operates on effect, but rather on the cause of a problem. The Labor Party is very good at coming up with schemes for solving effectproblems. However, when one looks at the cost one sees that they are unrealistic. When one looks at the situation which obtained in this country in  1975  and compares it with the situation early in  1 979,  one sees a broad area of confidence emerging, one that is reflected in the financial pages of this country, as well as in increased profits. 
I am pleased to be one who has spoken on the Government side in this debate, if only to ensure that with our type of approach and politics we will continue to achieve that degree of confidence within the manufacturing industries, a confidence whose effects will flow right through the economy. 
I was delighted also to see that, for the December quarter, net farm income was up by a further  17V4  per cent. I believe that trend will continue throughout  1979.  All these are positive things- things which are happening. I am a member of a government that is deeply concerned about unemployed people and I want to help promote any scheme brought forward to assist them, even any worthwhile scheme that comes from the Opposition. Unfortunately, in three years in this Parliament I have yet to hear anything worth while or even remotely constructive come from the Opposition benches. In future honourable members opposite should think twice before they stand up and bring to the attention of the Australian people their complete ineptitude and failure to understand what is going on in Australia today. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion has concluded. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to an article in a weekly publication by Malcolm Booker about Australia's defences? Has any assessment been made of  Mr Booker's  article? If so, with what result? 
Since this statement was made to the Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  earlier today, we have heard a tirade of personal abuse and criticism against him and against this Government which by adopting the correct economic approach to put this country back on its feet, has done more for Australia in the last three years, than most people imagined could be done. I think that is is very important to note that the tirade, issuing from honourable members on the opposite side of this chamber, came from members of an Australian Labor Party government which in three years- from 1972 to 1975 - presided over the greatest disaster this country has suffered. 
Let us compare the situation when the Australian Labor Party came into office in 1972 with the situation faced in 1975 and early 1976 by the Fraser coalition Government when it was elected to office. The Labor Government inherited a very strong economy, a very slight inflation rate and a very small number of unemployed. It then proceeded to destroy a very happy country- a country whose prosperity had been built up over the years, particularly in the 1950s and 1960s, by a lot of dedication and hard work. Labor deliberately fuelled inflation to destroy the savings of old people, the pensioners of our society and the disadvantaged people of Australia. The Labor Government deliberately set out to destroy the savings accumulated by those people who had worked hard for many years. It attacked the family unit. It did not want to see certain aspects of the family unit continue in our society. It created unrest. It created a degree of dissension amongst certain elements in our society. Most of all, it started a gigantic attack on the very heart of our society, the free enterprise system. 
It continued that attack for the three years it was in power. In the last three years in opposition it has maintained that vitriolic attack on a group of people who have done so much to build Australia. Members of the Labor Party do not understand that unless a profit is made taxes cannot be imposed. The Labor Government bloated the public sector to the extent that even people who had been supporters of that party all their lives left the party. They no longer are involved with that organisation. It was an example of socialism gone mad. The Australian people realised what they had done wrong in the elections of 1972 and 1974. In December 1975, the people of Australia elected, with the biggest majority ever, the first Fraser Ministry. The first Fraser Government came into being. We inherited an economic mess and an economy in disaster. We had to make some extremely difficult decisions. We had to cut Government expansion in areas where we thought money was being wasted. We had to take pensioners and those people who are disadvantaged in our society out of the political football arena. We had to attack inflation. That became our first priority. 
I should like to compare the value of the household dollar and the inflation rate at the time of the Labor Government with what has happened under this Government. In December 1972, the inflation rate was 4.5 per cent. Under Labor's mismanagement, inflation reached a peak of 1 7.6 per cent. We have just entered 1 979. The figures available show that 1978 was a highly successful year; that the rate of inflation was 7.9 per cent. At the time the Labor Party came into government in December 1972 the inflation rate for home costs was 7.5 per cent. Under the expertise that that particular organisation- that socialist party, the Labor Party- gave to Australia, that figure rose to 23.2 per cent. The home cost spiral for 1978 under the Fraser Government administration was 5.9 per cent. Farm costs are another aspect which I think is important. In December 1972 the rate of inflation in farm costs was 7.5 per cent. Under Labor, that reached an all time high of 3 1 .9 per cent. We can reflect on the situation that last year that figure dropped dramatically to 7.4 per cent. 
As we enter 1979, the second year of the second Fraser Ministry, we can look to the future. I think it is worth while to point out that one of the most important elements that is facing Australia is the degree of technological change with which we have to live. It took 10 years- between 1950 and 1960- for man to double his knowledge. Today, we are increasing our knowledge by 100 per cent every  2Vi  years. Within a few years we will be increasing our knowledge by 100 per cent every three months. 
In the main, this development has been brought about by what has happened in a number of very important and specific areas. In 1947 we had the dramatic development of the discovery of the transistor. The transistor was replaced in the early 1960 by a little unit called the microelectronic chip. On the tip of one's finger, which is about the size of a microelectronic chip, one can fit about 100,000 transistors. The unit which would be about 4 inches by 6 inches by 8 inches in size can store some millions of units of electronic impulses. A similar storage unit a few years ago would have been a very large piece of equipment. In 1960, there were no sales of microelectronic chips in the world. This year sales of microelectronic chips will be worth $3 billion. It is estimated that, by the year 1985, sales will total $5 billion and by 1990 the figure will be about $10 billion. What does this mean to our society? If we take a very simple example and compare the degree of technology and advancement that we have achieved now in our society with the progress of the Wright Brothers, it means that the Wright Brothers would have been on the moon a week after they first started to fly. 
I am pleased to note that there are some people in the Labor Party who realise that technology is not a bad thing, but rather is something of which we should not be afraid. We should grasp the technological advancements that man is making in these areas and utilise that to the benefit of all Australians. I should like to refer to some of the statements that have been made recently by  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and  Mr Neil  Batt, the newly elected  President  of the Australian Labor Party at a seminar on computers. They took a very different approach to that taken by some members of the Labor Party who reside in Canberra and who are members of the Opposition. 
We are now facing a situation in this country where a positive export program has been adopted. As a result of this program I believe that Australian goods once more will spread across the face of this earth. I happened to be involved in a particular export program for a number of years until 1973 when the then government of the day, the Labor Party, decided to change around the whole export program because it said that Australian industries did not need the degree of assistance which was rendered to it at that particular time. I and a number of other people who had been exporting for a number of years had built up a degree of expertise. We employed a number of staff and enjoyed good communications with a number of people throughout the South Pacific area. After the Labor Government came into office we could no longer afford to continue to export Australian goods. Allied with what we then faced in the next few years with huge increases in wage costs, we found ourselves in a situation where it became no longer economically viable to export Australian goods. 
I am pleased to see that in 1979 Labor leaders and trade unionists in this country are heeding the call of the people who will be their future employers. The business community of this country has been saying for some time that an increase in one man's wages is another man's job. Quite frankly, I am delighted to find that a number of people are starting to realise just exactly how true that statement is. We have a greater degree of company confidence than we have experienced previously. I note with interest some of the headings which appear in today's  Australian.  I will name only a few of them. When one reads the financial sections of newspapers and one reads about the future of our country which is so important, one realises that confidence is starting to reappear because of increased profits. Some of these headings are: 'Sims converts big loss to $2m profit'; 'Wool broker doubles dividend, Winchcombe Carson Ltd'; 'Acmil tops $6m in tough half; 'Car parts group in strong recovery'. The Borg- Warner group in Australia is back in a profitable situation. That is just from the  Australian  newspaper of today's date. 
I refer to yesterday's Brisbane  Courier-Mail.  Some of the headings are as follows: 'Dividend rise by Perpetual'; 'Union Carbide jumps after strong second'; .C - --- Ltd increased net profit by 15.5 per cent'; 'Santos in big leap. Santos Ltd more than doubled net profit from $2,379,000 to $4,788,000'; 'RTV has solid lift. Rockhampton Television Ltd posted strong gains in revenue in the six months to December 31 1978'; 'Big recovery by LNC. LNC Industries Ltd has added strength to its first quarter earnings recovery with a 77.2 per cent jump in net profit for the December half year period! '. That is the sort of thing that will build Australia. That is the sort of thing from which a government can gain revenue. By gaining revenue from those people, we come to the first stage, which is profit, and the second stage, which is employment. The increase in the last few months in the amount of increased productivity and in the amount of increased overtime being utilised by organisations has been quite dramatic, and as that lead time increases there will be a flow on then to employment. I am delighted to be associated with a particular statement brought down by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today which gives us an opportunity to reflect on what we, as a government, have achieved, what we have done right, to look at the areas in a very positive manner to ensure that we continue those policies and at the same time express an involved degree of concern which we have had for some time on the unemployment problem. 
Recently we heard some tirades, and yesterday I involved myself with the Minister concerned on a matter of public importance. However, the programs that this Government has brought down and utilised in the last three years were well chosen programs with expenditure of some $200m to assist into jobs over 400,000 people. At the same time we have a problem. As we have seen only recently in some newspaper articles there is still a problem- the Prime Minister referred to this today- in that there are people from various sections of the business community who are still saying that they cannot get people to work for them in jobs that they have vacant. I believe we should adopt a bipartisan approach. If people stopped playing politics with unemployment- I believe this Government has been very fair in its approach- and expressed a genuine approach for those people, and if the Opposition could take a very positive approach, many of the people who are not playing the game in that area could be assisted into a positive approach in relation to employment. 
I believe there are a number of people in this country who at present would very much like to become involved in a job but who in some cases do not know how to go about it. A number of my colleagues and I on many occasions have spent hours out and about to ensure that we do get the type of communication which is necessary to get people into jobs. At this stage may I praise those people who are involved in the Community 
Youth Support Scheme in my federal division of Brisbane. They are working in conjunction with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Unlike members of the Opposition who have seen fit to criticise the Commonwealth Employment Service, I take a very positive approach and compliment the Commonwealth Employment Service which has worked so ably and which has achieved so much in conjunction with my Community Youth Support Scheme people. They have achieved a very significant increase in the number of people who have obtained jobs in the 1978, 1977 and 1976 years. I look forward to a very positive and successful year. I want to see our inflation rate decreases even further, and I believe it will. 
At the outset I think it is important to make my position very clear. I totally support the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  known as the Lusher motion. I do this after a great deal of thought and many years of standing up and being counted as one of those people who totally oppose abortion. What is happening in Australia today when we as a Commonwealth government can allow funding to over 60,000 people for abortions? Under item 6469 last year some 50,900 abortions were performed and paid for with taxpayers ' money. Under items 6460 and 6464 1 17,600 operations were performed. If we take a certain number of those operations which terminated a pregnancy- say 30 per cent- we would be looking in respect of item 6469 at somewhere in the vicinity of 80,000 people whom we are killing each year in our hospitals and clinics around Australia. 
What is wrong with Australia when we fail to remember that honourable members in this House in 1973 rejected by 98 votes to 23 a motion which would give abortion funding on demand? I believe the time has come when we have to revert to some of the very principles of our life. We have to look for the reverence of human life- To talk about the quality of life instead of the intrinsic sanctity of every life, especially a defenceless baby, is to descend to the level of Hitler's superiority-inferiority complex. The unborn child is just as much a human being as any other child. Birth is merely a change of residence. Any civilisation worthy of the name has always held human life as something to be cherished above any material object. 
Christian and Australian reverence for human life cannot long survive in a society that surrenders to doctors, mothers or anyone else a choice to determine who shall live and who shall die. The unborn child is at a disadvantage in a world where adults have all the power. That poor little child is small and naked, without a voice or even a name. It has no one to defend it except sympathetic adults, just as it has no one to attack it and condemn it to death except selfish calloused adults. As far as abortion is concerned, what is good for the doctor's purse is bad for the mother, morally and mentally. It is lethal for the child. 
The central issue is not primarily what we do to those little children, but what we do to ourselves by indefinitely letting little ones be killed. Such a situation cannot be continued without irreparable damage to the moral sensibilities of our people and to the most cherished principles of humanity, especially in our own Australian society. For centuries abortion was condemned throughout the western world as an outrageous moral and legal crime. Yet now it is presented to us as fitting, as a morally good and socially beneficial act. Christianity, which taught that we should lay down our life for our friend, is now interpreted by some people to mean taking another's life for our own comfort and convenience. People who argue against taking the life of a convicted murderer are found the same day arguing in favour of killing innocent children in their mother's womb. Doctors whose whole purpose heretofore was to maintain life, now use their skills to destroy our children. The powerful and guilty do away with the weak, the innocent and the defenceless. 
We live in a country that encourages the protector of a child, his or her own mother, to become the very agent of his destruction. Australia must return to its senses. We must protect the lives of every human being, born and unborn not only for their sake but for the sake of all of us who may some day become victims of the new ethic' adopted by a small minority of Australians. To pretend that the child is not alive until the moment of birth is to say that it all of a sudden becomes human. What was it a moment before birth- an animal? 
I believe that the reverence of human life is something we must consider in this debate. I am also convinced that we must realise what our position should be in society. I come from a State which very fortunately enforces its anti-abortion laws. In Queensland abortions are not performed in clinics or public hospitals. The sensibility of that State and the way in which the problems have been approached are something that should be taken up in other States, particularly New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. I believe that the Government is falling down by not taking on these issues. We as a parliament and as a group of elected representatives of 14.2 million Australians must realise that we have been elected to this place to make decisions. I totally support the motion. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek your indulgence. Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I attempted to attend a division of the House. I arrived at the doors when the bells were still ringing but the doors were shut. Normally the situation is that I can enter the House when the bells are still ringing. I wish this matter to be recorded in the minutes of the House. 
-Has the Prime Minister seen statements that inflation could be reduced to 2.5 per cent by a plan which would make the rich pay more in tax and the poor pay less? Does he believe that this would be a viable way of reducing inflation? 
-Has the Minister for Industrial Relations seen recent advertisements by the Australian Bank Employees Union which begin with the statement 'Full indexation or else'? Do these advertisements warn of disruption in the banking industry if full indexation is not granted? Will the advertisements prejudice the Australian Bank Employees Union case before the national wage case currently being heard by the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Does the Minister consider that these statements are provocative in the extreme? 
In speaking in this cognate debate on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill, I feel that one of the points made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has just taken his seat again, and the criticism that he offered of the Government in respect of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill was a little unfair. When the Australian Labor Party was in government between the years 1972 and 1975, firstly, it did not do anything about the same situation. Secondly, the Bureau of Customs has to be able to move very quickly under the regulations and by-laws it administers. In the clothing and textile area, particularly clothing, a change of fashion can make quite a dramatic difference. I will instance the type of situation which occurred some years ago. 
The standard length for a woman's dress was in the vicinity of 42 inches. For the purpose of classification, a child 's dress was 32 inches. Overnight the 'mini' arrived in this country. Most males were delighted. But it meant that a garment for a fully grown woman was 3 1 inches or, in a lot of cases, 29 inches. A number of importers decided- I believe quite unfairly- to use the by-law relating to children's dresses to bring in garments at a substantially reduced penalty and substantially reduced tariff rates. Many millions of garments were involved. In order to obtain the information that is normally necessary before legislation can be put before this House, the then Department of Customs and Excise was given the right to amend a number of clauses and those amendments were debated at the end of a parliamentary session. It had that right to amend a number of things. I appreciate the thought behind what the honourable member put to the House, but I believe it is important to cover the sort of exceptions which I have just instanced. This is a means of ensuring that many Australians will continue in employment, and that their industry will not be wiped out because of unfair dumping or unfair price competition from overseas. 
We must realise that we pay very high salaries and wages. Our terms and conditions of employment are among the best in the world- if not the best. Recently I had a comparison between the average weekly wage of the Australian worker and his counterpart in America, the country which is considered to be the be all and end all of the free enterprise system. I found that in this country employers were paying salaries somewhere in the vicinity of $47 a week more. In this general debate on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, I feel it is very important to mention at one stage exactly what the situation is in relation to where we stand as a nation in the very vital and very important area of protection. 
At a stage when the Government is mid-way through its term of office and we are considering what we should be doing between now and the early part of the 1 980s and what we will be doing in the 1980s in relation to the industries in this country which survive under a certain degree of protection, be it tariff or quota, we should get ourselves into perspective. I think that Australia has been very fair, at the expense of thousands of jobs. There has to be a fine balance between what we as a nation should do for individual Australians who will be employed only through the existence of tariff and quota walls- in other words, protection generally- and what we will do in relation to the developing nations as well as what we will do with our trading partners and what we will do in the general world scene. In making these decisions we also have to take into consideration what sort of industry we have in this country and what sort of expertise has been built up over many years. That consideration should be made right across the gamut of manufacturing industries in this country. 
There is a significant contribution to Australia in the form of taxation for government revenue from the allied industries that survive on protected manufacturing industries, such as transport companies, and the decentralised areas of New South Wales and Victoria in particular. The development in my own State of 
Queensland outside the highly industrial Brisbane area has meant that a number of small town businesses have been through very difficult times in the last few years because of the state of the agricultural industry. I have met chemists, local store keepers, local transport operators, individual taxi drivers and others living in small towns who have survived the very severe downturn in beef prices and other primary products over the last few years by the very fact that the local manufacturing company producing clothing, textiles and a whole range of manufactured goods has kept them viable and profitable as well as keeping many other townspeople in employment. That has come about because the people employed in those protected industries were paid on a weekly basis and they were able to pay cash for the goods and chattels which they needed whereas the farm industry had to have extended credit. 
I am delighted to be a supporter of a government which has presided over the resurgence of the primary production area. The wheat crop this year is the best that this country has ever had. It has been brought about by the very fair- 40 per cent- investment allowance introduced in 1976, which has meant that the plant and equipment that the primary producer is using today is the most efficient and the best in the world. He has been able to put more and more acreage under the plough, plant more and more crops and, at the same time, invest in the type of equipment which will give him the return on the programs that he feels is necessary. 
Against that background there is an emotive argument in favour of the free trade approach. I believe that there are sound arguments on both sides. A very simple example is that if the Australian clothing and textile industry were to increase its market share by 3 per cent the employment in that industry would increase by some 7,000 jobs. If that market share were multiplied there would be a very significant increase in the number of people who could be employed. On a number of occasions I have had to disagree with my colleagues in the Opposition. I have maintained for some time that dramatic effects resulted when the Australian Labor Party changed its approach from a protectionist party to a free trade party. Between 1972 and 1975, which was the first opportunity it had had to do something following 23 years of not being in government, it listened to the academic arguments put forward not by people in the market place but by people who were looking at the situation with a slide rule approach. The reduction of 25 per cent in tariffs across the board in July 1973- in every single protected manufacturing industry in this country- meant that thousands of people lost their jobs. I would like Opposition members to stand up and be counted. If their concern were genuine they would say quite frankly that we would achieve the degree of employment about which they claim to be concerned by saying: 'Let us have some protected industries in this country and let us continue that approach. 
Over the last few years I have been involved with a number of fairly important committees which this Government has formed. The most important is the Textiles and Apparel Industry Advisory Council. My colleague from the Opposition, the honourable member for Adelaide, is a representative of his party on that Council. It has been pleasing to see at meetings of the Textiles and Apparel Industry Advisory Council the way in which unions, management, manufacturing industry, consumer advocates, the retailers of Australia and the public servants involved in business and consumer affairs, industry and commerce and productivity all work together to try to achieve the best situation for all Australians. I believe that, over and above the factual situation, the whole scene must be looked at in the broad. It cannot be looked at in a narrow perspective. Far too often, the Industries Assistance Commission has a tendency to look at individual industries in isolation. There is an interrelationship between a number of industries in this country.  Major organisations  such as ICI Australia Ltd produce significant quantities of synthetic fibre which is used in textiles and clothing. At the same time it is used in vast amounts for webbing in the production of car seats for motor vehicles produced by the Ford Motor Company of Australia and other car producers in this country. All these things should be taken into account when considering the degrees of protection which are necessary. Unless we consider the whole and stop looking at the world through a key hole, we will have a continuing problem and that continuing problem will mean that more and more Australians will lose their jobs. When they lose their jobs those employed will have to pay more tax to provide the assistance which the Government normally gives to these people. 
I feel that in this cognate debate I must touch upon the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill. This Bill has brought a number of measures into being. It is a very short Bill. The most important thing I have learnt about it from Government discussions and discussions with people outside is that the liquefied petroleum gas produced in the refineries in this country was being flared off- it was not being used- and the natural gas from Bass Strait was being diverted to home consumption and escaping the excise which the Government quite rightly should receive. 
The Government, in introducing this Bill has been very mindful of the fact that that the Bass Strait prices had to be increased to accord with the energy policy objectives which the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  had set down some time ago. The Minister felt that the only way to do that was to remove the anomaly in current pricing. Were he not to do so, there would be an additional profit to the producers. Therefore the Government has decided that it would be appropriate for an increased contribution to revenue to be made by increasing the excise levy on naturally occurring liquefied petroleum gas from the present $12.60 per kilolitre to $ 1 3 per kilolitre. That is an increase of 40c per kilolitre. 
A significant energy policy issue arises from the anomolous situation whereby different prices apply to products used for identical purposes. This has brought about a rather wasteful situation in terms of energy use because some LPG, which is produced as a normal part of the refining process, cannot be marketed at the justified price and as a result is being burnt to waste. As I mentioned earlier, it is being flared off. In terms of energy policy, this not an acceptable situation. Quite frankly, I agree with the Minister, who has brought forward this legislation and agreed that this situation should be changed. The Government has also concluded that it cannot allow the situation to continue and possibly worsen, especially because of the energy conservation issues involved and that, in the circumstances, the appropriate course would be to remove naturally occurring LPG from the application of the Prices Justification Act. This will enable the Bass Strait producers to bring their prices into line with the prices for the ex-refinery product. 
Part of this Bill also brings to the legislative table a decision- in this regard I look forward very much to the interdepartmental committee's recommendations- which allows certain government departments and statutory bodies such as the Australian National University, the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Atomic Energy Commission to import certain goods free of duty. I congratulate the Auditor-General for bringing this matter to the attention of the Government last year. The Auditor-General again brought the matter to the attention of the Government this year and the interdepartmental committee has brought forward its interim recommendations. We must have an early report on what should be done to ensure that the present situation no longer continues because other people who are not in that unique situation of being members of a statutory body or a government department are covered very well by Acts which prohibit them from importing goods free of duty except in specific situations. Although this is only a small part of the Bill before the House today, it is a very important part. 
A cognate debate on these Bills gives people an opportunity to range rather widely across a number of areas. What we do in this area and in the excise area and the customs tariff area is very important to the Government's revenue. I believe that those people who are utilisers of things to which the excise tariff applies should be making a contribution towards the Australian economy. If it is necessary to increase charges on occasions, I believe that that is a much fairer way of raising revenue than the alternative method, which is to increase income tax or company tax. 
A very difficult situation exists at present which I would like to see changed. A number of people have been given quotas- I emphasise the word 'given'- which have made them millionaires almost overnight. The people involved in the manufacturing industry of Australia in the main have taken many years to build a successful organisation. They have done it by hard work and dedication, and by gathering around them a team of people who were prepared to work hard. They had a vision and they shared that vision with those people. They went forward to manufacture, to make a profit, to build their factories, their towns and their local regions. But in the last few years we have seen a group of so-called entrepreneurs being given 'gold stock' by the Government in the form of quotas. Those quotas have been utilised for the profit of a very small number of people. I think we should review these things in the broad. We must realise that it is our responsibility as a Federal Parliament to take those matters aboard and make decisions which will be beneficial to the majority of Australians and not just to the few. 
I oppose the amendment and support the Government's legislation, the Excise Amendment Bill (No. 2 ). Things have been lost sight of in the fury of the words that have been spoken since the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 24 
May. This Government has adopted a very responsible attitude on behalf of the Australian people in respect of the supplies of oil which have been discovered in Australia, the existing oil fields and the future oil wells which we know must be drilled because Australia needs to achieve a satisfactory degree of self-sufficiency. Many people believe that this oil exists beneath the Australian mainland and in the off-shore areas around Australia. I believe that the revenue to be gained from this excise- some $166m according to the Treasurer's statement- will go a long way towards providing the type of infrastructure needed by Australia. 
This Bill will provide Australians with their due reward and at the same time encourage further oil exploration. It will encourage oil producers to drain the last drop of oil from every well and oil field that we have at present and those discovered in the future. 
Having listened to the rhetoric from certain Opposition spokesmen since 24 May it appears that they do not understand the great difficulties now facing the world because of the current energy crisis. Numerous Opposition speakers have opposed the mining of uranium. Numerous Opposition speakers have justified their actions in the years from 1972 to 1975, and the horrific effects of them upon Australia. This legislation will increase, from 1 July 1979, the existing $18.90 per kilolitre or $3 per barrel excise levy on oil priced at import parity by an amount equal to the increase that will by then have taken place in the import parity price since 31 December 1978. This measure will effectively give to the Australian people, in the form of revenue to the Government, a substantial increase in revenue if prices set by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increase. 
I support this legislation totally because it will ensure that the oil producers at Barrow Island, Moonie and Bass Strait will push as many barrels of oil as possible down the pipelines. Further, there will be a great incentive for people to look for more oil in those regions. It will ensure that oil exploration is continued. The Moonie field in Queensland, the State I am proud to represent in Canberra, is one example. Queensland is a great State. It has many natural, wonderful beauties, not the least of them being the Moonie oil field. That field is now supplying gas to Brisbane. In addition, a substantial amount of light crude oil is produced. That oil is broken down and used in a number of towns in the region. A small cracking plant was built to handle this oil and it is used at Miles and other towns. This may seem an insignificant amount by comparison with the giant oil fields in Bass Strait but it is important. 
I believe that the legislation introduced by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and the way he has approached the problems of the energy crisis of 1979, on behalf of the Government team under the leadership of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  is what is needed now. For far too long have we heard a great deal of rhetoric from the Opposition. The Labor Party, during its period of office between 1972 and 1975, dramatically changed the progress that had been made in the search for oil over a number of years. Oil is a very important component of the energy problems which the world faces today. I again congratulate the Minister for the stand he has taken and for his speech of 5 April 1 979. 1 urge those who have not read that statement concerning the development and implementation of a national energy policy to do so. 
This Government came to office in 1975 and last year 52 oil wells were drilled in this country, double the number drilled during the previous three years. One hundred oil wells were drilled but in 1976 there were only 19. During the next five years about $500m will be spent on petroleum exploration and drilling. Between 83 and 143 wells will be drilled in 1979. Between 60 and 97 will be drilled on-shore in 1 979. Off-shore, between 23 and 46 wells will be drilled in 1979. Even if the lowest figure in each case proves to be the correct figure the number of wells drilled during 1979 will still be the highest for the last seven years. 
At present about 62 off-shore permits are current. This Government has issued 28 permits in the past two years. Compare that with the two off-shore leases issued by the Labor Government in the three years from 1972 to 1975. If one does so one realises the short-term thinking of the Labor Government. The Australian people were placed in an unfair position as a result of that type of approach. The Government is now thinking of issuing a further 20 on-shore permits. I am delighted to say that at present there are 70 exploration permits current and they will be in operation for the next few years. 
I think that in 1 979 Australia must look forward to the 1980s with vigor and confidence. I believe that we have to be part of the total world scene in accepting responsibility in regard to energy resources. We cannot accept the responsibility of saying: 'Yes, we are going to take money from major oil producers and use it for the benefit of the people of Australia'. The Government is doing this in the light of the difficult situation that has arisen in Iran in the last few months. If one had asked a few years ago whether there would be a problem about the flow of oil supplied from Iran, I believe most people would have said no. It is very fortunate that these problems occurred in Iran and not in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia has the capacity to increase its production of oil by pumping at the well head. It could do so to such an extent that it could overcome all problems if the oil flow from Iran ceased immediately. That is a unique situation. But if the position were reversed- if something of a political nature created problems in Saudi Arabia- no other country could possibly take up the extra production which would be needed to meet Saudi Arabia 's current supplies to the world. 
I am delighted to be part of a team of people who have adopted the sensible attitude of realising that we live in a changing and difficult world. Huge amounts of money are being earned from oil by certain countries. Aramco, the Arabian and American Oil Co., in Saudi Arabia has a net income of $ 150m a day. That, in anybody's langauge, is an enormous amount of money. We have heard criticism about the energy policies which have been brought forward by this Government. We have 27Vi per cent of the known uranium sources in the world. It is a form of energy that presents some problems. But the oil burning furnaces that produce energy in certain parts of the world and the coal burning furnaces that produce it in others, including this country, have their problems in relation to pollution of the environment and other matters which people do not like. We have faced the difficult situation presented by the energy crisis by looking at the amount of oil that we are currently producing. Earlier today we passed legislation concerning the imposition of an excise on liquefied petroleum gas. I refer to the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill. Further consideration must be given to the use of that form of energy. The whole energy scene in Australia must be looked at from the window. It cannot be looked at through a keyhole. 
Certain people who oppose the policies of the Government have not bitten the bullet to the extent of saying: 'What are they doing? Will these policies be advantageous to the majority of Australians?' They should look carefully at what has been said by the Ministry and the advice that has been offered from all round the world. They should consider the amount of time that Ministers have spent overseas making an assessment of the situation. The discussions that have been held on this subject with overseas oil producers have been successful to the extent that today three of the 10 deep sea oil drilling wells in the world are operating in Australian waters. I understand that it is proposed to move a fourth one into Australian waters. This type of exploration does not involve small amounts of money. In the vicinity of $ 10m is the minimum amount that will be required to put down one exploration well in the off-shore region in the north western area of Western Australia. That, in anybody's language, is a lot of money. 
We are offering incentives to oil companies to come to Australia to explore. I am one of those who believe that this country has been blessed with many great riches, not the least of which is oil. I think that we will find further oil fields and that that oil will be utilised to the benefit not only of Australians but also other countries in the region. That is the type of approach that would be adopted by any sensible government. We are in the throes of looking at an LPG situation in the area of the North West Shelf which I understand is to be utilised by the major industries of Japan and other areas, including Australia. That development will cost billions of dollars. We are a small nation with a small population. Under a socialist government we would be looking at the imposition of a higher tax to fund that development and, as usual, we would fall flat on our faces. 
Under this Government's administration an incentive has been given to major oil producing companies in the world. Those companies have huge resources at their backing. We have said to these companies: 'If you spend your money here on paying our people to explore for and develop our oil resources we will support you to the extent of giving you an incentive to do that'. That is a way in which to attract money from outside the country. That is a way in which to bring in the expertise which is currently lacking in this country. If one looks at what happened during the three years of socialist rule in this country one will see that only two or three wells were drilled. Compare that with what we have had after only a few very short years of good, fair and honest government that looks at the situation properly and gives incentives, lt is very easy for the people who do not know what they are talking about to criticise multi-national corporations. I can only say that the giant oil and mining companies of the world have provided an increasing degree of wealth to this country through company taxation and the personal taxation of their employees. 
They have been able to teach skills to Australians. At the same time, they have provided an infrastructure of understanding and communication which did not occur until a few years ago. 
I am convinced that this Bill is very important. It indicates clearly to the people of Australia that what we have in the country is to be protected. We will permit development in such a way that we get the right amount of revenue and energy from the different sources that we have in this country at present. At the same time we have taken steps concerning the windfall profits derived from price increases by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Some $166m in revenue is to be derived from the windfall situation which has resulted from increased oil prices flowing from OPEC decisions. The way in which this legislation has been brought down in 1979 will give increased confidence to a number of companies which are yet to be involved in dealings with Australia. We have said that what they find will be theirs and that we will not be increasing our revenue from that. At the same time there will be incentives for them to get out and explore. I feel that this is the way in which we should approach something which is an Australian resource. 
I conclude by saying that the criticism that has been made of the Government is very unfair. It has failed to take into consideration that the energy crisis is one of the greatest problems that the world faces at present. Our approach to this matter has been to look at it in a sensible light, realising the impact that it has on every Australian. The Government's approach has been sensible and mature. We appreciate what will happen as a result of the introduction of the legislation under consideration tonight, which relates to a measure announced by the Treasurer on 24 May. It is indicative of the type of good government that Australia has come to expect. I believe that the events of 1979 have shown that the policy which has been stated by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  is fair and wise and gives due consideration to an Australia which is going forward under a government which knows what it is doing. 
Unlike some of the members who have been speaking from the Opposition benches in the last few days, I am proud to be a member of a government which has taken into consideration the genuine concern of a number of people in this country and brought down a responsible Budget which takes into consideration what members of this Government have brought to the Ministry. I start by congratulating the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on a Budget which is going to keep this country in the forefront of nations in the Western world. The major statement that  Mr Howard  made when he brought down the Budget last Tuesday week - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Treasurer said: 
One persistent theme has dominated this Government's conduct of economic policy since its election in 1 975. 
That has been the uncompromising nature of its attack upon inflation as the fundamental and most enduring cause of the economic difficulties of the 1 970s. 
 I reaffirm the determination of this Government to maintain that attack. 
I think that statement by the Treasurer was a responsible one and one which has been supported by every member on this side of the Parliament. Unlike the people who are in Opposition and who will remain in Opposition for ever and a day, we are not a government which is concerned about ripping-off in gigantic lumps in the form of taxation. I note with interest that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has brought down a proposal that those people who earn in excess of $30,000 a year will pay in the order of 75c to 80c in the dollar. It is an absolute disgrace that a group of people which purports to be an alternative government announces that type of policy to the Australian people. As at 1 December every person in this country will be paying less tax than they are at present. 
Let us look at some of the differences in taxation rates which will apply from 1 December. In the case of a person earning $200 a week, the weekly deducation before 1 December will be $45.20. The weekly deducation after 1 December 1979 will be $41.85. That is a significant reduction of $3.35. If we look at the average weekly wage we see that the deducation in that area will be $4.45 for a taxpayer without dependants. A taxpayer with a dependent spouse earning $245 a week will have his weekly deduction reduced by $4.45. If he earns $200 a week the reduction will be $3.35. 
Let us look at the taxation rates that this Government brought down in 1976, 1977, 1978 and now in this year's Budget and compare those with the 1975 Budget scales of the then Labor Government. In January 1979 a person earning $22 1 a week under the Labor Party scales as applied in 1975- this is not taking into consideration the higher scales which would apply under the alternative Budget that the Leader of the Opposition announced the other night- would pay $61.70 in weekly deductions in comparison with the rate of deduction which apply under this Government's taxation scales of $52.55. That is a significant difference. Let us compare those deductions with the December 1979 deductions for a person on average weekly earnings of $245. The deduction under Labor scales would be $72.65 a week for a person without dependants. 
Under this Government's taxation policies, the weekly deduction would be $56.50. 1 think that shows a significant difference between the two forms of approach in relation to taxation of the Australian people. 
As a government, we did not stop at just reducing income tax. At the same time we looked at a number of other areas of concern. I and a number of my colleagues on this side of the House supported the Government's previous Budget, but due to a number of changing factors in the economy, notwithstanding the 4 per cent wage flow on of November 1978, the target in relation to inflation that had been set by the Government at that time was not achieved. Consequently some people in our community were disadvantaged. I speak with a great deal of feeling for a number of wonderful people who have made this country what it is today. Those people are the pensioners and the aged people of our community. They are the people who over the years that I have represented them as the member for Brisbane I have grown to know and to like very much. They have a great understanding of the problems of Australia. Most of them, very fortunately, are not voters for the Opposition party. They are people who have a genuine love for Australia and a knowledge of what Australia is all about. I believe that we have done the right thing by giving them twice yearly indexation of their pensions. 
I also feel that the Government, by moving forward in relation to pensioner health benefit cards and expanding the eligibility for them, has taken into consideration that supporting parents, widows and sole parents will also be receiving a number of fringe benefits for which they were not eligible prior to this Budget. The income test limits for eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards had not been altered since 1973. I often hear the claims of members of the Opposition that theirs is a party of concern, theirs is the only party that has ever done anything for welfare recipients in this country, they are the leaders in all these so-called areas of concern. I refute and totally disagree with that statement. The present Government is the Government which was in power for 23 years from 1949. Unfortunately, for a period of three years this Government was not in power. Since we have returned to the treasury benches we have embarked on a program to ensure that those people in our society who are disadvantaged will receive some support from this Government. That is a policy which I totally support. 
What has been done? The income test had not been changed since 1973; but, as a consequence of this Budget, the income that one can earn without it affecting one's pensioner health benefit card has been increased, for a single person, from $33 to $40 a week and, for married couples, from $57.50 to $68 a week. For those people who are looking for a cost, I point out that this will apply from I November and is estimated to cost a total of $13m in 1979-80 -that is the rest of this financial year- and $23m in a full year. That reflects the degree of concern which is manifested by many people in the Government coalition parties. 
From the first pension pay period in February 1980, people who served as members of the formally raised forces of Allied countries in any war or warlike operation in which Australia participated will be eligible for a service pension. This again has come from members of the Government parties. We have had numerous submissions from various people who supported the Allied troops during the Second World War and, indeed, in other areas of conflict. The Government, quite fairly and quite rightly, has given consideration to those people who have made such a contribution to the world situation, and now they will be assisted in the form of a service pension. The Government also has decided to reintroduce free medical and hospital treatment for all veterans who received tuberculosis pensions prior to 2 November 1978. Having regard to the representations which have been made to many people on this side of the House and taken forward to the Ministry, the genuineness with which they were brought forward has been accepted by the Ministry. 
There will also be increases in a range of benefits available to specially disadvantaged repatriation beneficiaries, including orphan's pensions, attendant's allowance, recreation transport allowance, gift car allowance and clothing allowance. Most importantly, the repatriation funeral benefit will be increased by $200- the maximum at the present time being $100-to $300 as from 1 November 1979. This program upon which this Government has embarked distributes fairly to the Australian people the revenue that the Government gains from many sources, including income tax, excise duties and a whole host of other taxes which are levied on the Australian people. This revenue is being put back into the community. It shows a genuine concern for people who are not as well off as some others are. At the same time, the people who are providing that significant degree of revenue will be paying a lower rate of tax. 
Another program upon which the Government will be embarking this year is the construction of homes and hospitals for aged persons. An amount of $62.5m has been allocated for this purpose, which is an increase of $9.8m over the allocation last year. A further $4m has been allocated for senior citizen centres. An amount of $69.2m has been allocated for assistance for preschool and child care projects in the States and the Northern Territory- a significant increase of $5.4m. There is an amount of $39.3m for handicapped persons facilities, with further approvals of up to $5m for funding in the 1 980-8 1 financial year. There are grants totalling $500,000 to community welfare agencies which are in need of support in providing emergency assistance to members of the community. In just those few areas we, as a Government, have demonstrated that we are concerned about people who are not as well off, or who are disadvantaged. At the same time we are distributing the moneys which we raise in revenue to ensure that the maximum amount of advantage is given to each dollar. 
Some people on the other side of the House do not believe that a very important sector of the Australian community, the defence forces of Australia, should be receiving any degree of assistance. If those members who are in the armed services what to know what sort of government we would have if the Labor Party ever got into power again, I suggest that they recall what sort of equipment they were dealing with in those horrific years from 1972 to 1975. As a member of the Government Members Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, I am delighted to be a supporter of a government which has increased expenditure in the defence area- which is a very important area- by $28 lm, bringing the total allocation of defence spending to $2,887m this financial year. In real terms, that is an increase of 2.6 per cent. 
While I am discussing this matter, as a person who is very keen on Australian manufacturing industry let me say that, whereas when we came into government in 1976 the shipbuilding industry of Australia was on the rocks of depression; I am pleased to welcome and acknowledge the announcement which was made by my colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  to the effect that we will be spending $70m on building a new vessel in Australian shipbuilding yards. If nothing else, that goes to prove what has happend in this country in the last 3Vi years. This Government has restored the competitiveness of Australian manufacturing industry which was not competitive under the previous Government. We now have a situation in which Australian shipbuilding yards can compete on the international scene without any subsidy from the Government, while paying extremely high rates of pay to their workers. Despite that, we can still compete with countries in our region which normally would be trying to attract that type of contract from us because of the cheaper rates of pay that they offer their employees. That is a very significant step in the right direction. I look forward to joining with other members of this side of the House in welcoming the decision of the Minister for Defence and the Cabinet to provide the front line fighter aircraft of which this country is in need at the present time. 
I go one step further and say that I am delighted to know that we have seen fit to assist the newer Australians who have come into this country. An amount of $ 15m is provided in the 1979-80 Budget for the continuing implementation of the Galbally recommendations on the provision of special services to migrants. As we have a large percentage of migrant people, this money has been spent correctly by social workers who have been appointed to bodies such as the Italian communities welfare committee. There are already significant changes and the communication which has been provided by this government assistance is most welcome in my area. I know that this has occurred throughout the migrant communities of Australia. An amount of $24. lm, which is an increase of $6.1m, has been allocated to the adult migrant and refugee education program. This again shows a genuine concern for those people who have decided to make this wonderful country their permanent home. I am delighted to be able to say that, for those people who have chosen to move here from the land of their birth with their families, we are providing the infrastructure and the help necessary to make their settling-in program easier. This is because of the degree of assistance, both real and in kind, that this Government, with its genuine concern, will be bringing forward. 
-There will be. One of my colleagues has just mentioned that we would like many more people. Provision is made in this Budget to increase the number of people migrating to this country. I refute the statement which is made by many people in the Opposition that migrants create unemployment. They do not. 
-They are totally anti-migrant and always have been. The only thing that the Labor Party successfully did when it was in office was to cut the number of people - 
Debate interrupted. 
When the debate on the Budget was adjourned on 30 August I was two minutes short of finishing my speech. Today I am delighted to announce a significant event which has transpired since then. 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House of the facts surrounding the black marlin fishing proposals? Has the Minister seen the numerous 
Press articles and other media stories appearing over the last few days, which make certain statements on the proposed problems if and when the agreement is signed? Will the Minister give the House all the information to allay the fears of many Queenslanders, and indeed many Australians, who are concerned for the future of this magnificent sporting fish? 
-Is the Minister for Industrial Relations aware of the 48-hour strike by workers in the Queensland power industry which severely disrupted power supplies in that State on Monday and Tuesday? Is he aware of the heartbreak and hardship suffered by many hundreds of thousands of Queenslanders which was caused by that dispute? Is he aware that there are possibilities of involving the Commonwealth Government in having one registration of trade unions? Can the Minister give the reasons for this dispute and what are the implications for Australia in the future? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. Statements were made in the Grievance Debate today by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in which he alleged that I had charged to my electorate office telephone three overseas cables. That I do not deny. These telegrams were sent in an endeavour to assist three development programs within Queensland. At no stage was it my intention that the cost of these overseas cables would be borne by the Australian taxpayer. I originated the overseas cables from my electorate office with the full expectation that in due course I would receive an appropriate debit advice from the Department of Administrative Services in Brisbane asking me to meet the costs of those cables. This would be consistent with the procedures authorised by paragraph 8-1 of the Remuneration Tribunal document which relates to the use of the telephone services in my private residences. To date I have not received such a debit advice. I can assure the House that on its receipt the charges will be paid by me. I admit to the House that I erred but it was unintentional. I erred by giving my office telephone number rather than my private number. 
