
 - Mr Speaker, I congratulate you on your re-election as  Speaker  to this, the Thirty-first Parliament. May I also congratulate you on your knighthood. You, sir, before several redistributions changed the electorates, represent many of the present constituents of Hotham. I know that they would want me to pass on congratulations and best wishes. I also congratulate the  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar). 
I come to this Parliament with pride and humility. It is a great honour to be chosen to represent the people of Hotham, and I thank everyone who helped me. My responsibility to the people of Hotham will not be forgotten as I play my part in our Government. I am prepared to work and I will work for them and for all Australians. I am here representing the people of Hotham- all the people of Hotham, not just the Liberal voters but also the Labor voters. I represent not just the big businesses of Hotham but also the small ones. I represent the sick, the professionals, the aged, the unskilled, the young, the housewives- all people. I represent not just the descendants of the migrants of Phillip's fleet and of the migrants to the gold rush, but all the migrants. I represent them as a resident with an office in the electorate, ever open to all. 
The last redistribution had a major effect on my electorate. It added over 30,000 voters from the Holt electorate. This perhaps makes it even more appropriate that there be a new member for Hotham. But I do not intend to talk about Hotham specifically. No doubt there was a description of Hotham in the maiden speech of the former member. No two electorates are physically alike, but like all other electorates the electorate of Hotham is made up of people; thus its needs are basically the same as the needs in other electorates. So, in looking after the needs of the people of Australia, we will be looking after the needs of the electorate of Hotham. 
The prime responsibility of every member of parliament is the good of this country and the management of Australia. We have to plan ahead like successful companies- not with the dogma of the five-year and ten-year plans of the socialist countries but with ideals which should be part of our very way of life. But a government can do only so much. The answers do not lie with legislation as much as they do with the individual citizen. We have to create the environment in which all people can live and work with the maximum individual freedom and human dignity. The representatives of the people- all of us here- were voted into this Parliament because it was felt that we had something to contribute in the management of Australia. There are a number of members such as the Ministers, the  Speaker,  the Whips, et cetera, who essentially have their jobs prescribed. This leaves a large number of men with much to offer. 
This country and the running of it can be compared with a large company, and no company would employ such talent and waste it. These talents must be gainfully employed, and I am sure they will be. The work of this Parliament must continue to be investigation and debate. It must continue to produce meaningful legislation and provide the leadership to inspire Australians to reach their potentials. This is not just the leadership of the Prime Minister and the Ministers but of all members of this Parliament, for without a doubt it is their presence, their word and their example which is the government to so many people. Nobody denies that there are men of talent on the Opposition benches and surely in debate they will bring up useful and worthwhile suggestions. The Government, in its wisdom, will no doubt evaluate these ideas in the spirit of providing the best for Australia. The Opposition members have their articles of faith in politics but they have to accept that we will pass legislation in line with our Liberal philosophies. However, in accepting the differences in philosophy they can still add to the debate and to the betterment of Australia. I am reminded of an occasion when I was in the United States of America in I960 listening with a small group of people to President Kennedy's inaugural speech. When it was finished one of them clapped. Another turned to him and said: 'I thought you were a Republican'. The reply was: 'That is my President of my country. He was voted there by the people of my country. I will back him and help him'. 
Many people throughout this country could do well to follow that example, remembering that we are all one country and we must stand behind the Government. While not singling out the unions, the power strike in Victoria's Latrobe Valley at the end of last year must be counted as a prime example of forgetting that we are all part of Australia and must work in the best interests of all Australians. 
People may ask how a new member can have the temerity to question some of the workings of Parliament. During the last election it became obvious that people had little time and not much respect for politicians or Parliament. To campaign under such conditions it was necessary to establish the reason behind this attitude, and it was not hard to find. Along with thousands of people, I have listended to parliamentary broadcasts and have read  Hansard.  They and I made judgments. Often those who stand apart can judge better. The main reason for the low opinion is the amount of time spent in personal point-scoring in Parliament. However, the public is quite indifferent to the week's tally of points scored, and wishes that debate and criticism were directed at policies and not at people. Basically, people judge their Parliament by the results and not by the words. They do not want their Government to intrude into their lives in such a fashion. 
The media have a lot to answer for with an electorate that is anti-parliament and antipolitician. The media report on the antics, the indiscretion and the unfortunate word to get the public attention, but all of these represent less than 5 per cent of the proceedings of Parliament and less than 1 per cent of the work of parliamentarians. Members of the Press do not write about the dedicated work of a good member. If more concentration were placed on the 95 per cent on which the media do not comment, certain honourable members might miss out on some free publicity and fewer papers might be sold, but this Parliament would once again have the respect of people. 
When earlier I talked about the needs of the people of Australia I was not confining myself to things such as social services and health. AU aspects of government have their effect on people- defence, taxation, the environment, foreign relations and public works, among others. On the occasion of the opening of the 
Thirty-first Parliament His Excellency the Governor-General spoke about our Government's tasks, its priorities and the measures proposed to realise these goals. Let us make no mistake: The overriding aim is a stable and prosperous economy. The prime task is to ensure that growth is continued and our nation developed. It is only by developing our resources- our resources include our primary products, our services and our manufactured goods- that we can provide more for the community and a higher standard of living for all Australians. We have to go forward. There is no point in bemoaning the past or glorying in it. We all have to strive together now to achieve our goals. 
One area of government has a great interest for me. It was the fourth item of government strategy in the previous Governor-General's Speech on 17 February 1976 and also the fourth of" this Government's priorities in the present Governor-General's Speech on 21 February this year, which read, respectively: 
Historic reforms will be made to reverse the concentration of power in the Federal Government and increase the autonomy and responsibilities of Local and State Governments. 
And: 
To revitalise our Federal system by co-operating with State and local governments and giving them a greater measure of financial responsibility. 
Federalism is not just a structural concept with a philosophical justification aimed at preventing a dangerous concentration of power in a few hands. Federalism is at the heart of the Government's ideals and is the complete opposite of the Labor socialist doctrine. Under Federalism individuals are free to participate fully in governments, and the forms of government are decentralised to State and local governments to permit the maximum response and involvement of people. Governments must be brought as close as possible to people. We must recognise and provide for the growing demands of individuals and community groups to be heard and to participate meaningfully in the democratic process. 
The Liberal federalism policy is lengthy and detailed, and the last Liberal Government went a long way towards implementing it. The benefits are starting to show, and nowhere more than in the local councils. Some Liberals may have certain reservations about this policy but I am sure it is because of their place of abode. I personally am seeing the best of it with a great State Government in Victoria and two good councils in Springvale and Moorabbin. I believe that the full implementation of a federalist policy will help to bring people together in the old sense of family and village. It will allow for a more sensitive application of funds for social welfare benefits and the more efficient use of our huge resource of dedicated volunteers in the charity field. 
I wish that the Governor-General had had more time to expand on the Government's intentions under this item but with such a high priority we can certainly expect action to further federalism. The Government has many difficult tasks ahead which will require the skills and energies of every honourable member. It will require men who can stand up and be counted, men who have the courage to make those unpopular decisions which will bring back stability and sanity to Australia. This is our country. It is a great country and it is worth fighting for, so let us all work together for a better country. 
-I direct to the Prime Minister a question on federalism. The increase in the allocation to local government from 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent of income tax has been well received. Can the Prime Minister inform the Parliament of the timing of these payments? 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen reports of Colorado's 'sunset' laws whereby all government agencies and authorities are automatically disbanded after a number of years? Can the Prime Minister tell the Parliament whether there are any plans for this Government to follow the example set by Colorado and other States in the United States of America as regards 'sunset' laws? 
The purpose of this group of Bills is to allow uranium mining to proceed. This development will take place in a controlled and responsible fashion, taking into account the environment and the Aboriginals. Let us be quite positive that we will be mining and selling uranium. This is the heart of the matter. The ministerial statement and the Bills make it obvious that we will be following the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Fox in his report on the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
There are two areas which  Mr Justice  Fox perhaps has not detailed sufficiently, although the points were made. Perhaps, because of the way in which such reports are written, there are areas on which he has not put enough emphasis. I refer, firstly, to the fact that this world has no alternative other than to mine uranium, if we are to maintain our standard of living and to increase that of underdeveloped countries. Secondly, I refer to the fact that the opposition to uranium is badly misinformed and is charged with emotion not facts. We have seen much of the facts in relation to fossil fuel and hydro resources. We know that there must be a change in our methods of power generation. We also know that uranium supplies have a finite though very long life and that Australia is well off because of its coal resources. 
Let me put to rest the opposition arguments for solar and wind power. These are supplementary only and could possibly reach 5 per cent of our total energy requirements. The fact is that on a perfectly clear day the sun's rays give 1,000 watts of energy on each square metre of surface which is at right angles to those rays. This is an absolute maximum. There is no way to increase it. This is the power used by just one radiator which is normally in use in the house. For one million people we would require about a 1,000- megawatt power station, and to supply that we would need 130 square kilometres of collectors. 
Thus Melbourne, which has a population of 2.5 million people, would lose all its western and northern suburbs and its few Labor members as the area was covered with collectors. This shows just one reason why solar power is limited. The protagonists of the slogan 'Solar not Nuclear' are dealing in fiction not facts. 
The next misconception put forward by the opponents of uranium is that we should use wind, water and tide. These concepts proved inadequate in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Whilst there have been immense strides in technology since that time, it is still a hopeless proposition. Let me give as an example the modern windmill with giant 100-foot sails in a 6-metre per second wind. That is no breeze. This could provide an annual output of 440,000- kilowatt hours per year. When it is realised that each person requires, for home and industry, an average of 150,000-kilowatt hours per year, one can see that a massive windmill would be required for three persons. It can be worked out that England would need 20 million giant windmills which would cover about one half of the total area of the country. The uranium knockers did not tell honourable members that, did they? What about the incredible noise, the incredible accidents, the sight pollution, and the very real doubt about whether there would be enough copper in the world to provide the motors and the conductors. Do not get me wrong; we should develop these means of power generation, but we must keep in mind their limitations in the total energy situation. 
So what of the future? We will run out of oil and gas in the very near future and coal and uranium in a slightly longer time. There is now every reason to believe that we can produce power from the fast breeder reactors, but the production of that power increases the use of uranium by thirty to fifty times. So we still have only a finite limit of resources. There is, however, another source which hitherto was regarded as not a practical solution, but it has the promise of unlimited resources. I refer to fusion. I explain by saying that when the heavy elements break down in fission they give out energy, as in a nuclear power station. When light elementary nucleii, such as in hydrogen which is available from water, can be made to combine in fusion, again energy is released. This is what happens in a hydrogen bomb. To do this at the moment essentially requires an atomic bomb explosion in order to produce enough temperature and pressure. It is, however, the energy source of the future. In the meantime there is no alternative- I repeat, absolutely no alternative- to using uranium for power generation. 
Let me take up the points that are used against uranium. Let me do the opposition's job for a moment, then perhaps we will get facts and not fiction. The several areas that the Opposition is concerned with are environment, Aboriginal land rights, radiation hazards, nuclear explosions, terrorist activity and waste disposal. Unfortunately, I do not have enough time to cover the matters of the environment and Aboriginal land rights, but I will deal with some of the other matters. Let us look at radiation hazards, again in terms of fact and not fiction. The opposition to uranium did not tell us that coal-fired power stations give off radioactivity which has a longer life than the emission from nuclear power stations. Nor did they tell us that there is more radioactivity in whisky, milk, salad oil and tap water than there is from nuclear power stations. 
Let us put the matter of radiation into perspective. We use a unit called the millirad in relation to radiation. A medical X-ray produces 500 millirads. Cancer treatment provides, say, 4,000 millirads, and people recover. Compare this with sitting alongside a nuclear reactor for 10 years. A person would be exposed to up to 2 millirads. Radiation in the air is 5 millirads; from rocks and soil we get another 50 millirads; from cosmic rays, 30 millirads; and from body salts, 17 millirads or so. Just by living 150 feet above sea level gives one another two millirads, and flying at 35,000 feet from here to Perth and back gives one another two or three millirads. The annual natural radiation on a person in Australia is 100 millirads. People in parts of Brazil are exposed to 13,000 millirads, and they do not die any sooner than other people. 
Compare this situation to 10 years with a reactor where radio activity is between one and two millirads. The Opposition did not tell us about this. Let us look at the toxicity of plutonium. There has been no recorded case of cancer attributable to plutonium in 17,000 workers over a period of 30 years. Further, to refute the terrible campaign which has shown up in booklets given to primary school students, I invite the attention of honourable members to the fact that there has been no increase in mutations, deformities or genetic effects in the 71,000 offspring born during two generations of the highly radiated people of Nagasaki and Hiroshima. This subject of radiation goes under the names of pollution and danger by radiation. Let us compare it to the dangers of pollution by present day power generation systems. Hydro power requires dams. Dams have broken with huge loss of life. Oil transportation has caused massive pollution of the seas. Mining of coal in the United States of America since 1907 has cost 88,000 lives underground. The pollution of the skies from the burning of coal and oil is cause for some concern. So we see that the dangers and pollution of uranium for power generation are minute in comparison to present systems. 
The Opposition has endeavoured to make the word nuclear synonymous with bomb. Forget the cartoon posters of a shattered power station; they have no factual validity. A nuclear explosion in a nuclear power station is absolutely impossible- I repeat, absolutely impossible. I shall explain why. The substance U238 is mined. It is not fissionable though it does contain 0.7 per cent of U235, a substance that is fissionable. For a bomb or nuclear explosion one needs U235 enrichment to 90 per cent. In a power station U235 enrichment is to only 3.5 per cent. Therefore the big bang is impossible. The same reasoning shows it is also impossible to have an explosion with plutonium oxide pellets which will be used in plants of the future. It is horror fiction only. The Opposition argument goes this way: Reactors give plutonium which makes bombs and therefore there should be no reactors. Let us look at that argument. The original bombs were of fissionable U235 material only. This was made from enrichment by a tedious diffusion plant covering hundreds of acres. Now it can be produced cheaply by small centrifuges. No one would worry about separating U235 from the rods of a nuclear power plant and concentrating them. It is much cheaper and easier to centrifuge uranium ore. 
India made a nuclear device but not from material obtained from its power station. Let us remember also that it took 20 years of concentrated work from the time the decision was made to produce a bomb as soon as possible. The Swedish defence department estimates that it takes between 30 and 40 high calibre experts many years and an expenditure of millions of dollars to produce a nuclear bomb. Forget the Australian Broadcasting Commission which displayed an expert who was prepared to produce a bomb in the kitchen. Let us have facts. Now let us get to the facts on waste disposal, which we heard about from the previous speaker. No one need worry about radiation for 100,000 or even a million years, and no new technology is required. It is being done now. 
-In France. Simply, there is some time available at the reactor site for partial decay of radioactivity. Then the material is chemically separated so that many products may be re-used. It ends up in a sandy mass which is held for another 10 years to allow further decay. This is necessary also to reduce its heat for the next operation which is vitrification. The radioactive sand is solidified in twice its volume of insoluble glass and is finally encased in a thick steel cylinder. This operation was not carried out until recently as there was not enough radioactive waste to make it worthwhile. Further I remind honourable members of the 10 years delay that is required to reduce the heat. There is now radioactive material storage in the United States of America in disused salt mines, more than 2,000 feet down. Salt mines are used for good reason. They give an indication that no water is present, otherwise the salt would dissolve and wash away. The storage is also located in a non-earthquake area. It is safe. It would take a meteorite measuring a mile in diameter and scoring a direct hit to disturb this storage. Let us look now at the radioactivity involved at each of the stages. There is 85 per cent decay before the waste leaves the reactor site. Within 10 years and before vitrification 99 per cent of radioactivity has disappeared. Of the one per cent remaining, 99.9 per cent decays within 300 years. In fact, a person could eat a quarter pound of the material without harm, though it might require a bit of mustard. 
I now pass from the details and get to the sources of opposition to uranium. For some years there have been isolated calls for the elimination of nuclear power stations, just as there is still the odd call to replace motor cars with rickshaws or horse-drawn vehicles. But a few years ago there was a rather more united opposition in the United States of America and its base seems to have been the Friends Of The Earth. No one complains about opposition to technical subjects as long as that opposition is based on facts and argued on facts. But when conceited opposition is based only on misleading information such as we heard today, and designed to appeal to sentiments and emotions, one is forced to look a little further for the real reason behind the opposition. The first approach is to find the source of the financial backing. 
It has been established that sources in Sweden are the immediate backing for that American group, and it is laundered money from Finland. It does not take much brainpower to work out where the real opposition to uranium power stations comes from. It is a political doctrine which has as its main theme the destruction of the Western World's democratic systems and the subsequent implementation of its own doctrinaire systems. I do not say that everyone who is opposed to uranium has these motives. Some few of them have some objections based purely on worthwhile emotions. I hope that those people will look at the facts and accept that decisions on this highly scientific and engineering subject must be made on consideration of arguments based on facts. However, a large number of objectors, such as those who obtain stickers from the Australian Labor Party which state 'Solar not uranium', 'Leave uranium in the ground' and Don't mine uranium', are to be found in university car lots and at other places of learning. This gives cause for concern. One expects people who frequent places of learning to look at facts. Such stickers are proof that that attitude has not been adopted. I sum up with a conclusion based upon the facts. We will need uranium for power generation in the very near future. There is no alternative. It is safer and less polluting in all respects than all other known form of mainline power generation. Uranium must and will be mined. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In considering the need for interpreters and translators to be provided to ethnic groups has the Government given any thought to the extension of such a service to Aboriginals? 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the crisis in the southern and western coalfields of New South Wales? Does he realise that exports of coal, especially to Japan, are jeopardised and that unemployment will be increased by the refusal of the Premier of New South Wales to make decisions? Can the Minister tell the House what the Government can do to help overcome Premier Wran's refusal to look after the interests of the men down the mines and the interests of New South Wales and Australia? 
I bring to the attention of the House the difficulties the coal industry is experiencing and about to experience in New South Wales. I will show how the Labor Government there does not appreciate the situation, is not prepared to make a decision and is acting in a manner contrary to the good of New South Wales and Australia. Let me start with mining under the reservoirs in the southern and western coalfields. An expert study costing $3m has been completed by  Mr Justice  Reynolds. It listened to experts, from all over the world, who have mined under water.  Mr Justice  Reynolds concluded that there was no reason mining should not take place and he laid down very strict guidelines on the methods to be used. This report is now being used around the world as the complete reference for mining underwater. 
It seems, however, that the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Draining Board and the New South Wales Minister for Public Works, although jointly commissioning this judicial inquiry, are not prepared to accept its findings. They say that there is a miniscule chance of a collapse causing leakage. The findings stated was that there was little chance of this happening, that if the laid down procedures were used they would effectively negate what little chance there was of this happening. In fact, it would take an atomic explosion or a major earthquake to cause leakage and both of these would break the dam wall itself thus releasing all the water anyway. Taking the worst possible case- a catastrophic situation- if there was a collapse or a crack, water flow would soon stop as rubble and silt washed into the opening. It takes large concretelined passageways to maintain fast flows through rock. It should be borne in mind that the impounded waters have been partly undermined already with pillar sizes less than those proposed and without any problem. 
What is the situation if these areas cannot be mined? The first result will be that some mines will run out of coal and have to lay off men. I cite as an example the Wongawilli mine at which 350 men may have to be laid off next month. The next result- this affects the mines, New South Wales and Australia- is that one-quarter of the coal reserves of the southern and western coal fields will be lost, essentially for all time. The South Coast coal resources are the State's only source of hard coking coal which is essential to the furnace designs at Port Kembla and to the export market of quality coking coal. Now I come to deal with the loading of coal. There is a constant waiting line of ships waiting to load at Port Kembla. This is causing major problems with our overseas customers. The situation has been known for some years and it awaits a definite decision from the New South Wales Government. It is tied in with the location of a new loader at White Bay, Botany Bay or Port Kembla and with a mode of transport- rail or road. It is also tied in with who will pay for what. Until the New South Wales Government makes a decision, contracts will be in jeopardy, sales cannot increase and unemployment will increase. 
Let me make it clear that the matter is not a case of New South Wales versus Queensland. It is a political decision which Premier Wran finds hard to make because he made deals with the left wing and in case the decision he makes upsets his chances even more. It is a straight out matter for the New South Wales Government to make a decision for the good of New South Wales and Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Australian Science and Technology Council Bill 1978 that we are now debating is the result of six years progression in the field of committees and advisory bodies on science and technology. The first Australian Government commitment to the advisory body on science and technology was in April 1972 when the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  now the Right Honourable  Sir William  McMahon, announced the formation of the Advisory Committee on Science and Technology. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was the responsible Minister at that time. The Committee had only a brief existence, meeting for the first time in October 1972 and being disbanded by the Labor Government in February 1973. In 1974 the Labor Government invited three overseas examiners of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to come to Australia. This resulted in a White Paper entitled: 'Science and Technology in the Service of Society- the Framework for Australian Government Planning'. Here it seems that both the Government and the Opposition agree. 
In January 1975, by Cabinet decision, an interim Australian Science and Technology Council was established. Things got under way again in February 1976 when the Prime Minister announced that he had asked an advisory group to advise him on the role of and the terms of reference for a science and technology advisory council. 
The group presented its report in March 1976. The interim Australian Science and Technology Council was continued, with some change of membership and functions. Its principal charter was to report to the Prime Minister on the longterm arrangements for a permanent council. After wide consultation the interim council reported in November 1976 and recommended the creation of a permanent and independent advisory body on science and technology and that this permanent ASTEC become a statutory body. The permanent council was established by Executive action in April 1977, and now the House has before it the Bill to establish it as a statutory body. All through the history of this body there has been the intent to provide independence for the council and to obtain overview reports. This, therefore, is the reason why it is not just an offshoot, under the Minister for Science, or part of the Prime Minister's Department or other departments. The Government's determination to provide this independence is shown in many clauses of the Bill but principally in clauses 8, 19,20 and 25. 
Sub-clause 2 of clause 8 specifically says that the Minister is not empowered 'to give directions to the Council with respect to the content of any information or advice to be furnished'. This negates the possibility of politics entering the advice rendered, and ensures that such advice is founded on scientific facts. Clause 19, in subclause 1, states:   . . the staff required to assist the Council in the performance of its functions shall be persons appointed or employed under the  Public Service Act  1 922. 
Further, sub-clause 4 states that the staff shall perform their functions and duties in accordance with the directions of the Council. Again, subclause 2 of clause 20 states: 
While an officer or employee of an authority is performing services for the Council in pursuance of an arrangement under sub-section ( 1 ), that officer or employee is not to be subject to direction by that authority. 
In further pursuit of full independence for the Council there is clause 25. This clause forbids any legal action against the Council, its staff, or those working for it or giving information to it while they are acting in good faith for the Council. So, we see that much of the Bill is related to the independence of the Council. 
The other important aspect which shows in the Bill and in all the other statements and reports on the Council, is the wide range of subjects covered. It is not, as the honourable member for Prospect said, narrow. This was brought about by the need for an overview on the whole situation. Some idea of the range of subjects covered is found in clause 5, the reference clause, and it is important enough to repeat it. It states: 
The functions of the Council are to investigate, and to furnish information and advice to the Commonwealth Government in respect of, matters relating to science and technology, including the following matters: 
the advancement of scientific knowledge; 
the development and application of science and technology in relation to the furtherance of the national well-being; 
the adequacy, effectiveness and overall balance of scientific and technological activities in Australia; 
the identification and support of new ideas in science and technology likely to be of national importance; 
the practical development and application of scientific discoveries; 
the fostering of scientific and technological innovation in industry; and 
the means of improving efficiency in the use of resources by the application of science and technology. 
A further idea of the range can be gained from the variety of departments and agencies with substantial interests in science and technology that will be called upon for help. The following departments are represented at the monthly meetings of the council: Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Department of Defence, Department of Health, Department of National Development, Department of Primary Industry, Department of Science, Postal and Telecommunications Department and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Also, minutes and agenda papers, and an invitation to be represented at council meetings when items of interest are on the agenda, are sent to the following group of departments and agencies: Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, Department of Finance, Department of Productivity, Department of Transport, Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Telecommunications Commission, and the Tertiary Education Commission. 
The first necessity for ASTEC was to determine a classification system within which all fields of science and technology could be reviewed. The following list of classifications gives a further indication of the range covered: Aeronautics and aerospace, agriculture, atmosphere, coastal and ocean engineering, communications, construction, earth, electronics, energy, environment, marine sciences, food, forestry, fundamental research, health, industrial chemicals, international relations liason and aid, metal products and machinery, mineral processing, mining, organisation of research and development, scientific and technical computing, textiles, transport, urban and regional planning, water resources and wood products. 
At this stage it is worthwhile giving an idea of the make-up of the Council itself. At present there are seven professors, each covering a different area, four managing directors or general managers of large public companies, the  chairman  of a primary producers organisation, a political scientist, a union leader and a scientist. That indicates that the previous  speaker  did not understand the position when he said that he wanted scientists involved. Again honourable members see how, with the wide experience of the councillors, the range involved in ASTEC is extremely large. Let me remind honourable members that the Council is an advisory group and has no executive role. Its advice will be used in many ways, especially in the allocation of resources and long-term planning. To give some idea- only a small idea- of the work that has already been completed, I mention the report of 1977 with advice on biological surveys in Australia, the drifting buoys program- a worldwide effort in which Australia is now involved, Landsat receiving in Australia, and, last month, the Prime Minister tabled the ASTEC report on energy research and development in Australia. I have given the history leading to the present ASTEC I have shown how the Government has provided independence for ASTEC. I have shown the wide range covered by ASTEC and, finally, I have given some examples of the advice it gives. I seek the support of all honourable members for this grand idea which has now come to fruition. I seek support for the Bill, which makes ASTEC a permanent statutory body. 
Perhaps I can answer the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  very quickly on two points. He mentioned the functions of the Australian Science and Technology Council. I think that if he reads clause 5 carefully he will find that there are no inhibitions in the functions. The proposed new clause 5 represents just a rewording of the functions laid out in the Bill. He also mentioned that transport and communications, by way of examples, were not part of the overall investigation by ASTEC. If he had listened to my speech he would have heard me say that there would be a system whereby all the fields of science and technology could be reviewed. I listed some 26 or 27 items and communications and transport were included. I believe that the amendment is of no importance whatsoever. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
I wish to add several points to the debate. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  referred to the fourth paragraph of the Opposition's amendment, which relates to the appointment of parliamentarians to the Council. In my speech I made it very clear that one of the efforts behind the wording of this Bill was to have independence, which we tried to achieve through a number of the clauses. I think that in doing it this way we have achieved this end, but to include parliamentarians on the Council is getting away from the whole point of it. 
The other point made by the honourable member concerned deletions from reports of the Council to the Parliament and the fact that notice should be given of the reports that have been received and of the grounds for any deletions. That is ridiculous when one looks at it from the point of view of prejudicing security. How can one possibly disclose a report and then say that certain parts of it have been deleted? That gets away from the whole point of clause 6 which deals with the possibility of not reporting under certain circumstances which would prejudice the security, defence, international relations or relations between the Commonwealth and any State. So I think the honourable member for Wills has missed the boat on that point. 
I think one other point needs to be mentioned, and that is the membership of the Council. Perhaps large councils can get things done but I think the number that has been selected for this Council makes for a workable council. If a larger number of members were appointed- the honourable member suggested that members from all walks of life should be appointed- the Council would become unwieldy. The honourable member also mentioned that a wider range of people should be appointed to the Council. In my speech in the second reading debate I mentioned that representatives of many departments are invited to attend every meeting, and the minutes and agenda papers are sent to other departments if the items are of interest to them. I think that covers a wide variety of interests, and there is no need to extend the membership of the Council. 
-My question which is directed to the Minister for Health concerns the Minister's recent announcement on health insurance arrangements and the Press coverage of it. Is it a fact that when bulk billing is abolished for all but pensioners with pensioner health benefit cards and their dependants, other people will have to pay their doctor in cash at the time of treatment and meet the full cost of medical benefits? Further, when will the Government negotiate with the States on hospital bed charges? 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Has he seen suggestions that the 12 te per cent additional customs duty on import quotas is being regarded as increased protection and is in conflict with his position taken at the Multilateral Trade Negotiations and representations to the European Economic Community? 
We have a crisis, an energy crisis. The crisis is with us now. It may not be obvious because we do not have at this moment blackouts and petrol rationing, but the crisis is very real. We- that includes the whole world- cannot continue to use our present energy resources as we are now. This Government, in its Budget, has taken this energy crisis into consideration. Coal supplies 41 per cent of Australia's energy needs yet it makes up 95 per cent of our reserves, excluding uranium. Natural gas consumption, at 9 per cent, is more in Une with its share of reserves at 4 per cent. Fifty per cent, a half of our energy, is derived from coal while oil reserves represent only one per cent of our total fossil fuels. Again I exclude uranium from these calculations. Of this 50 per cent of energy derived from coal, 53 per cent or a quarter of the whole goes into transportation. 
Australia ranks highly in terms of potential energy sources with higher reserves of coal and uranium per head of population than any other country. Our gas reserves per head, are second only to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Middle East. Our oil is scarce and we are almost as badly off as the United States of America. Again I say we cannot just look at Australia. We live in this total world. This Government has moved with its Budget in line with its energy policy. Let us briefly look at our energy policy and at the future of energy, starting with the long term situation. The power, the energy, of the future will come from sea water. Very recent experiments in the United States of America have verified that the power of the hydrogen bomb can be harnassed in controlled fusion. This process still requires an immense amount of experimental work and years of development. Our Government, through the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, will be keeping an eye on progress in this field. For this purpose the Commission continues to be funded. 
In the medium time scale we will be using the nuclear power of uranium and thorium and 
Australia will probably, and unfortunately, be using its coal. I hope that there will be more appreciation that burning coal for power, or even converting it to oil, is removing forever the most valuable source of hydrocarbons, a source that is necessary for so many vital aspects of everyday living. This Government appreciates that nuclear power is a necessity, especially for energy poor countries. This is why we are exporting uranium; this is why we have our uranium export policy and have signed sales agreements; and this is why we should be looking very seriously at uranium enrichment. 
We also should have nuclear power stations covering all future increases in mainline power and replacing oil, gas and coal burning stations as soon as possible. Newport power station in Melbourne should be a clean, non-polluting nuclear station. Then we would not have those arguments about smog which costs Victorians a fortune. I hope that this Government will encourage both private enterprise and the instrumentalities to look to having all future power stations nuclear. Also in the medium term we will use solar power. Again let me remind honourable members that solar energy in all its forms- tide, biomass, wind, et cetera- is strictly limited. Even the wildest estimates allow that solar energy can supply only 5 per cent to 7 per cent of the world's needs. Of course this is important and this Government has continued to fund research in this field. 
In the short term of energy requirements- here we are talking of the next 12 years or so to 1990- we have our crisis. This Government is moving in appreciation of this crisis which shows up in Australia as a liquid fuel crisis. Four positive approaches have been taken by this Government. Firstly, we have oil pricing. As we heard in the Budget Speech, we are moving to world parity. This will hopefully conserve oil and make Australians aware that the era of cheap fuel is over. We will be looking at conservation. The Budget allows $50,000 for this program through which we hope to reduce oil consumption by 15 per cent to 20 per cent in five years. This might sound optimistic but there are examples where it has been done. The next approach is to look at alternatives and this requires money for research and development. This Government has allowed $ 15m in 1978-79 for a major expansion of energy research and development- a significant increase. We must also remember that another $ 15m or so will be spent by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and other Commonwealth authorities on energy research and development. The areas where most of this money will be spent are liquefied petroleum gas, ethane and methane and electric cars. 
The further approach to alleviate the liquid fuel crisis is of course exploration. Here the Government's previous incentives in pricing and taxation have been large and the oil exploration companies have responded, as shown by the big increase in wells being drilled. So far in 1978 there are 27 exploration wells, which is more than in either 1976 or 1977, and of course is far above the almost zero activity of the years 1973, 1974 and 1975. There are also 60 off-shore and 70 on-shore exploration permits, due to this Government's appreciation of our crisis. This will result in at least $500m being spent. 
Let us look in a little more detail at the first approach; that is, oil pricing. Australians were paying less than half the world price for our own crude oil. In this financial year, with 70 per cent of our crude coming from Australian wells, we would be subsidising the users by $800m. The new policy, as outlined in the Budget Speech, announced that all Australian produced crude oil would cost refiners the import price, the world price. However the Australian driver, whether he pays 20c or 25c a litre, will still be far better off than most drivers in the world. For example, Italians pay 49c a litre and Frenchmen and Japanese pay 44c a litre. In the United States of America  President  Carter has seen the problem of his country's price of about 18c or 20c a hire, but cannot seem to be able to do anything about it. This move to world parity will be achieved by an increase to the production levy which, in the case of Bass Strait non-parity oil, will amount to an increase of $45.63 a kilolitre or  2Vi  times the existing levy. 
However the policy for producers as compared to refiners remains the same as last year. That is, old oil or oil produced from fields discovered before 14 September 1975 will be sold at import parity less the levy of $18.90 a kilolitre for an increasing proportion of production until 1981, and soon after that this proportion becomes 100 per cent. The levy on import parity oil remains the same, as does the six million barrels a day size of field attracting full world price. As I mentioned earlier, one of the main reasons for this new pricing of crude oil was to discourage the wasteful use of the vital hydrocarbons and to encourage more energy efficient processes and technologies. In terms of efficiency of energy use, Australia ranks slightly higher than the world average and is far better than the United States, though that is hardly high praise. However Japan and Western Europe lead the field and Australia has a long way to bridge the gap. Again we must remember that we are part of this world and not an island unto ourselves. 
While the crude oil price is a starting point of energy conservation, it is not enough by itself. So the Government, with the States, has agreed to a co-ordinated national energy conservation program. For its part the Federal Government has allowed in its Budget $50,000 for preliminary planning for a publicity campaign, the first stage of the national program. Other people have seen the need for energy conservation. Yesterday I opened a special energy conservation program at Melbourne University where a killer,  Mr Killerwatt,  is roaming the campus. The initial objective is to save on the huge power bill, but it is also wonderful to see this great university as a community leader in what is a national campaign. Companies and other groups could well follow its example. 
The pattern of industrial usage, resulting from the artificially low crude oil price, caused some large fuel users to change from furnace oil to industrial diesel oil. This is an abuse of high grade, costly diesel oil and cannot be tolerated. Also we have seen less use of natural gas than should be expected as we have burnt off our valuable crude oil. Let me just quickly run through some of the other aspects of the energy crisis, areas which will require government initiatives and action. Australia has LPG in quantities far exceeding current or reasonable projections for future local demands. How do we dispose of this in the best interests of the nation as a whole? Pricing, as with crude oil, will be important. Replacing crude oil based products is a necessity, perhaps requiring a whole new distribution system and a redesign of automobiles and/or trucks. While on the subject of transport, we will need further initiatives. Some areas being investigated are reducing speed limits; removing some traffic lights because stopping and starting of course doubles fuel consumption, or at least co-ordinating these lights; doing away with emission controls except perhaps in the centres of Melbourne and Sydney; increasing octane ratings of petrol, especially with higher lead levels and removing the lead if necessary from the exhaust; smaller cars and more streamlining; more diesel cars and a whole host of other possibilities. 
At this stage we should pay tribute to the Victorian Government and the Premier,  Mr Hamer,  who, in appreciation of the energy crisis, has personally arranged vast experimental work in conjunction with overseas experts to convert Victoria's huge brown coal reserves to liquid fuels in order to tide us over this crisis. On the other hand, Premier Wran of New South Wales has no appreciation of the crisis. He has refused to allow coalmining under water though this is being done all around the world. Also, by his refusal to install a coal loader at Botany Bay he is incurring great waste by transporting coals to Newcastle. Such policies will lead to blackouts and petrol rationing. 
In conclusion I remind honourable members that we have an energy crisis now. This Government has appreciated the crisis and in the Budget has moved to overcome it. This will become more obvious to the people of Australia, as the program to conserve energy is developed and each and every Australian plays his part to ensure a better Australia for all Australians. 
This amending Bill is historic because it is the first Bill to proceed through this House under the new arrangements. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has told honourable members, certain Bills will go through an extra step, that is, through a legislation committee. This Bill is the first and it will be interesting to see what advantages there are. 
The Commonwealth Government's Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act became law on 20 June 1975. The Act was designed to ensure the control, care and development of the Great Barrier Reef as a resource to be enjoyed and utilised by this generation and maintained, with a minimum of disturbance to its natural state, for the enjoyment and utilisation of future generations. The Great Barrier Reef region is a vast collection of islands and coral reefs extending along the Queensland coast for about 1,900 kilometres, from the tip of Cape York Peninsula to just north of Bundaberg and Fraser Island. Its size approximates the size of Victoria. It is internationally recognised as the largest and most complex expanse of living corals and associated organisms in the world. The marine ecosystem is complex and diverse and includes many unique forms of sea life. It is an area of irreplaceable beauty and significant scientific value and attracts numerous tourists, scientists and fishermen from the world over. There has been an increasing public awareness of the fragility of the marine environment generally and of the Reef in particular and an awareness of its vulnerability to further intensification of human activities. 
As an indication of the importance this Government places on the Reef, expenditure in this Budget has doubled to $740,000. The Budget also contains a new item- marine quality assessment activities, $ 100,000. A statutory authority, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, has been set up to establish and manage the marine park, working in co-operation with the Queensland Government and the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. One of the reasons why these amendments have come forward is that in the near future, and as soon as possible, the first part of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park will be declared. I hope that that answers one question raised by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park includes the Capricorn and Bunker groups of reefs and Lady Elliott Island, the southern area of the declared region. The actual proclamation is subject to some legal investigation now because the ownership of Lady Elliott Island is being questioned. The original Act of 1975 set out the boundaries of the region. It commences at the point on the coastline of Queensland at mean low water that is intersected by the parallel of latitude 10 degrees 41 minutes south and then runs east along that parallel and south along the coastline at mean low water. Unfortunately, this is not a good description of what was meant and, in fact, those lines do not meet. This leaves a gap in the boundaries of the region and this amendment to the Act closes the gap and puts aside any legal doubt about whether a region was declared for the purposes of the Act. The region now commences at the point of low water- not mean low water- being the northernmost extremity of Cape York Peninsula, runs thence easterly along the geodesic to a defined point and runs southerly along that coastline at low water. Modern navigation tends to use geodesies, which are the shortest lines lying on a given surface and connecting two given points. 
The amendments exclude all the Saumarez Reef from the region. This reef in fact is a part of the Coral Sea Islands territory. It will be of interest to honourable members to note that the region did not include the reefs north of Cape York because of the continuing discussion over the international border between Papua New Guinea and Australia. However, that region can be extended further north in the future if this seems desirable. Now that the border issue is about to be resolved, I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  to investigate this area and see whether the region should be extended so that all the Reef can be protected. 
The debate on the Bill in June 1975 was extensive. A good part of it was on the appointment of members to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and of the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. The Whitiam Government accepted the representations of the then Opposition to change certain matters relating to such appointments. This amending Bill widens the range and allows flexibility in respect of possible appointees and representatives. The amending Bill also makes minor drafting changes such as omitting the words 'Australian Government' and substituting the words 'Commonwealth Government'. Let me tell honourable members of some of the on-going work that has been carried out. A two-day workshop of scientists and experts, departmental officers, Aboriginals and Torres Strait pilots was held in April 1978 to discuss the protection of the unique qualities of the northern section of the Reef. Other workshops are planned in the future. The Authority will be playing a major role in the overseeing and the managing of oil spill research, which I hope will satisfy the honourable member for Robertson. It will be making a submission on the future management of Green Island and its reefs. A second section of the maritime park and the reefs between Cairns and Innisfail is being proposed for declaration. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given a commitment to try to have the Great Barrier Reef listed as part of the world heritage list and the Authority is doing the necessary work to see that this is carried out. It will also be involved in the Iwasaki development and the impact that it will have on the Reef. In all, the Authority is fully and completely involved with the Great Barrier Reef. I am pleased to enter this debate as one of the many Australians who have enjoyed some of this remarkable and wonderful area and as one who wants it to continue to provide some pleasure to future generations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-Has the Prime Minister received an invitation from Premier Hamer to attend a conference on the problems of unemployment? Will the Federal Government take part? 
In entering the debate on the estimates of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, I first express surprise and disappointment at the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who opened the debate for the Opposition. He said that it is time this Government and, in particular, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, recognised the importance of ownership of land for the Aboriginal people and did something positive about promoting Aboriginal acquisition of that land.  (Quorum formed).  It is only a few weeks ago that in a well publicised trip the Minister toured the Northern Territory and gave the actual titles of thousands of square kilometres of land to the tribal Aborigines who had successfully claimed that it had been their traditional tribal land. Having travelled with the honourable member to many Aboriginal communities in Western Australia, Northern Territory and Queensland, I find it hard to understand that he had no better knowledge and appreciation of the situation. This is especially true when he talks of paying unemployment benefits to Aborigines, or 'sit down money ' as they call it. If there were ever a more terrible legacy of the Whitlam Government I do not know of it. We can and will overcome the economic chaos into which that Government pulled us, but the legacy of the policy of 'something for nothing and of letting the Government look after us instead of helping ourselves', is the most terrifying result of all of its tragic period in office. Unfortunately, while the Labor Party was in power it fostered this feeling among Aborigines and we can see its terrible effects, if only in the alcohol problem and in their health. The present Government's programs are designed to encourage work rather than the receiving of social service payments. 
Another subject brought out by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  was housing and architects. Having travelled through many Aboriginal communities, he must surely realise that we cannot put tribal Aborigines straight into white man's houses. We went together to the Wiluna settlement where the Aboriginals just want more tents. At another centre they are building one-roomed houses, as they want them. Then we went on to Cundeelee where they do not want to move out of their leantos. We saw the outstations at Yirrkala which they recently built themselves, after moving from white man's houses. Then at Brewarrina we saw the $45,000 houses, of 8 squares, which had been architect-designed, I was disappointed at the emphasis the honourable member placed on the use of architects in this context, as against getting on with the job and having the people help themselves as much as possible. 
Later the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  entered the debate. Again, one must be disappointed to find the Opposition using the Aborigines as pawns in its misguided and unsuccessful anti-uranium campaign. The speech of the honourable member consisted mainly of quotations from  Mr Zorn,  who had advanced nothing new- nothing which any ordinary, well-paid Australian lawyer could not have brought forward. However, I was glad to hear the honourable member admit that it was the Labor Party that was involved in bringing pressures to bear on the Northern Land Council. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)That  is not a point of order. 
-He admitted that the Labor Government was involved in bringing pressure on the Northern Land Council, in its Ranger negotiations, after agreement had been finalised. More shame on them! Then we heard from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  whose tirade warrants no comment. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I know of no such Standing Order.  (Quorum formed). 
-Here we have in the Budget $ 17.49m for Department of Aboriginal Affairs programs, which includes $lm for alcohol rehabilitation programs. 
Consideration interrupted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-Did the Minister for Post and Telecommunications hear the radio program  AM  on 10 October in which it was reported that Peter McLullan, President of the Young Lawyers Association of Victoria, and Neil McLean, former national leader of the Australian student movement, broadcast from China to Thailand calling for continued communist revolution in Thailand? Is it true that these persons are commentators on radio station 3CR? Will the Minister take action against 3CR before we have protests on a government to government basis? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister answered a question yesterday indicating that a meeting was to take place at Oenpelli. Has he yet heard reports of the result of that meeting? Can he inform the House as to the present position relating to the proposed Ranger agreement with the Northern Land Council? 
Ten minutes is not enough time in which to speak on such an important subject and the remainder of my time has been reduced to a few brief moments because of the disruptions caused the other day by Labor obstructionists, and in particular the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He was heard in relative silence in spite of his refusal to talk on the subject under debate. We on this side of the House understand his frustration and accept, however reluctantly, his stand. It must be very hard for the honourable member for Reid to give up his seat for  Mr Wran  and to realise that his hard Left socialist tirades will not be heard in the future in this Parliament. The honourable member for Reid has been a hard slogger for the socialist Labor Party and having to step aside for another aspiring leader must hurt deeply. This Parliament will not be left without a fight for we will see the blood start flowing again in the Labor leadership battles.  Mr Wran, Mr Hawke  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  will be clawing their ways over the bodies of members of their front bench in their selfish fight to replace their present ineffectual leader. 
I wish to take up a number of items of the Budget under the appropriations for the Department of National Development and the Department of Trade and Resources and to allude to several items under the appropriations for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development because they are relevant to the first items. In the earlier debate on the Budget I talked about the energy crisis we have now. It is a world crisis. I mentioned our resources and the uneven way in which we are using them. Then came aspects of our energy policy and the future of energy. We looked at the long term, when the power of the hydrogen bomb will be harnessed in controlled fusion. In the medium time scale we will use the nuclear power of uranium and thorium and solar power, though it is limted in the overall situation. In the short term we in Australia will have a liquid fuel crisis. This Government has made four positive approaches: Moving oil prices to world parity price; conservation; looking for alternatives; and increased oil exploration. 
I now draw attention to the items in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 which show that this Government has appreciated the energy crisis and is doing something about it. Under the division for the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, for expenditure under the Atomic Energy Act, the appropriation for running expenses totals $22,534,000. This is almost $lm more than the figure appropriated last year and is to be expended upon research and development, upon keeping up with the rest of the world against the day when in Australia we have, as we must, atomic power stations. The sooner we see nuclear power stations in Australia the better. We cannot continue to se our small resources of oil and gas for main line power generation, wasting our valuable coal, which must be saved as a source of hydrocarbons. 
For the Ranger uranium project, the payment to Australian Atomic Energy Commission, or otherwise, of a sum of $20m is provided. This is a new item and provides funds for the Commonwealth's involvement in the development of the Ranger project. It relates to the joint venture agreement with Peko-Wallsend Operation Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Co., of Australia to mine uranium in the Northern Territory. The contribution of the Commonwealth, through the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, will be 72.5 per cent of the capital expenditure involved. The companies will contribute 13.75 per cent each. On the operating side, the Commonwealth will contribute 50 per cent and the companies 25 per cent each. The total capital cost spread over several financial years is estimated to be $32 lm. To that sum contribution by the Commonwealth for 1978-79 will total $44m. That will be financed by this Budget appropriation of $20m, and by borrowings on the part of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission of some $24m. The figure for 1978-79 should have been considerably higher, but unfortunately the protracted negotiations with the Northern Land Council have meant that no work will be done before the wet season. This makes the next appropriation item rather inappropriate. I refer to the provision of $125,000 for the reimbursement of legal and other expenses of the Northern Land Council. I hope that it is to be in the form of a loan, to be repaid when the royalties start pouring in. 
Some further items that fit in the general run of expenses associated with the overall nuclear energy program include capital works for the Australian Atomic Energy Commission- again under the Atomic Energy Act- for which $1.25m, only $1 1 1,000 more than was appropriated last year, is to be provided. Another is the contribution of $30,000 towards the administrative costs of the Uranium Advisory Council- a new item. 
In keeping with the Government's energy policy there are in the Bill another three new items. The first is the provision of $848,000 for the Australian- West German coal liquefaction feasibility study. The second is $4m for the energy research, development and demonstration program. The third is $50,000 for the National energy conservation publicity campaign. 
Two items under the appropriation for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development are in keeping with the recommendations of the Fox report and the Government's commitment to preservation of the environment adjacent to mines. They relate to the provision for the Supervising Scientist and the Alligator Rivers Region Research Institute. The appropriation for protection of the environment under the Alligator Rivers Region Act is $760,000- a new item for services. For capital works and laboratory equipment the provision is $430,000, as compared with $85,603 last year. The Act provides for the appointment of a supervising scientist to oversee measures for the protection of the environment of the Region from the effects of uranium mining. It also establishes a co-ordinating committee and a research institute for the Region. Thus far the Supervising Scientist's activities have been concentrated upon obtaining precise environment base line data for the area, including the construction of a temporary field research station. This information, as I learned when visiting the area, is vital. The continual natural presence in the creek system of sulphate ions had been established. One can easily envisage at a later date the ..........:--' finding sulphate ions and gleefully pointing to an insufficient containment of the sulphuric acid that is used in processing the ore. The scientists have logged all aspects of water flow and the complete cleansing action of the wet season. 
I come now to the most vital aspect of the energy crisis- capital. There is a major interaction between the ability to sustain stable economic growth and the ability to supply the energy needs of the world. This situation is most clearly and crucially met in the problems of generating the enormous quantities of capital that will be needed to provide the new energy systems of the world and the international trade in energy sources. If major moves to solve the problem of energy substitution are too long delayed so that they coincide with a period of steeply-increasing oil and gas prices, it will not be possible to accumulate the immense amounts of capital that are required. We cannot begin putting capital aside, but we can push atomic energy research and development and conservation. The world depends on it and Australia, as a major energy supplier, must play a big role. 
I would like to take the time to tell honourable members how the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has distorted the picture completely and to give the facts. Unfortunately, the honourable member for Reid has no real reeling for Aborigines, but just keeps pushing his unbalanced tirades for the Friends of the Earth. 
I will be covering five aspects of the estimates of the Department of Science: One, the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology; two, the Australian LANDSAT facility; three, the 
Ionospheric Prediction Service; four, the AngloAustralian Telescope Board; and lastly, the World Meteorological Organisation. The Bureau of Meteorology has a total budget for this year of $38.75m, but this is up by only $1.2m from last year. It is perhaps difficult to overestimate the importance of weather information to a country such as Australia, so there is a continuing effort to ensure the best possible service within existing resources and to keep a close watch on new technology developed by improved forecasting. Since the first synoptic weather charts were drawn in the late 1700s meteorologists have been faced with three major problems in making accurate forecasts. They are: Insufficient observations, insufficient knowledge of weather processes and difficulty in solving the complex mathematical equations. Great advances have been made, particularly in communications, although the expenditure of nearly $5m on postage, telegrams and telephone services gives only some idea of the need for communications. 
However, the greatest changes have come about in recent years with a simultaneous development of weather satellites and computer technology. Australia has been in the forefront in using satellite weather data and our Bureau has always tried to take full advantage of each new development in this field. The first TIROS weather satellite was launched by the United States in 1960 and Australia was one of the first countries to use its satellite photographs for research purposes. Initially photographs from the satellite were sent by mail on request. In 1963 a station was established in Melbourne to receive automatic picture transmission directly from the satellite. Similar stations were installed in Darwin and Perth in 1 968 and later in Brisbane in 1972. At first these polar-orbiting satellites could provide photographs only during the day, but by 1970, with the development of infra-red cameras suitable for use in space, it became possible to obtain pictures of cloud cover over Australia at night. 
The most important new development is the advent of the Japanese geostationary meteorological satellite which began service this year. From its fixed orbit 36,000 kilometres above the equator near West Irian it has a magnificent panoramic view of weather patterns over Australia, Japan, South East Asia, New Zealand and adjacent oceans. Whereas the American satellites provide pictures at 12-hourly intervals, this Japanese satellite allows assessments every three hours. In addition, this data may well lead to an improvement in the understanding of weather processes, particularly the way in which fronts and depressions evolve and intensify. All these factors should lead to an eventual improvement in forecasting accuracy, particularly for short term periods of about 12 hours. A new computer message switching system in Melbourne will perform the function of the Telecom-operated switching centres and the Bureau's interstate switching centres. Improving weather forecasts, even marginally, requires a great deal of research effort and expenditure. Development of accurate long range forecasts appears to be some time away, whilst the ability to forecast changes in climate may not be achieved until well into the future. However, we can be encouraged and confident that these efforts and future developments will eventually lead to more accurate and longer range weather forecasts throughout Australia. 
Another program which I talked about earlier this year is LANDSAT which has a budget for plant and equipment of $ 1.6m. This is only part of a three-year establishment program. The American LANDSAT program uses satellites orbiting every 18 days to provide repetitive coverage of the entire land surface. The information from them can be converted into photographic images in four visual and infra-red spectral bands and these can be used as an important supplement and cost saving to existing data gathering. LANDSAT can be used in crop yield forecasting, the identification of diseased crops, pasture management, soil conservation, geological exploration, mapping ecological surveys, monitoring pollution, forest inventories, water resources, flood and bush fire control and marihuana search. Whilst we were originally able to obtain this data from America, this source is no longer available due to technical difficulties in the satellites and we now need a receiving station in Australia with all its attendant processing facilities. I notice that a contract for the electronic equipment has just been let. A further American program, SEASAT, will be launched in 1981. This will provide coverage similar to that provided by LANDSAT but of marine resources, but it can use LANDSAT facilities- truly a worthwhile program. 
An item in these estimates which receives very little media attention is the Ionospheric Prediction Service. The cost this year is $917,000 compared with $780,000 last year. This fascinating service is vital to users of long distance radio communications. Commonwealth and State government departments, shipping companies, the Royal Flying Doctor Service and universities receive long term predictions and some 70 organisations receive warnings of short term disturbances. This information comes from a chain of 24-hour ionospheric observing stations from New Guinea to Antarctica and from telescopes watching the sunspots, the activity of which has a great effect on high frequency communications. 
The Anglo-Australian Telescope Board has an expenditure of $lm this year, which is up from $850,000 last year. The Board of three members each from the United Kingdom and Australia controls the observatory. It is of interest that  Sir Fred  Hoyle, the famous astronomer, was its initial  Chairman.  The telescope came into regular operation in June 1975 and its performance has been exceptional. This is due no doubt to the stringent specifications and the adherence to them during manufacturing and optical finishing. The research programs have a strong emphasis on extragalactic astrophysics- a study of the physical conditions in the galaxies lying outside our own Milky Way system- and how these have evolved. There is also the study of how individual stars are born, evolve and die and of the interstellar gas from which we suspect new stars are forming. Amongst the many interesting programs are: Redshifts for Parkes, plus or minus 4 degrees QSO's- sounds impressivecounterparts of OH services and possible duplicity of subdwarf B stars, galactic bulge planetary nebulae, spectroscope examination of cer X-3 and transient X-ray sources. Overall, it is a program of which Australia can be proud. 
Another service- the World Meteorological Organisation- will receive $160,000 for its first global experiment. Thousands of scientists from many countries will be using an internationally co-ordinated system of satellites, instrumented aircraft, ships, balloons, drifting ocean buoys and high speed computers to subject the atmosphere and sea surfaces to the most intensive surveillance ever conducted. Australia, for its part, will provide 50 drifting ocean buoys and recording equipment in regular Qantas flights plus ground control support. Australia can be very proud of its Department of Science and the programs which it funds. 
Small business is vital to Australia, both to our economy and to our way of life. The Liberal-National Country Party Government has always recognised this and has taken a number of important steps to encourage and foster small business. The Fraser Government has steadfastly pursued a responsible economic policy with the top priority of reducing inflation and thereby restoring the climate for expanding business activity and investment. Our bringing inflation down has been of great help to small business. Further, Federal Government spending has been controlled and the Public Service has been cut to a responsible level allowing the major growth to come from the private sector. One big item which has helped small business has been the additional investment allowance for taxation purposes on the purchase of new plant and equipment. The figure is now 20 per cent. It is applicable to June 1985 and can be fully claimed in the year in which the equipment goes into operation. 
The firm control on government spending, better management of financial resources and the lower rate of inflation are now paving the way for lower interest rates. With lower inflation, the importance of our bringing in trading stock valuation is lessened but the adjustment of the value of trading stocks for taxation purposes helps to avoid the erosion of the capital base of business. Then there is the increase of the retention allowance from 50 per cent to 60 per cent of profits for private companies. This, coupled with the indexation of personal income tax, has been of immense value to the small businessman. 
Alongside these important steps have been other helpful innovations such as the extension of the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank to enable it to lend to all kinds of businesses and to provide equity finance to small business. The guidelines of the Reserve Bank of Australia have been extended to cover major financial institutions to stress this Government's aim of improving the finance facilities available to small businesses. Further, the Government has followed a policy of, where possible, purchasing locally made goods to fill Commonwealth orders and of encouraging State governments and local government to do the same. There is also a support program of short practical publications oriented specifically to the small business owner-manager, and there is a Bureau of Industry Economics to undertake research into longer run economic issues relevant to small business sectors. 
In these three Bills we have a further aid to one section of industry, a revised bounty scheme for the metal working machine tools industry in Australia. The main Bill extends the bounty arrangement, while the other two Bills amend earlier Acts which were needed as a consequence of the main Act. As the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said in introducing the Bills, they are based on the Industries Assistance Commission report No. 155 of 23 December 1977 on metal working machine tools. The basis for this report was a referral by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in December 1976 of the question whether assistance should be accorded to the manufacture in Australia of metal working machine tools after the termination of the Metal Working Tool Bounty Act 1972, the provisions of which have been extended until 30 June 1979 and, if so, what should be the nature and extent of any such assistance. 
The Minister required the Commission, in answering the above question, to have regard for the provisions of the Metal Working Tool Bounty Act and the Government's objective that at least the nucleus of a machine tools industry should be maintained in Australia' and asked the Commission to report by 31 December 1977, which I am glad to note it did. Let us look firstly at the Commission's conclusions regarding the nucleus. It felt that the total level of activity in the industry should not fall below the present level and that associated design and development should be maintained at least at the existing levels; however, in keeping with these aims, recommendations must not hinder the introduction of flexible or versatile machines which might tend to replace existing technology. Since most machine tools used in the industry itself are of overseas origin, maintenance of this nucleus must not inhibit the availability of such machines. 
The industry can conveniently be divided into three major segments- standard metal removing machines, special purpose metal removing machines and metal forming and shearing machines. The total market in 1976-77 was $68m, of which only about $2 7m was the competitive market. Local manufacturers enjoyed 60 per cent of this competitive market but only 24 per cent of the total market. The employment for the goods under reference is not easy to establish, but it is of the order of 1,500 to 2,000 persons and more than half of these are involved with metal forming and shearing machines. Professional" engineers and draftsmen make up 10 per cent of this employment and skilled tradesmen account for 56 per cent. 
The aim of the Commission was a pattern of longer term assistance, thus the present high assistance to standard metal removing machines was maintained and the same rate was extended to all locally produced metal working machine tools of the metal removing, forming and shearing types. Such an assistance pattern provides scope for expansion of lower cost activities and serves to compensate, to some extent only, for any reduction in activity in the high cost standard metal removing machine tools segment. This group shows little prospect of improving its efficiency and does not contribute greatly to the efficiency of the industry generally. Levels of assistance in this Bill impose a cost on the community. One of the main reasons for giving such assistance is the special defence requirements. Perhaps this should be an item in the defence budget. At any rate, the Department of Defence should keep its requirements in regard to this industry under review at all times. 
The industry should not expect such levels of assistance to continue for ever or even after 30 June 1984. It must continue to make every effort to improve its efficiency and to become competitive at lesser and lesser levels of assistance. It is expected that the structure of the industry will change and that the standard metal removing machine segment will alter its range and methods of production so that it produces machines that are more efficient and more appropriate to the changing demands. If such adjustments cannot be made successfully reductions in employment are possible. In contrast, employment in other segments will be assisted by the terms of this Bill. One would expect increased employment opportunities which should more than make up for possible losses in the standard machine segment. 
The existing bounty scheme is to run to 30 June 1979. However, it is obvious that if these revised bounties were not to start until then purchasing decisions would be deferred. The revised bounty scheme under this Bill therefore will be operative from 25 May 1978. Whilst it is not possible to guess the overall effect on the industry, it is expected that the bounty cost would be in the order of $8m, of which the extra bounty on design would cost a little over $400,000. I add that the IAC report is a remarkably complete assessment of the industry. The Commission deserves full credit for it. It was not carried out by volunteers. The 69 witnesses spent much time and therefore much cost in the preparation of material and in their presentations. One can only hope that the overall effect on Australia from this cost and the bounty cost will be on the plus side- in other words, a benefit. 
While the Labor Party may not be opposing this Bill, honourable members should remember its performance while in office. It reduced tariffs across the board by 25 per cent, which hurt all manufacturers of these machine tools. In summary, we have a Bill which is a further help to one sector of the industry, the metal working machine tools industry. It should save jobs, but at a cost to the community. It also will ensure the maintenance of the nucleus of this industry, with all its defence significance. I commend the Bills to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to an article published in the  Australian  of 1 1 August 1 978 stating that an Aboriginal who killed a man by spearing him through the heart, and who was then released on a bond because tribal punishment had been meted out, has since expressed his remorse and been accepted back into his community. 
If so, can the Attorney-General say why  Mr Hutt,  other ethnic groups or even.other Australian families cannot get similar sentences for murder, if their groups are prepared to mete out their own punishment. 
Is this practice contrary to common law in Australia. 
Will the events described in part ( I ) encourage apartheid or separatism for the Aboriginal race. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Health. In view of the success of the trachoma program and the continuing government concern for the health of Aborigines, has any consideration been given to similar programs? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Special Trade Representations. Has the Minister seen reports referring to the need for more visits by Ministers to Asia, particularly to the countries comprising the Association of South East Asian Nations? Will the Minister be visiting these countries? 
It appears from the speech of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  that he does not want a $200m world competitive engine plant in Melbourne. Is that what he is really saying? 
-However, the new motor vehicle plant announced by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  on 22 February has been received with approval, although perhaps qualified approval. Final approval of course must await final plans. From the time of the first announcement by General Motors-Holden's Ltd there has been a great deal of discussion. This discussion has been broad and wide-ranging, particularly in my electorate of Hotham. I have a plant of the Nissan company - one of the big five car manufacturers- there and I also have many dozens of component manufacturers. 
I suggest that there are more component manufacturers in Moorabbin than in any other city, and there are many others in adjacent areas. Therefore, I would probably represent more component manufacturers than does any other member. It would be interesting to hear from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  whose electorate contains the GMH plant at Fishermen's Bend and the Australian Motor Industries Ltd plant at Port Melbourne. He must be torn between representing GMH, component manufacturers and Australian Motor Industries Ltd, which does not stand to make so much from the deal, in his electorate, and the unions to which he has to answer. Normally very good at the back flip, he would be forced to throw in the towel. One also wonders about the honourable member in whose electorate the Ford plant at Broadmeadows is situated. Not being good at the back flip, he has not even stripped for this fray. 
In spite of the wide range of products and interests, there was complete agreement in principle that a change in the automobile industry was necessary. There was fairly general agreement that complementation would be part of this change. As more of the General-Motors Holden 's plan came out and assessments were made, it became obvious that the details of this change would probably cause some heartburn to various manufacturers. I suppose that the Nissan company would support the General-Motors Holden 's proposal more than most because world supply has been an act of faith with the 
Japanese automobile industry. Even though the Japanese manufacturers may not be set up to take advantage of the new proposals immediately, they will look into the future and make decisions to fit in with the new ideas. Nevertheless, Nissan must have its concerns. Primarily, its opposition has gained a jump on it. Also, along with all car manufacturers, Nissan has troubles with suppliers, quality, delivery and cost. How it works this out will depend on the final plan and how it assesses the situation at that time. 
So, while there is support for a change in the industry, there are concerns. Let us look first at these concerns and see how they affect the component manufacturers and then let us look at how these concerns have been overcome already or can be overcome in the future. The first concern is about the timing and, more particularly, the 'demand' by GMH that the Government give a reply by 28 February. On wonders what the planning department of this mighty company is up to when major decisions have to be made so quickly. Perhaps to some extent the answer lies in the fact that Australia and an engine line are pretty minor parts of General-Motors' world concept. Then one is painted a picture of the GMH boss successfully selling Australia's part in the world scheme. However, there is more behind the scene than just last month's frantic wheeling and dealing. The Minister for Industry and Commerce has been actively engaged in the automobile industry for years, and for at least one year has been looking for answers. Last year he visited the automotive centres of the world and heard at first hand the principle of the world car- not a new principle, but one which was, by then, moving out of the realm of dreams and into planning and action. The overall concept of General-Motors Holden 's was not really the surprise to the Government that the Press would have us believe. However, it was a surprise to some component manufacturers and, therefore, the Government and GMH should take them into account when the final plans are drawn up. 
The next concern of the component manufacturers was the indication given in late 1978 that there would be no change in the present plan until after 1984. The industry was just starting to recover from the last three or four years. In some cases it was starting to be competitive with overseas suppliers. Plans based on the present plan had meant investments which could now suffer. I believe that the Minister has appreciated this situation and has been able to help by negotiating a new operational date, 1 March 1982. Nevertheless, the final arrangements of the plan must take notice of certain upsets to the industry and provide for compensation in some way to the component manufacturers. Of course, this would not be by way of cash adjustments but probably by way of allowing them to get into the world car plan. 
Whilst the two concerns mentioned so far are fairly specific, it is the general lack of knowledgewhich seems to pervade the industry which hurts the most. There is a lack of knowledge about the details of the General Motor-Holden plan and doubts have arisen from General Motors-Holden Press releases and media speculation. Obviously, too, the number of jobs involved causes wide speculation. Whilst General Motors-Holden engine component manufacturers will increase some aspects of their trade and, thus, provide more jobs, and the General Motors-Holden engine works will employ more also, other component manufacturers could be hit. It will therefore be essential in discussions on future plan details that all this be taken into account. Again, to ensure that Australia comes out ahead, it will be necessary for the component manufacturers to be involved with complementation. We all hope that General Motors-Holden's talk of cheaper cars is not 'pie in the sky'. We hope that its figure of $ 1000 per car is realistic. The pressure is now on GMH to back its words, and I am sure it will. 
The Australian public must have a concern for the prices of spare parts. There have been previous inquiries into the prices of spare parts but they still seem to be very high. It has to be established whether spare parts will be complemented as well so that, hopefully, their price will be held down accordingly. As the industry is aware, but honourable gentlemen may not be, the car makers keep control of components, of spare parts and of the makers of spare parts by owning the tools required to manufacture these parts. Thus, they say where these parts go and, in effect, control the situation. In this future plan we should look to expanding the area in which our component manufacturers can work. I believe that Ford in Australia can sell only to New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. Under the future plan I hope that the parts franchise is greatly widened. Further discussion will obviously be necessary to ensure that spare parts prices do not take up the savings that are to be made on the car price. 
We applaud the new capital investment in Australia by General-Motors Holden 's. The true figure of $1 10m will be nearly as welcome as the announced figure of $2 10m, which is the total investment in the whole project. It would have also helped in assessments if the lost investments by component manufacturers had been known. Of course, if component manufacturers get a reasonable share in their own complementation schemes, this would be a real plus on the investment scene. 
There are still many details to be worked out particularly in respect of the dollar for dollar concept. I have no doubt that much effort will go into this side of the matter to ensure that Australia benefits overall. We will have to look at transfer pricing arrangements, transport costing, marginal costing possibilities, currency exchange changes and other 'invisibles'. There will also need to be changes to the export incentives Bill. Just as there are difficulties with the 85 per cent local content plan, there will be difficulties with this plan. There must be great emphasis placed on devising a plan which will cover most eventualities. For example, what happens if a country importing GMH motors changes its laws and insists on a $2 to $ 1 arrangement its way? 
The elements of the plan as detailed in the Minister's statement are as follows: Firstly, the dollar for dollar off setting of exports and imports for by-law entitlements; secondly, the scheme starting on 1 May 1982; thirdly, complementation starting at five per cent with increases determined at an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry; and fourthly, the plan to continue after 1984 with no less favourable assistance. It is this IAC inquiry which of course is now of great importance to all those interested in the automotive industry- vehicle builders, trade unions, component manufacturers and consumer groups. The Government has said that within a few weeks it will give the IAC a reference seeking: 'advice within 12 months on post- 1984 assistance arrangements . . . and an interim report within six months on the remaining elements of the export credit scheme, to be introduced into the present Plan'. 
It is now up to the interested parties to prepare their cases and to work to a viable plan to rationalise the industry. They all have their chance now. I am sure that the Government will appreciate the advantages that certain groups and individual companies have gained and will be looking to see that those groups and companies which have been disadvantaged will gain the opportunity to find other markets or gain offsetting advantages. The Government does not in principle want to get involved in industry, but it has to do so in this case because of the small Australian sales in a large capital industry. I am sure that the Government appreciates that it will be judged by industry as a whole and that it will look to its laurels to ensure that it maintains the confidence that industry presently has in it. 
-by leave- I second the remarks made by the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  It must be appreciated that the report, however long, cannot cover fully the subject of the health of Aborigines. The submissions made to the Committee stand two metres high and it listened to evidence from hundreds of people. The Committee put recommendations, but it will be up to the departments, both State and Federal, to carry them out. The responsibility for the health of all Australians lies with the Federal and State health departments and always has. They must be held responsible for the terrible situation of Aboriginal health. Many other Federal and State departments have responsibility for areas which impinge on Aboriginal health, and they also must take responsibility for the existing situation. It it felt that the health of Aborigines would not be as bad as it is if all Federal and State departments and authorities had accepted over the years their full responsibility and seen Aborigines as part of a total community, albeit a disadvantaged group. The Committee has recommended that the Federal Government make very clear its commitment to Aborigines and make extra efforts to ensure that all Federal and State departments and authorities accept their full responsibility. 
I wish to make some other points to indicate the direction in which I believe further work should go. The emphasis of all further work on Aboriginal health must be towards prevention. Only in isolated cases is there any indication that that is the policy or the practice. Make no mistake, there is a backlash against the Aborigines, or more particularly against the payment to them of large sums of money. We must be careful to treat them as we treat other Australians, and that is one reason to use existing departments of health, even if they have to make some adjustments, rather than introduce new schemes responsible to committees or to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. There seems to be no overriding case for splitting the responsibility of State or Commonwealth health departments because Aboriginals are involved. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs should be a co-ordinating body and a funding body. It should not be doing anything that other departments or authorities can or should do. The fact that another department or authority is not doing its job well enough in relation to Aborigines is not a reason for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to take over that function. It should be the ombudsman of the Aborigines to ensure that they get a fair go from all authorities. 
We must look to co-operation with the States to ensure the proper use of federal money given to the States for the welfare of the Aborigines. Responsibility must be allocated definitely, and again I come back to everyone accepting his responsibility. Much thought will have to go into arranging the organisation structures in Aboriginal communities if we expect them to play their role in Australia. We must appreciate that the structure within a clan and the very limited interclan structure are not good enough for the jobs that we expect of Aboriginal communities. At the same time, we must look to the future and realise that the only way in which the Aboriginal communities can fit into the Australian community is by adapting to our organisation structures. The task now is to find the intermediate structures that will bridge the gap in culture and time. We must remember that self-determination is not self-government. Self-determination can take place only within the laws of the land- Federal, State and local. Whilst we can look to the needs of the people as expressed by the people, that is often not enough. 
One of the serious deficiencies we found in our travels related to the assessment of programs and progress. This lack of assessment applied to all areas in which money was spent on Aborigines. 
There seemed to be no cost evaluations, no comparison between aims and action, and generally no figures on which to base assessments. This probably starts with the absence of definite objectives for programs and anyone with overall responsibility for projects. One could easily arrive at an opinion that more and more money is spent on Aborigines, with the feeling that money must help. Statistics are important, but the lack of them should not be used as an excuse for doing little or nothing. Aboriginal health is bad. We can all see that and we know most of the reasons why. We should get on with the job of preventing ill health now. Statistics, evaluations and assessments will follow. There have been a vast number of reports on Aboriginal health and on most aspects of it. In fact, I believe 1,100 books have been written on the subject. Searching for the reasons why we are still beset with the problems of ill health, one must eventually focus on commitment or lack of it. Federal and State health departments have always been responsible for the health of Australians and that includes Aboriginals. Those departments must accept that they have done a terrible job. Now they should re-assess the situation, accept their full responsibility and get on with the job. 
Let us start by looking at the Harrisburg incident with reason and with the facts in mind. I use the word 'incident' deliberately because it is not an accident and no one, as far as we know, has been injured, much less killed. Many of the newspapers and other media and, of course, those who oppose the use of uranium, continue to use the word 'accident', though I notice that the more responsible newspapers have changed to 'incident'. It is a serious matter, but not as serious a matter as when a super tanker full of highly volatile petrol nudges a pier and holes its side, spilling petrol everywhere. That, of course, would not rate a mention in our newspapers. It is a matter for concern, but so was it a matter for concern when an Australian dam broke recently killing a person. That gained a column and a half in a few newspapers. 
Harrisburg is a disaster, not in physical terms but in terms of the effect it could have on the standard of living of millions and millions of people. Unless we put this matter into perspective then the world must expect to pay huge amounts more for its energy. This will reduce the living standards of all Australians, of all in the Western world, and of all in the developing countries. One cannot help but note that most of the opposition to nuclear power comes from the Friends of the Earth organisation, financed by Russia, and from militant union leaders who regularly visit Russia and are at the opposite end of the political spectrum from us. No one complains about opposition to technical subjects as long as the opposition is based on facts and argued on facts, but when concerted opposition, such as that orchestrated over recent years, is based only on misleading information and designed to appeal to sentiment and emotion, one must be concerned about the real motive behind such action. 
Let us first put the matter into perspective. What we are looking at is the human cost of various methods of producing electricity. Hydropower costs lives in the building of dams and the occasional breaking of a dam has caused huge loss of life. There have been recent examples of this in Peru, Italy and America. Oil burning power stations require hundreds of tanker ships, many of which have blown up, killing hundreds and polluting wide areas. Then there are road and rail tankers which cause road deaths, and let us not forget the pollution caused by oil furnaces and the thousands of premature deaths attributed to this. Then there are coal-burning power stations. The danger to humans from the toxic materials spewed into the air from coalfired stations in the United States of America alone is estimated to cause 10,000 to 50,000 premature deaths. Although there have been 88,000 deaths from underground coal mining in the United States of America alone since 1907, and hundreds are killed there each year in levelcrossing smashes with coal trains, one never hears that power generation by coal-burning is dangerous. 
To put the matter into perspective, let us look at nuclear power generation. Whilst there is reason to believe that there might have been some premature deaths in the early rnining of uranium because it was not appreciated that radon gas was present, this occurred years ago. 
However, there has been no loss  of life  in any of the nuclear power stations and I pray that there will be none in Harrisburg. There is no pollution of the atmosphere by gases and, thus, no premature deaths. Let us now put radiation into perspective and look at radiation hazards, but again in terms of fact and not fiction. Those opposed to uranium do not tell us that coal-fired power stations give off radioactivity which has a longer life than the emission from nuclear power stations; nor do they tell us that there is more radioactivity in whisky, milk, salad oil and tap water than there is from nuclear power stations. There is a unit called a milli-rad used in the measurement of radiation. A medical x-ray produces SOO milli-rads and cancer treatment produces, say, 4,000 milli-rads. Yet people recover from it. Compare their position with that of a person sitting alongside a nuclear reactor for 10 years. That person would be exposed to up to 2 milli-rads. Radiation in the air is 5 milli-rads. From rocks and soil we get another SO milli-rads, from cosmic rays, 30 milli-rads and from body salts 17 milli-rads. Just by living 150 feet above sea level gives us another 2 milli-rads and flying at 35,000 feet from Canberra to Perth and back gives one another 2 or 3 milli-rads. The annual radiation naturally received by a person in Australia is 100 milli-rads. People in parts of Brazil are exposed to 13,000 milli-rads, but they do not die any sooner than other people. Compare their situation with that of those who for 10 years have lived near a reactor where radioactivity is between one and two milli-rads. In Harrisburg the maximum radiation to which anyone has been exposed is the equivalent of three chest x-rays. Perhaps the Opposition ought to tell us more about this. 
The opposition to nuclear power stations has endeavoured to make the word 'nuclear' synonymous with 'bomb'. A nuclear explosion in a nuclear power station is absolutely impossible and the newspapers which talk of the possibility of a nuclear explosion at Harrisburg are completely irresponsible. They are scaremongering. It is a pity that they do not talk to people and obtain the facts before printing that rubbish. Now that I have shown that nuclear power is the safest of all generating systems, and the least polluting, let us look at the ramifications of shutting down all nuclear power stations, as some unthinking people have been stupid enough to suggest. To carry on from what the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  was saying, at present 70 nuclear power reactors provide 13 per cent of the electrical power in the United States of America. In some areas, such as Chicago and New 
England, nuclear power is half the total power generated. The editorial in the  Age  yesterday stated: 
To close down all its 70 nuclear power stations could be, according to a Senate expert, as devastating as the complete loss of Saudi Arabian oil. Even if the sophisticated Western nations shy away from nuclear energy, the developing countries (probably less skilled in its safe operation) and the communist countries are unlikely to be deterred. The Soviet atom physicist and Nobel Peace Prize laureate,  Dr Andrei  Sakharov, warned last year that the alternative to nuclear energy development was Western political dependence on the communists. 
Yet some people still doubt who the opposition is and why we are fed lies on this matter. At this stage I can almost guarantee that we will have many calls for solar energy. The fact is that the sun can provide only a limited amount of energy, and even the wildest dreamers see that it can meet only 5 per cent of the total energy requirements. Of course, this 5 per cent is important and this Government has spent and will continue to spend many millions of dollars developing solar energy. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said earlier,  Sir Francis  Tombs, the famous British nuclear expert said of Harrisburg that over-reaction by the Press had created a mistaken public impression of the nature and importance of the incident, but supposed that it was inevitable that it should sensationalise its reporting. If any good is coming out of this incident, it is that most of the safety measures have proved effective. At the moment, it looks that everything will be under control very shortly. I again pray that there will be no loss of life. In conclusion, I again quote yesterday's  Age  editorial: 
Serious and frightening though the Three Mile Island accident is- and horrific though it could be- it should not throw the Western world into a panic Naturally, it calls  For  the most careful investigation and for redoubled efforts to establish and ensure more adequate safeguards. But before more drastic decisions are made, the actual and potential hazards of nuclear energy have to be compared with those of other industries and activities, and weighed against its benefits and the costs of doing without  it  Such an assessment is not easy, but it is better made from a basis of knowledge and judgment than in a turmoil of popular fears and passions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many defence forces personnel have attended briefings or courses at the instigation of Australian foreign affairs and defence authorities or the authorities of recipient nations in (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom and (c) other countries for each year since I January 1970. 
) What is the name and rank of each of the personnel. 
What were the courses attended and/or the purposes of the visits. 
What were the periods of stay out of Australia. 
) What were the costs to the Australian Government. 
-This is the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, which seeks to amend the Atomic Energy Act 1953. The principal Act was also amended in 1958, 1966, twice in 1973, 1974, 1976 and three times in 1978. It might be of interest to look at the original Act and in it the formation of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. The Act then goes into the functions and the powers of the Commission. In spite of what the member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  had to say, the basic functions of the Act are: Firstly, exploration, mining, treatment and selling of uranium; secondly, the construction and operation of atomicpower stations; thirdly, the research and distribution of information on uranium and atomic energy. This Act was a widening of the Atomic Energy (Control of Material) Act 1946 and 1952, which was repealed. This shows that the early Menzies governments appreciated that atomic energy was the energy of the future, even in those days. 
In the 1 970s there was the full recognition of the vast energy store Australia possessed, in the form of its great uranium deposits in the north. The recent history leading up to this amendment started with the Government's announcement of its policy on the development of Ranger on 25 
August 1977. This was detailed in the second reading speech by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  Then on 9 January 1 979 we had the historic Government agreement on the Ranger uranium project between the Commonwealth of Australia, Peko-Wallsend Operations Ltd, Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd, and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the original Act of 1953 to provide the Australian Atomic Energy Commission with the necessary powers to borrow money in order to fulfil its obligations in connection with this Ranger agreement. This Bill also provides the opportunity to make some technical amendments which relate to the procedures, powers and operations of the Commission, and also to make drafting changes in line with current practice. 
The original sections 25 to 30A inclusive are repealed, because they allowed borrowing only for temporary purposes on overdraft. This amendment allows borrowing from the Commonwealth or elsewhere, and also gives security for non-Commonwealth borrowings and allows for the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to guarantee repayment. This is a commercial arrangement for the commercial Ranger agreement. They are standard provisions in relation to borrowings by Commonwealth authorities. Further, there are clauses covering estimates, clause 30a- proper accounts, clause 30C- and audits, clause 30D- all necessary and desirable. Under clause 32 are exemptions from taxation, which are updated. This does not confer exemption from payroll tax on Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd as manager of the project. It would still be liable to payroll tax on that proportion of the payroll to be funded by the Commission. That is under the joint venture agreement. Similarly, in relation to other taxes which may be levied by the Northern Territory, the exemption for the Commission will not operate to confer exemption on Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd. 
This amendment to the Atomic Energy Act is just one part of the implementation of the uranium export policy stated on 1 June 1978. The Government's policy is based on  Mr Justice  Fox's inquiry. It is a carefully regulated and controlled development, having full regard to the protection of the environment and of the welfare of the Aboriginals. Further, it takes into account the overall national interest and Australia's obligation as a responsible member of the international community. It recognises that Australia must play an important role in the nonproliferation of nuclear weapons and the strengthening of nuclear safeguards. The policy recognises Australia's obligation as a country well endowed with energy resources to make those resources available to other countries, many of which have no alternative in the wake of the world energy crisis but to turn to nuclear energy as a means of supplying electricity to their peoples. 
Honourable members, and particularly honourable members opposite, would do well to read the proceedings of the World Energy Conference held at Istanbul in 1977. I shall summarise some of the main conclusions. Whatever figures one likes to put on the growth of the world population, despite the most rigorous energy conservation measures and despite tremendous strides in efficiency, the world energy demand in just 40 years will at least triple and maybe quadruple. The Conference concluded that there may well be enough energy resources, at a price, and at the expense of depleting most of our hydrocarbons, for these 40 years or even longer. But, there is still enough for a finite time only. Of course, one snag is that these resources are unevenly distributed. This means a vast increase in international trade in fuels. The coal trade, with its large transport costs, will have to increase 10 times. Sun, wind and tide may well be used in this time but they can never have other than a marginal effect- 3 per cent to 5 per cent- in the overall situation. 
With declining oil resources it was concluded that there will be tremendous substitution of fuels, particularly by means of coal and nuclear fuels. The most effective way of introducing substitute fuels into the energy economy is by conversion to electricity, which will increase sixfold. This cannot be met without nuclear power and breeder reactors. In the absence of a vast program of nuclear power development some more highly developed countries which are rich in other fuel resources may be able to maintain their economies at an acceptable level. However, the great brunt of this lack of nuclear development will fall upon the highly populated developing countries. The resultant effects on food and industrial production will be chaotic. The Conference went on to say that if major moves to solve the problems of energy substitution are delayed so that they coincide with a period of steeply increasing oil and gas prices, it will not be possible to generate the quantities of capital needed for the new energy systems and international trade in energy resources. That is one of the most important points that can be made in regard to the energy situation. 
Besides the generation of capital, there will be the need to export capital to economically weak countries. Capital resources for electricity grids or pipelines will be inadequate in economically weak countries. This may mean economically strong countries with oil and gas resources will have to use more nuclear power to release oil and gas for simple low investment systems in developing countries. I hope the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  takes notice of that, since he is so concerned with those areas. Finally, the Conference concluded that enough information is available to make everyone aware of the energy crisis, and aware that definite action is required now, especially in the area of nuclear power. Those are the conclusions of the finest brains involved in the energy crisis. It does the Australian Labor Party little good to decry them. We must play our part now. 
I suppose honourable members will be subjected now to the regular burst from the honourable member for Reid in which he will try to say that Harrisburg is reason for stopping nuclear energy whereas, in fact, it was the proof that the safety devices worked. The honourable member for Blaxland, wearing his Scottish tie, may be interested to know that the Scots people are one of the greatest users of nuclear energy, and they are working towards a breeder reactor. It is a pity that honourable members opposite have no concern for the standard of living of so many of the people of this world. The honourable member for Blaxland said that he does not know what goes on at Lucas Heights. Every member of this House has been invited to go there. The local Labor Party member went a few years ago. Even the strongest opponent, the honourable member for Reid, has been invited many times. He has not accepted the invitation to find out what goes on there. How can they really talk against the Commission? 
In conclusion I point out that it can be seen that there is a massive and irrevocable commitment to nuclear power generation. Australia, with its uranium mining and export policies, is proceeding with purpose and determination in the implementation of its overall policy of uranium development. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Pipeline Authority Act 1 973. The Authority set up under the Act was given a vast range of functions and powers that were inherent in the socialist left aims of the Government in power at that time. The construction and operation of the natural gas pipeline between Moomba in South Australia and Sydney was carried out under the Act. It took nearly three years to construct this major project, which pumped natural gas from Moomba through 1,300 kilometres to Wilton, a gateway to Sydney. This massive operation involved the construction through outback country of 40 kilometres of pipeline a month at an annual expenditure of $90m. The Moomba-Sydney pipeline came into commercial operation on 18 December 1976, when gas was first delivered to the Australian Gas Light Co. at the Authority's custody transfer station at Wilton. 
The terms of the haulage agreement between the Authority and AGL are designed to enable the Authority to recover all costs and expenses, including interest, related to the construction and operation of the pipeline. This was to be done over 30 contract years of the agreement, subject to the carriage of 1.1412 x 10" cubic metres of natural gas during that period. Each day about  2  million cubic metres of natural gas passes through the pipeline. The design of the pipeline, however, provides for the transport of up to 9 million cubic metres of gas per day, and with the installation of compressors up to 22 million cubic metres- per day. Initially the flow is low, but as more households are connected and industry moves from oil this flow will increase. The latest full year figures show that the operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 1978 amounted to nearly $28m, which includes an interest figure of $23. 5m, compared with a revenue of only $1 1.5m. Thus the Authority ran at a loss for that year. As I said, the flow initially was low but it is increasing, and it is hoped that a profit will be made in the very near future. 
The total cost of the project to 30 June 1978 was $22 9m, with about $ 1 m still to be spent. The Authority is financed by advances made by the Minister for Finance under section 25(2) of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973 out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes of the Act. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has determined that the Authority shall pay interest on advances at the rate determined by the Australian Loan Council as applying to private semigovernment loans of the longest term, the rate in respect of each specific advance being the last such rate determined by the Loan Council prior to the advance being made. The rate of interest applying at 30 June 1978 was 9.7 per cent per annum. Advances are repayable in equal halfyearly instalments over a period of 20 years. Interest on advances is payable on 15 June and 15 December each year. A total of $70m has been paid in respect of interest from the time of the Authority's inception to 30 June 1978. The Authority is now generating sufficient cash flow to meet its operating expenses, excluding interest, and after allowing for capital expenditure of $1.2m and short-term investments of $500,000, it contributed $6.6m from its own resources towards the payment of interest to the Commonwealth Government during the year. 
The construction and maintenance of the Moomba-Sydney pipeline as detailed is the proper function of a statutory authority, in this case the Pipeline Authority. But the unlimited power to buy and sell petroleum, the control of  petroleum reserves, and the construction of more pipelines without authorisation of the Parliament are not proper functions of a statutory authority such as this. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  tried to compare a pipeline with a train or a hangar- a comparison of $ 1 m or $2m against $200m, $300m or $400m. That is hardly a worthy comparison. Perhaps I should tell the honourable member that he should have no concern regarding the future of this House. The honourable member alluded to the reasons for this Bill being brought before the Parliament. I believe that this Government will continue to run the country properly and that the Australian public will continue to return a Liberal government. 
The Pipeline Authority Act 1973 is being amended to vary the functions of the Pipeline Authority and to take away the unlimited power that it was given originally. The Bill also proposes changes to bring the Pipeline Authority into line with other statutory authorities, particularly in the areas of finance and its relationship with the Public Service Board. In conclusion, the Pipeline Authority is to be congratulated for successfully completing the major Moomba-Sydney pipeline. We look forward to its continuing operation as a regularly constituted statutory authority. I support the Bill. 
-Could the Minister for Industrial Relations tell the House about the situation at the Caltex refinery at Kurnell? Are the unions acting in a responsible manner for the good of all Australians? 
-One of the two Bills that we are debating cognately is the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill, the purpose of which is to continue to help the book manufacturing industry. The other is the Bounty (Injection-moulding Equipment) Bill to give transitional help to an industry. Most book manufacturing and much of the injectionmoulding machine manufacturing is small business. This responsible Government has appreciated that small business is very much a part of our way of life in Australia. It is vital to our economy and, therefore, we have encouraged small business in many ways. The main approach has been the responsible economic policy of the Fraser Government with its top priority of reducing inflation. This responsible attitude has restored the climate for expanding business activity and investment. The bringing down of inflation has made Australian products more competitive with overseas products. 
At this stage it is worth while noting some of the other responsible economic moves under the Liberal Government which have helped to bring small business back from the brink where they were under the Labor Government. Book manufacturers and injection-moulding machine manufacturers were helped by these moves. There is the additional investment allowance for taxation purposes on the purchase of new plant and equipment.  (Quorum formed).  Other measures are the increase of the retention allowance for private companies, the extension of the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank, and the extension of the Reserve Bank guidelines to major financial institutions. These last two have greatly improved the finance facilities available to small business. 
Let me turn attention to book manufacturing alone. The latest full figures, those for June 1976, show that the printing industry is large; in fact there are over 3,000 businesses employing 70,000 people. This accounts for over $ 1 ,500m worth of sales, with a profitability slightly above the manufacturing industry generally. However, book manufacturing is not a large part of the total printing industry. This sector employs about 1,500 people and another 300 are employed by supplying industries. In 1976-77 the turnover was about $28m and resulted in a lower level of profitability than that of the general printing industry. This represents 60 per cent of the total book market. In most cases books constitute a minor part of production of firms which produce them and no doubt this is one reason for limiting the bounty to books produced in a minimum run of 1,000 copies. This provision will overcome the arguments of the Opposition as stated in their amendment. 
In 1973 the Tariff Board report said this about the industry: 
The ability of the local book manufacturing industry to compete with its Asian counterparts has been impaired by fragmentation, excess capacity, high over award payments and union constraints on the operation of printers. 
The Opposition forgot to mention those. The report went on- 
The Board considers that the community should not be expected to bear, through bounty or other means of assistance, costs attributable to these factors. 
In the ensuing six years fragmentation decreased somewhat as some small businesses were driven to the wall under the Labor Government. This is not the way to reconstruct an industry. Excess capacity has remained and high over award payments have increased. This has all made the situation worse. Union constraints have certainly not reduced. Therefore, the Australian people continue to maintain these companies in business and these people in employment when they refuse to do much, if anything, to help themselves. I wonder whether the Australian people really understand the nature of the help they are giving? How long are we prepared to pay the price? As will be seen, the Australian Government has started the process to make the two parties involved aware of the situation and thus reverse the trend. 
Let us look at the help that these businesses and employees have been obtaining. This book bounty Bill is to amend further the original Act of 1969. This Act has already been amended in 1970; twice in 1973; in 1975; and in 1978. In May 1 969 the Government announced the introduction of an interim book bounty to operate immediately. This was to hold local manufacturers' sales at the 1967-68 level. The initial bounty was 25 per cent of the cost of production. This cost of production factor is very interesting. It is the bounty base and was defined in the Book Bounty Act as the price paid, or payable, to a manufacturer, or manufacturers, by a publisher for the production of, or the production processes carried out in relation to, the book. If the publisher is the manufacturer, bounty is payable on the cost incurred in producing the book. 
This statutory definition means, in fact, that the bounty is not based on costs incurred but on the cost, excluding some items such as outward freight and packaging, plus profit, less the bounty, of course.  (Quorum formed).  The initial bounty was 25 per cent of the cost of production. In 1973, on the recommendation of the Tariff Board, the Government increased the bounty to 33  W  per cent. This has meant an increase in bounty payments from 1969-70  or  $ 1.4m for 18 million books, with a production value of $7m, to a bounty of $8m for 37 million books, with a production value of $32m. This is a lot of bounty. The bounty was shared by 1,930 operations, although 10 of these accounted for 43 per cent of the $8m. The next 50 recipients of the bounty accounted for 33 per cent of the $8m. Thus we have yet to see a significant improvement in the fragmented structure of the industry. 
The Industries Assistance Commission, after examining the industry fully, recommended continuing the bounty at 33!/3 percent of production costs from 1 January 1 980 for two years and to reduce the bounty to 25 per cent for the next four years until the end of 1986. However, the Government has decided to phase in the reduction more gradually. The 33 per cent level will hold for two years as recommended, then 30 per cent will apply for one year and 25 per cent will apply for the remaining three years. This also applies to the cost of paper, but I cannot go into the details of that matter. Again the Government decided to phase in the reduction over a longer period. In keeping with the purpose of the bounty to protect against imports, certain types of books have become eligible for the bounty while other types will no longer be eligible for the bounty. The Government has shown that it is anxious to maintain employment and activity in the book industry. But it is also desirous of providing the opportunity and the incentive for the industry to restructure. 
The IAC is to be congratulated on its report. However, it must be remembered that these investigations cost a large amount of money. A large number of witnesses had to bear their own costs. We must also consider the large bounty which works out at a cost of over $6,000 a year for each person in the industry. This responsible Government has again given help to small business, in this case, the book industry. It should protect employment in the industry but also it puts the onus of restructuring on both the managements and the unions. I hope they accept this responsibility. 
The other Bill with which we are dealing in the cognate debate is the Bounty (Injectionmoulding Equipment) Bill. The Government's decision to protect the injection-moulding equipment industry is based on the recommendations of the IAC in its report on miscellaneous industrial machinery. As the spokesman for the Opposition said, unfortunately this report has not yet been released because the Government has still to announce the decisions on some products covered in the report. However, a draft report was released. I hope the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  notes that point. In keeping with many of the IAC's recent recommendations, a phasing down of assistance to help ensure a restructuring of industry was recommended. In this case, the decision has been made to reduce the rate of customs duty and to supplement the assistance with a bounty which will be phased out later. 
When the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  tabled the Customs Tariff Proposals No. 18 on 22 May 1979, he reduced the customs tariff from 55 per cent to 15 per cent, to take effect on the next day, that was, on 23 May 1979. This Bill covers the other side- the bounty side. The bounty will be payable at the rate of 45 per cent of the value added by the Australian manufacturers, but it will be phased out over five years, reducing at the rate of 1 0 per cent a year. It must be noted that the bounty will not be paid on equipment sold for export. It is of interest that Australia's largest injection-moulding equipment manufacturer, Johns Consolidated Ltd, is establishing a manufacturing base in Singapore which will presumably be making its new technology machines available for sale to the United States of America.  (Quorum formed).  However, it is expected that local manufacturers will be in a better position to develop their export markets as they become more competitive. 
Again, the cost of helping an industry is high. For the first year the cost will be $ 1.5m and the total for five years could be over $4m. This is a responsible Government, and it has again demonstrated that with its help to this small industry. I am glad that the Opposition is not opposing these Bills. They are good Bills put forward by a very responsible Government. I commend the Bills to the House. 
The matters of public importance which the Opposition bring forward, when it brings them up and how it brings them up, never cease to amaze me. This matter is not new, so why bring it up now? Opposition members had the opportunity to raise it during the debate on the last Budget and on other occasions? Presumably they think that there is some mileage to be gained before the bigger audience which has come to see the opening of the Budget Session. I do not know how, as the subject has been so well canvassed previously. One would think that if the matter were so important the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  would have spoken instead of the last choice in the popularity contest of the Whitlam Government. I notice that only 13 Opposition members are now present, which makes me think that the matter cannot be important to them. Why bring up the matter on the first day of the Budget Session?  (Quorum formed).  Oil pricing is only one part of the energy policy. The energy policies on which all countries are working- Australia's energy policy was enunciated on 27 June this year- were brought to a head by the price increases of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the crisis in Iran at the beginning of this year. 
Some countries, such as Japan and America, have massive problems for very different reasons. They are working on different approaches to their problems. America has had trouble in making its people understand the extent of its problems. In consequence it is having a great deal of trouble in getting acceptance of legislation to deal with the situation. However, the  President  and his energy advisers have indicated that Australia's approach is the answer and agree that America should have world parity pricing for oil. The whole idea of import parity is to allow decisions on energy to be made on the correct basis. It will provide a major incentive to increase oil exploration activity and maximise the development of existing fields. I will talk about that matter later. It will encourage conservation of scarce sources of energy. It will promote the use of available alternative energy sources. It will stimulate the commercial development of major new energy projects in areas such as oil shale- again, I will refer to this later- coal liquefaction and the extenders, ethanol and methanol. These things will come about only if we have a realistic price for petroleum products. 
Notwithstanding import parity pricing the price of petrol in Australia is lower than in all other countries except America and Canada. The choice is between paying realistic prices for petroleum products and not having access to adequate supplies. There are no other options. We need oil, not just for making petrol and diesel fuel for cars and trucks but for industry and electricity generation. Without oil many country towns would have no electricity. Many large cities would have power rationing. I think that this is what the Labor Party wants. In spite of the plaintive pleas of the low energy lobby there is no way that we can maintain the standard of living of Australians, much less raise it, unless we use more oil and more energy. This is not to say that we should not try to save oil. We must and we will. But this will be possible only through realistic pricing of oil. It is because of import parity pricing that oil companies are progressing with drilling on the North West Shelf. Without such a pricing policy they would be drilling off Timor, Indonesia or elsewhere to get realistic prices for their product. They would not be drilling on the North West Shelf. This is a reasonable proposition for the oil companies. It is a very reasonable approach by a government to help its balance of payments now and in the future. 
It is interesting to note that the Labor Party has put forward no alternative to cover its objectives, even though this matter came up a year or more ago, except to promote a socialist approach. We have not drilled extensively on land areas not considered prime oil bearing prospects. This has been for the reason which I mentioned previously. There are immense quantities of oil shale in the world. We certainly have a good share in Australia. It has been uneconomic to try to gain oil from this shale at the price the oil companies would have obtained for their product. It is not hard to understand why they did not proceed and why the Government has undertaken its energy policy. One must realise that oil wells presently take only 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the total oil from the field. This again is purely an economic decision based on the low oil prices. With the higher oil prices oil companies will now be able to afford to take the extra step of taking more oil from these fields. There are other means of gaining more oil from oil fields but much more research is required. This research will be done only if oil is realistically priced. 
We are going through supply problems because of political events overseas. These problems can be solved only by countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and OPEC agreeing on the obvious. It is obvious that each group needs the other and that they should get together to work out the best arrangements with respect to supply and demand. Honourable members may have read about some farmers in the United States of America lobbying for the swapping of a bushel of wheat for a barrel of oil. That is no solution to the problem, but it is the basis of their argument. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has a great record in international affairs. I would ask him to use his international status to bring the parties together. I am sure that amicable arrangements would result. The whole point at which the Opposition has directed its raising of this matter of public importance is not the reason for the pricing of petroleum products. Therefore, its whole argument has no relevance. We have shown good reason for setting the world parity price as the price for our oil. It affords many advantages to Australia. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. The Minister is of course familiar with the Australian tune and the fact that the words of Advance Australia Fair' are not officially the Australian song or anthem. Can the Minister arrange a competition for official words to the Australian tune? The words of 'Advance Australia Fair' may well win, but they should be official and not used just through lack of an accepted alternative agreed by the people of Australia. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, a Budget is not just a mass of figures and not just the plans and projections of a government for the next year. It is a political paper based on the policies, platform and philosophies of a government. So it was with this Government and with the Whitlam socialist Government. Thus we see that the opposition to the Budget is based on the Opposition's socialist dogma- a dogma proclaimed by the likes of Marx and Lenin and hailed again at the Australian Labor Party conference in Adelaide this year. History is a story- often very good reading- but it really has only one lesson. It teachers us what not to do. We should and must learn from the mistakes of others. History has recorded much of the rise and fall of civilisations. Rulers, in searching for greatness for their societies, spared little thought for the individual members of those societies. As serfdom broke down, rulers maintained their dominance over individuals with taxes, regulations and control of land. 
Perhaps the start of the liberating influence was at the end of the seventeenth century when John Locke proclaimed the right of the individual to his person and to his property and proclaimed the role of government to be limited to protecting those rights. The classic liberalsLocke, Adam Smith, David Hume and Edmund Burke, set the stage for modern Western civilisation and the heritage of our free society, which we all enjoy. Unfortunately, much of their influence waned as horrifying revolutions were fought for so-called equality and freedom and as Marx started his class wars. In the 1930s and 1940s, liberalism stirred strongly again, as expressed by Hayek when he warned the world of a new serfdom, a trend to collectivism, disguised with the trappings of equality and justice. After the Second World War the growth of liberal thinking restarted in earnest and has continued unabated. Australia was not left out in this revival and we saw the emergence of the Liberal Party. Many see the opportunity for this country to be a leader and pacesetter and for the strengthening of liberal values throughout the world. 
We look at the Budget with some of the background of the Government's thinking and philosophy. Unfortunately, this year's Budget is still tidying up the abuses of Whitlam and Hayden, who put their socialist imprint on their Budgets. But we see many signs of providing an atmosphere where true liberalism will function freely for the freedom of the individual. As we finish cleaning up the messes of Whitlam and Hayden we can expect to see more and more of the underlying principles of liberalism showing up in the facts and figures of future Budgets. I will again proclaim these principles. Our overriding principle in Australian political life is individual liberty. It must have the highest political value- a value to which all other values are subordinate. This is the complete opposite of the collectivism of our Opposition. Further, there must be a conscious philosophical prejudice against any intervention by the state- by governmentinto our lives. Such intervention abridges liberty. The rallying cry of Americans was: 'No taxation without representation'. We must follow this up by stopping the proliferation of semigovernment bodies and authorities. We must follow some of the American states with their sunset laws which force evaluation of such bodies. 
The principal that economic wealth and political liberty are independent is a critical one. The prosperity of the citizen depends only on production and technological innovation and not on government offices or politicians' laws, that is, the wealth of a nation comes from that portion of the marketplace which is free. Bureaucracies, with their tendencies to increase their own size and power, are essentially parasites on society. We must reduce them. The present mood of our Canberra-based departments to pull in their outlying groups, causing bigger conglomerates, must be resisted. Profits needed for investment must be respected as a great social blessing, not a social evil. Profits cause the growth of productivity, technological innovation, jobs and the wealth of the nation and its individuals. The linkage between wealth and evil, poverty and virtue is crude, false and stupid and will destroy this country's producers. Wealth can indeed be stolen, but only after it has been produced. The difference between stolen wealth and produced wealth is critical. Again, the distinction between deserving and undeserving poor is important. Poverty may result from honest misfortune but it may also come from laziness, incompetence and dishonesty. Achievers must not be penalised or parasites rewarded if we aspire to a healthy, productive and ethical society. 
The Australian citizen essentially understands all . these principles and their ramifications. He understands that Labor socialism refutes them. Unfortunately, socialism works in devious ways and we have to show it for what it really is- a righteous rationalisation of totalitarian tyranny, in the name of the collective well-being of the proletariat, race or fatherland and in the name of public interest, brotherhood and equality. Its result is an inability to produce, the destruction of the economic life, grinding poverty and, of course, tyranny. It is not enough for the citizen to understand these principles. He must constantly be reminding his servants- the bureaucrats and the politicians- of these principles so that we can be sure that our children and our children's children also have their individual freedom. 
One of the items that hold precedence in our Budget is the deficit. Many people tune out when they hear the word. Let me put it in the words of the family: You and your families can spend only as much as you can earn. For a short time you may be able to spend a little more than you earn. If you do not pay your bills on time, a friend or relative lends you some money or your bank managers mortgage your homes; this is temporary. If it continues you go broke and have to sell up your homes and belongings. This is the same for a company or a country, though a country has a temporary way out. Thi Government can print money, as Whitlam and Hayden did, to pay for its folly for a short time. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that student nurses in New South Wales have been told that they will not obtain jobs after graduation? Can the Minister advise whether this is correct? If not, what is the position? 
-In view of the mounting community concern about the possible health effects of asbestos, will the Minister for Health inform the House whether the National Health and Medical Research Council has made a study of the subject? 
One of this Governments great concerns is the extremely high and increasing health bill of the nation. This vast cost has two main components- firstly, the hospital costs, which are currently being investigated in conjunction with the States, and, secondly, the medical costs. The huge bill for medical costs can be broken down into doctors' fees themselves, and doctors' ordered costs- that is those tests and further consultations and surgery suggested or ordered by a doctor. These fees and costs are decided by the doctors themselves. While it is appreciated that due to inflation costs have gone up, the overall increase is far beyond this inflation cost. The situation has arrived that if the medical profession and the doctors themselves do not deal with these increases the Government must and will. 
As a free enterprise party, we do not believe we should intervene but it is not quite a free enterprise situation, and other considerations enter the picture. At the end of July this year, I gave the local Press a release in which I said: 'I do not think it right that an independent inquiry should decide one fee for doctors, the Australian Medical Association a higher one, and for some greedy doctors to charge an even greater fee.' That Press release produced a flood of complaints, outlining a story of high fees, abuses of the health insurance schemes, and just plain bad service and practice. Doctors agree with me but affirm that there are just a few bad eggs amongst them. I hope that this is true but find it hard to believe that this once great profession is losing its standing and goodwill through just a few bad eggs. It is not easy to find out what doctors charge, but sources working in the system suggest that from 50 to 60 per cent of doctors charge more than the medical benefits scheduled fees, and maybe as many as 20 to 25 per cent charge more than the AMA recommended fees. 
As for abusing the system, which is criminal fraud, we find an increasing number of doctors being counselled by medical services committees of inquiry, as a first step. I am led to believe that over 600 doctors in New South Wales alone have been reprimanded and had to repay the excess servicing. It requires many hours of work by the Commonwealth Police to provide the evidence to convict doctors of fraud. However convictions are not rare and 32 new cases came up in the last six months of 1978. 
Let us look more carefully at the abuses. A regular one is variation of hours- that is charging after hours fees and collecting higher benefits, for in hours consultations or visits. Then we have exaggeration of services- charging long consultation rates for standard visits and claiming for a complicated procedure when a simple one was performed. One doctor was so stupid and greedy that he claimed for working 27 hours a day. 
Another fraud is to give a bill for a consultation and another bill for a simple procedure which should have been included in the cost of the visit. Then there is non-attendance, where a patient telephones for advice or to renew a prescription and is then billed for a full consultation. A straight out fraud is claiming for services which have not been performed. Use of incorrect item numbers- always for higher fees, of course, is another area. This is common with doctors employed by locum services to cover the commission. At this stage I have not even touched on sessionally paid medical officers and their treatment of private patients, or touched on cosmetic surgery or even visits to nursing homes, but there are plenty of abuses there. Recently we had an irate G.P. writing to a Melbourne paper and showing another abuse. A Federal Government employee, due to retire shortly, had accumulated sick leave and so he approached this doctor for a certificate to state that he was unfit for work until retirement became due. Any doctor who takes his oath so lightly that he would sign surely deserves the scorn of the public. 
This brings up the subject of sickies generally, and particularly those on Fridays and Mondays. Doctors have a lot to answer for here. Doctors indirectly add another cost to the national health bill when they opt for the big city life. Their failure to fill the country positions means we have to accept migrant doctors. They stay in the country area for a year or so and then head for the cities, where they set their shingle. To earn money they have three consultations rather than one to treat a simple cold. I would suggest that graduating doctors be required to do some time in the country as part of their education. 
There is another area of concern which could push costs up again. In America there has been a continuing increase in litigation against doctors for bad practice. We in Australia have just started to see the award of vast sums of money in other areas, but this type of law case in medicine is still rare in Australia; and perhaps in our type of common law it cannot eventuate. In America it has had two marked effects. It has required doctors to take out large insurances and this, of course, has been passed on in fees. It has also meant much more of what could be described as defensive medicine- more tests, more referrals and therefore more costs. It has also led to doctors refusing to treat some patients and some medical conditions. It has been known for many years that there are large differences in the rates of surgical operations between nations, and between different regions of the same country. The health of communities which are deprived of high rates of surgical intervention seems to suffer little, if at all; that is, some unnecessary surgery is performed, though to what extent is hard to establish. There are many factors which seem to contribute to this- differences in method of payment for medical care, variation in medical convention wisdom, availability of beds and surgeons, incidence of disease or accidents, presence or absence of peer review. It is not a happy picture at all. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  announced recently the establishment of a Medical Services Review Tribunal to review determinations of the Medical Services Committee of Inquiry, with regard to excessive services to their patients. I back the Minister for Health when he says he has no sympathy for those doctors who are using their professional position of trust to bleed the system at the expense of the patients, contributors to health funds and the taxpayers. I am not suggesting another inquiry into doctors fees; that has been done recently, even though it was not as complete as it might have been had the AMA disclosed what doctors' incomes really are. I am not even suggesting that doctors should be made employees of the State as teachers are. But I am suggesting peer review, and I back the Minister for Health in urging the medical profession to support the AMA in its efforts to introduce peer review. It is now three years since he challenged the medical profession to introduce widespread systems of peer review. Since then the Government has made $ 1 50,000 available to the AMA for this purpose and has also spent a further $800,000 on other research studies. It is hoped that these sums of money lead to an early resolution, because the alternative to the development of systems of peer review, by those concerned, with the actual provision of care, could be the introduction of some external method of quality control. 
So that I cannot be accused of looking for scape-goats or placing the blame unfairly, I intend to find out the extent of the problem and I invite all citizens to write to me, Roger Johnston, Member for Hotham,  el-  Parliament House, Canberra, with their complaints with regard to doctors' fees, abuses of charging insurance schemes, the service given by doctors and about plain bad practice. I hope we find it is only a few criminal doctors who are giving the profession a bad name and causing the backlash against them. In the meanwhile I remind people that the medical profession, however revered, is only another service industry. You can question them about the fees they charge, about their judgment, and you can take your business elsewhere. To the doctors I say: 'Look to yourselves, your profession and see what is required. Then do something about it. For if you do not the Government must and will.' 
The Snowy Mountains scheme is a dual purpose hydro-electric and irrigation complex and is one of the largest engineering complexes of its type in the world. The scheme was designed and constructed by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, which is controlled by the Snowy Mountains Council. While the Council was established in January 1959, it was planned many  years  previously. The Council consists of eight members- the  chairman  and  deputy chairman,  who are appointed by the Commonwealth Government; two representatives who are appointed by the Government of New South Wales; two representatives who are appointed by the Government of Victoria; the Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority, and one other member appointed from the Authority. 
Of course, there are the usual financial statements and reports by the Auditor-General, and some interesting facts come out of them. The Authority's costs of production, which comprise interest charges, depreciation, and costs of operation and maintenance, are met by the Commonwealth and the electricity commissions of New South Wales and Victoria, but in proportions related to their entitlements to the estimated average annual net production of electrical energy from the scheme. It is interesting to note that the unit cost of electricity is lower this year than last year. In fact, this year the cost is 0.23 cents per kilowatt hour as against the cost last year of 0.25 cents per kilowatt hour. This is actually due to the increased output that was gained during the year. It is also interesting to note that the total number of people employed is 689 of whom 40 come from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales and 23 from the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. 
As was mentioned earlier, the purpose of this Bill is to amend the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Power Act 1949 and to broaden the borrowing powers of the Authority. Clauses 3, 6, 7 and 9 delete all the definitions and references to temporary officers. This provision is covered in clause 8 which repeals sections 22, 22A and 23 of the original Act and deletes all references to temporary officers and temporary and casual employees. It reflects the current practices of the Authority and of other relevant statutory authority legislation relating to employment. It also provides for the necessary transitional provisions. Clauses 4 and 5 remove some of the powers of the Governor-General and transfer them to the Minister- in particular, the remuneration of the Commissioner and each Associate Commissioner and the appointing of a person to act in the office of Commissioner or Associate Commissioner if required. 
The main part of this Bill concerns the finances of the Authority. Sections 25 to 29 inclusive, of the principal Act, are repealed and other clauses are included. In particular, the Bill allows for the borrowing of funds from the Commonwealth and outside the Commonwealth. It broadens the powers of the Authority and enables the Treasurer to guarantee such borrowings, including borrowings evidenced by the issue of securities. It was also mentioned that the contracts requiring the Minister's approval have now been extended from the limit of $200,000 to $500,000 to allow for inflation. This Bill, in effect, brings the Authority up to date with modern legislation. 
It should be noted that the cost of electricity produced by the Snowy Mountains scheme is extremely low by any standards and is much lower than the cost of power produced elsewhere in the world from natural gas and coal. Its cost is lower than the cost of power produced by nuclear power stations which is now the world preferred system because of its cheapness and safety. Unfortunately, there are few further sites for the harnessing of hydro power in Australia and none with the extra advantage of re-using the water for irrigation in areas that need it so badly. Australia is proud of its Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme and will be pleased to see the bringing up-to-date of the Act which governs its operation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
