asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Does the Department of the Interior require annually the full payment of rates and taxes in respect of homes owned and occupied by pensioners residing within the boundaries of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Has any consideration been given to adopting the practice of some State undertakings and municipalities of allowing such rates and taxes to stand as an accumulated charge against the property on the death of the pensioner owner. 
On behalf of the Public Accounts Committee I present the Committee's one hundred and fifteenth Report. I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 

In recent years your Committee has conducted a series of combined inquiries relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer and expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund but has reported separately on both aspects of these inquiries. The 115th report relates specifically to evidence taken by your 7th Committee concerning expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer in 1968-69. Notwithstanding marked improvements that occurred in the general quality of submissions tendered by departments, the inquiry conducted last year revealed instances of inadequate submissions having been made. Attention has been drawn to these where they have arisen. 
The evidence taken relating to telegram and telephone services, particularly in buildings involving multi-occupancy, justifies the further action taken by the Department of the Treasury in 1968 in requesting departments to analyse their telephone accounts with a view to isolating the factors that have contributed to increased allocations for telephone purposes. Your Committee is concerned also at evidence tendered to the effect that the Department of the Interior is unable to assess the dates on which telephone accounts will be received. In this regard we would invite attention to paragraph 114 of our 84th report. We believe that any department confronted with that difficulty should discuss its problems with the Postmaster-General's Department with a view to, obtaining accounts on a regular basis acceptable to both departments. The evidence reflects also a need for the departments which are required to pay electricity accounts to ascertain from the electricity authorities concerned the cyclical arrangements that are required in the issuing of electricity accounts to assist them with their reviews of expenditure and the formulation of their estimates. 
Arising from the evidence relating to the acquisition of a site in north Queensland for the Department of National Development, your Committee has expressed the view that where the Department of the Treasury has approved the inclusion of a project in the acquisition programme pending additional estimates, it should obtain from the Department of the Interior a report on the status of the project for consideration when the additional estimates are being framed. We further believe that the principle involved in this case has a wider application. As in previous inquiries of this type the evidence has shown continued misunderstandings that arise in administrative operations. We believe that the departments must at all times be vigilant to ensure that human errors of this type and the consequences which arise from them are kept to a minimum. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I should like to be associated with this motion of condolence to the widow and family of the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes. He was a truly great man. Mention has been made of the contributions he made as a scholar, a poet, a soldier and a parliamentarian. But, if anyone were to ask me, as one who knew him for many years, where and when he made his greatest contribution, I would certainly say that it was during the years of the depression. 
At that time, when events were burning themselves into the brains of those who were experiencing hardship as a result of the depression and when men were out of work, women were worried and children were hungry,  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes was in charge of State relief. He was enlisting the support of the Government and voluntary organisations. All people who were imbued with the idea There but for the grace of God go I' in those days were being thrown into some type of association in order to help in whatever way they could. No effort was too great; and no request too insignificant. But through it all shone the compassion of Billy Kent Hughes, as he was known then.  His  task of administering State relief to so many people was not an easy one, but he carried it out in a manner that was typical of the man. He gave sympathy but at no time did he attempt to patronise those who were in difficulties. So although he will be known for many things, that period in our history was one that ensured for Billy Kent Hughes an abiding place in the memory of the people who worked with him and who went through those difficult years. 
He was a great family man. Possibly his appreciation of the problems of other people, which was gained so early in his life, helped him during his years as a prisoner of war and enabled him, with that determination that marked everything that he did, to endure and to return to the family whom he loved and who loved him so much. I have many memories of  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes and therefore I would like to support the motion. 
On behalf of the Public 
Accounts Committee I present the One Hundred and Twentieth and One Hundred and Twenty-first reports of the Committee.  Mr President,  I seek leave to make a short statement. 
On behalf of the Public Accounts Committee I present the One Hundred and Twenty-third Report. With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate in Hansard a statement on the report. 
As honourable senators will be aware, your Committee has, in recent years, conducted combined inquiries relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer and expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund but has tabled separate reports on both aspects of these inquiries. The one hundred and twentythird report relates specifically to evidence taken by your Committee in connection with expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer in 1969-70. The evidence taken in this inquiry shows cases where, in the opinion of your Committee, departments have been justified in drawing on the Advance to the Treasurer to finance unforeseen expenditure late in the financial year. However, the evidence also shows other cases where clerical errors, lack of adequate communication within the administration and misunderstandings between some departments and their clients have affected expenditure adversely. These factors, together with requests made prematurely,- in some cases, for funds from the Advance to the Treasurer, have resulted in significant proportions of the funds sought from the Advance remaining unspent. The detection by your Committee of these cases has been assisted substantially by the proforma developed in 1966 for the guidance of departments in the preparation of evidence. 
While defects discovered in administrative arrangements have been drawn to the attention of the departments concerned, throughout the report there are some matters to which specific attention should be drawn. As the report shows, there is a need for the basis of practices connected with letters of credit associated with overseas purchases  to be examined by the Department of. the Treasury and by other departments and authorities concerned. On several occasions in recent years your Committee has encountered the problems, including staffing losses, that confront departments when transferring their administrations to Canberra. Your Committee believes that a clear responsibility rests with the permanent heads of such departments to recognise the problems that can arise and to ensure that they are minimised in the interests of efficient administration. The evidence shows that departments that provide computer services for other departments and statutory authorities should ensure that adequate training is provided for the staffs of such departments and authorities in the interpretation of output data from computers. Other evidence tendered in our inquiry shows a need for departments to act in such a manner that their image and that of the Public Service generally is protected from public criticism. 
Finally your Committee would draw attention to factually conflicting information tendered by a department in its submission and by its witness in evidence. Your Committee has taken this matter up direct with the department concerned. On the broader issue of the general quality of evidence submitted during inquiries, and to which reference has been made in previous reports, your Committee notes with satisfaction that on 16th October the Secretary to the Treasury issued a circular to all permanent heads indicating the need for witnesses to be properly briefed and for evidence tendered to be of the highest quality. 
I commend the report to honourable senators. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
On behalf of the Public Accounts Committee, [ present the one hundred and twenty-fourth report. With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate in Hansard a statement on the report. 
Honourable senators will recall that yesterday I tabled the one hundred and twenty-third report, which relates to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer 1969-70. The one hundred and twentyfourth report relates to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue fund for that year and covers the remainder of the items included in your Committee's examination of the expenditure results of departments. As both reports stem from the same inquiry, many of the observations made by your Committee in its one hundred and twentythird report apply equally to the items included in the report that I am presenting today. 
In its previous reports relating to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue fund your Committee has emphasised that the overprovision of funds for a department is undesirable, misleading and perhaps unfair to other departments whose financial needs might not have been met fully as a consequence. For this reason your Committee has outlined, in several of its reports, the principles relating to estimating that have been formulated by the Department of the Treasury and endorsed by your Committee. The evidence taken in respect of the financial year 1969-70 has again reflected the need for these principles to be restated and they are included in chapter 1 1. of the report for the guidance of departments and others concerned. Successful financial management, however, depends not only on the realistic formulation of estimates but also on efficient administration throughout the financial year. In this regard evidence tendered during our inquiry has revealed cases of administrative weakness which we believe require early attention. Your Committee would emphasise that in its inquiries into the estimates and related expenditure it must continue to highlight these shortcomings whenever and wherever they occur. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
On behalf of the Public Accounts Committee I present the one hundred and twenty-fifth and one hundred and twentysixth reports of the Committee and with the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my remarks on those reports in Hansard. 
The One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Report relates to an index of the first to the one hundred and fourteenth reports of the Committee and encompasses the work of your first 7 Committees' up to September 1969. By 1958, the numerous inquiries directed to your Committee from time to time by members of the Parliament, by departments and by other organisations and persons both in Australia and overseas, as well as the requirements of the office of the Committee and the members themselves, had demonstrated the need for ready means of reference to the reports of your Committee and the topics discussed. To meet that situation your third Committee decided in 1957 to have an index prepared and to present it to the Parliament in a form similar to that in which our ordinary reports have been published. The first such report, being the Thirty-eighth Report, was tabled in the ' Parliament in May 1958. 
The need for this type of report has continued over the years both in response to growing inquiries regarding our work and as a consequence of the expansion of our work. This need has been recognised by successive Committees and index reports have been presented to the Parliament in 1959, 1962, 1965 and 1967. 
In the case of the One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Report, your eighth Committee has included for the first time, a list of those reports presented since April 1970 but some of which, due .to normal printing delays, are not yet available for inclusion in the report in complete indexed form. 
The One Hundred and Twenty-sixth Report relates to the Treasury Minute on the Committee's One Hundred and Seventh Report concerning subscriber trunk dialling facilities. 
In examining the Treasury Minute your Committee has given particular attention to the report of an Interdepartmental Committee established to examine the problems associated with the control of STD telephone facilities within the Commonwealth Public Service. A copy of the report of that Committee was tendered to us as an annexure to the Treasury Minute. 
From our examination of the report we are disappointed to find that departments were generally unable to provide adequate reasons for increased expenditure on metered calls. We were further disappointed that the Interdepartmental Committee has concluded that it is impossible for it to reach any firm opinion on the extent to which the increased expenditure represented wasteful or unauthorised use of the facility. 
However, we note in connection with multi-occupancy buildings, the Interdepartmental Committee's view that a policy of separate metering should be adopted to enable departments to exercise proper financial control, and that the additional cost of separate meters and additional exchange lines would be fully justified. Your Committee agrees with this recommendation and hopes that separate metering facilities will be installed in those buildings with minimum delay. Your Committee also trusts that the added financial control accorded departments following the introduction of such facilities will assist them in the preparation of estimates of expenditure and will also assist in the provision of adequate reasons for future variations in their telephone costs. 
We note that at the request of the Interdepartmental Committee the Public Service Board conducted an investigation in 1969 of the relative cost of obtaining information by means of memoranda, Telex facilities and STD because of the lapse of time since that examination and with consequent rises in costs, a re-examination of the original investigation was made by the Public Service Board in July 1970 for the Interdepartmental Committee. In view of the evident need to reassess the relative costs of these forms of communication within such a short period of time, your Committee believes that, for the guidance of departments, the Public Service Board should make regular .assessments to take account of future variations, in costs. 
In examining the model instructions on the use of telephones -prepared by the Interdepartmental Committee and circulated with its report to all permanent heads we have noted that the circular provides for private telephone calls to be made only with the prior approval of the supervisor. This we support. We are disturbed, however, by the statement included in these model instructions that disciplinary action may be taken against any staff member found making, private calls without approval. Your Committee believes that where a staff member , is found to be making private calls without approval, disciplinary action should be . taken and the model instructions be' amended accordingly. 
We would also observe that from its nature, the report of the Interdepartmental Committee suggests that the Committee has issued a final report and thai no further work on its part is contemplated. In view of the proposals for greater control of telephone facilities put forward by that Committee and the fact that the installation of separate metering facilities in multi-occupancy buildings is expected to enable the departments concerned to exercise proper financial control, your Committee believes that the ' Interdepartmental Committee should continue in existence and should undertake periodic follow-up surveys of the matters within its terms of reference. 
Your Public Accounts Committee intends to maintain a close and continuing interest in this important ' area of financial administration within the Commonwealth Public Service. 
I commend the reports to honourable senators. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
 Mr President,  on behalf of the Public Accounts Committee 1 present the One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Report. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate the following statement in Hansard: 
The One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Report relates to the report of the AuditorGeneral for the financial year 1969-70. Your Committee would congratulate the Auditor-General and his staff for their sustained effort over many years to present the report to Parliament during August. The tabling of the report at that time each year has assisted your Committee greatly in this very important area of its work. 
The matters examined publicly in this inquiry related to fires that occurred in 1969 at the Lyneham Primary School in Canberra and at the Wool Stores at Botany, New South Wales; a fraud perpetrated in the Lithgow office of the Department of Social Services and the construction of towers and ancillary works for the Department of the Navy at Port Wakefield, South Australia. 
The evidence relating to the fire at the Lyneham Primary School shows a strong need for the problem of classification of all schools in the Australian Capital Territory as special purpose buildings to be resolved without delay by the Department of the Interior in consultation with the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Education and Science. We also believe that, in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Direction 32/53, the Department of the Interior has been in error in failing to maintain appropriate details relating to these schools on its assets register. While it is clear that thermal fire alarm systems are currently being installed in primary schools in the Territory we believe that this action could well have been taken sooner. We also believe that, as a matter of urgency, the Department of Education and Science must continue to pursue its investigations into burglar alarm systems for all government owned schools in the Territory. 
The evidence taken in relation to the fire at the Wool Stores at Botany shows that the stores, which were built early in World War II to meet wartime needs constitute a high fire danger. Your Committee believes that appropriate action to provide adequate fire protection and to redevelop the stores in line with current needs should have been taken by the responsible authorities as soon as it became apparent that the stores would be required to meet long term postwar needs. Your Committee also believes that in view of the fire risks involved at the stores, the Australian Wool Board's lease and tenancy agreements should have been examined critically and amended several years ago and that the Board's third party insurance cover, which has been amended recently, should be kept under regular and frequent surveillance. 
Regarding the fraud that occurred at the Lithgow office of the Department of Social Services the evidence shows that a number of weaknesses existed in the administration of that office during the period in which the fraud was perpetrated. In particular we were disturbed to learn that the programme of the regional office inspector for New South Wales was not designed, at that time, to detect fraud. 
In relation to the ammunition testing facility for the Department of the Navy at Port Wakefield it appears from the evidence that the structure required was unusual in nature but was similar to facilities previously constructed in Britain and the United States of America. Your Committee believes that the Department of Works should have investigated these overseas structures fully during the planning and design stages of the Australian facility. Such an investigation may well have obviated many of the problems that arose later during the construction of the project. Much of the evidence tendered suggests that the Department of Works was ill equipped, at that time, to meet the problems that were encountered. Your Committee would commend that Department for the introduction of new policies and procedures designed to overcome problems of the type manifested in the Port Wakefield project, but believes that these developments should have been introduced sooner. 
Your Committee has noted the growth that has occurred in the volume, variety and complexity of the audit function over the past 10 years and the continuing action taken by the Auditor-General in relation to his organisation and staffing tq meet these developments effectively. Due to the introduction of refined auditing techniques and the use by the Auditor-General of his discretionary authority to dispense with detailed audits under the provisions of the 
Audit Act, the growth pattern in the audit function has reflected an increase of only 58 positions on the staff establishment of the Auditor-General's office over this decade. in recording its appreciation of this achievement, your Committee also notes thar, notwithstanding assistance provided by the Public Service Board and organisational changes made to the staff structure of the Auditor-General's office, the past decade has been characterised by a significant loss of trained and experienced audit staff. This has caused difficulties in relation to the maintenance of auditing objectives and procedures and the effective prosecution of. the audit programme. We believe that the importance of the audit function in the interests of the Parliament, the administration of the Government and the effective operation of your Committee under the Public Accounts Committee Act cannot be overemphasised. Having regard to the experiences of the Auditor-General over the past 10 years and the fact that further expansion in the scope and complexity of the audit function is in prospect, your Committee believes that the resources available to the Auditor-General must be maintained at a level and quality which will enable that function to be discharged adequately and confidently. 
Your Committee has been disturbed for some lime by the fact that the status of the Auditor-General is currently below that of a number of First Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. Your Committee believes that, in view of the importance of the audit function and its continuing growth and complexity, this situation places the Auditor-General at an organisational disadvantage in the exercise of his onerous responsibilities. Accordingly, we believe that, as a matter of principle, the status of the Auditor-General should be reviewed. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I should like to thank all those who have spoken today- the Leaders of the different parties and other honourable senators - for their references to myself and also to all of my colleagues who are leaving the Senate. 1 should like,  Mr President,  to add to what has been said about yourself because I believe that not only have you established a record in this Parliament and one that history may never better but also you have established for yourself overseas a reputation that has not only enhanced your personal reputation but has also done much for Australia. I have had the great privilege of travelling with you and I know how highly you are regarded in parliaments in other countries and amongst people who speak with authority for those countries. 
Looking back over 211 years I feel that my time in the Senate has been a magnificent opportunity for service. All of those who have been privileged to have such an opportunity will always remember it with gratitude. It has also been an occasion for us to establish firm personal friendships with people whose political opinions may be quite different from our own. One of the things which has impressed me over the years, and it was referred to by  Senator Bull,  is the amount of goodwill which exists between members of the Parliament, no matter on which side of the chamber they sit. This is as it should be because, after all, this Parliament serves Australia and the people of Australia and as long as we remember that I feel that the destiny of the Australian people will always be safe. 
In adding to the thanks that go to you,  Mr President,  to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and to all those with whom I have been associated politically, I should like to thank the staff because, as I mentioned the other night at a small party in this building, whilst politicians, parliamentarians or whatever we might like to call them, may come and go, the Public Service and the staff of Parliament House go on. Therefore, it is essential in the interests of the nation that we have men and women of integrity, dedicated to their jobs, and I believe that we have such people in this Senate. I should also like to thank members of the Hansard Staff because, like every other member of the Parliament, I have benefited greatly from their expertise. I hope that they will go on reporting future members with the same degree of kindness and clarity with which they have reported those who are retiring. 
In conclusion, I should like to thank  Senator Reg  Wright for his reference to my spouse. I believe that no parliamentarian is able to do his or her work properly without the support of either a good woman or a good man and I have been extremely fortunate in that I, like  Senator Kennelly,  have had the devoted support of my spouse during my years in the Parliament. I do not regard this as a farewell at all. I feel that those of us who are going out will hope to continue our work for Australia and for the people of Australia in one way or another. We will not be sitting in these seats, we will not be making speeches in this place, but I hope that our interest in the work we have done and any of the benefits that may flow in the future from this place always will be our concern so that, as  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin said, we will be linked with you always in our wishes for the people as a whole. I thank both the retiring senators and those who will be carrying on here, and hope that the friendships we have made will last eternally. Thank you very much. 
 Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
