Is the Prime Minister aware of the indifferent standard of coffee that is generally served in the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms? Will he take steps to import quantities of Tolai grown coffee from Rabaul, recently praised so highly by the Leader of the Opposition when he was in that area? 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is making an awful fuss about nothing. There is no doubt in my mind that the rate of interest has already been set for the current term of the loan. 1 presume, therefore, that what the honourable member is saying is that he does not want the Government to look at this aspect in the future if conditions alter and interest rates fall. The whole situation of the wheat industry might alter. I do not see that the honourable member has any reason to suppose that there should be a setting of the conditions for the future. For all he knows the situation of the wheat industry might well require that interest rates be lowered. Why does he want the Government to commit itself for the future on this aspect? It should be obvious to all honourable members that the conditions on which interest rates are based may alter. No one would deny that. No one would deny that the state of the industry might change for the better or for the worse and there is no reason to suppose that at the time of those changes governors of banks should not review interest rates. 
I cannot quite understand why the honourable member is kicking up a fuss about such an infantile matter at present. The conditions of the loan are set. 1 cannot understand why he wants to know now what governments of the future may or may not think about interest rates. I would ask the Committee to take little notice of this request for forecasting, for crystal ball gazing, about the interest rate. This is not necessarily a matter that the industry should worry about at present. 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware that some sections of the Campaign for Peace in Vietnam movement are unhappy at being handed over to the organisation of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. Is the Minister aware that 4 members of the Campaign for Peace in Vietnam general committee in South Australia, responsible for founding that movement in that State, have resigned from the general committee of the movement because, to quote them, the Moratorium Campaign 'can be neither predicted nor controlled'? Can the Minister inform the House how many Opposition members have declared themselves in support of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign - a body looked on as irresponsible by some committee members of the Campaign for Peace in Vietnam movement? 
I will not delay the Committee for long. I apologise for the fact that latterly this seems to have become a South Australian debate, but it is an important topic and I must speak because of the references to Miss Doris Taylor, M.B.E. I will also try to be as nonpolitical as the chameleon from Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the reformed character the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  or, indeed, the blockbuster from Sturt  (Mr Foster)  because it is important that I should endorse the remarks made sincerely by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I thought it was a good thing that he spoke as he did because earlier in the debate, except for what the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  had said, the opportunity was missed to pay tribute to Miss Doris Taylor. 

 Mr Chairman, I am addressing my remarks to clause 4, as a general provision, and perhaps the Committee will forgive me if I mention that South Australia has had an inspiring record in relation to Meals on Wheels through the activities of this one woman. South Australia has a far better record indeed than any other State. I will not repeat this again, but 322 meals per 1,000 of population are provided and this is, as somebody else said  -  I think it is my friend from Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who sits beside me - nearly double the number of meals served in any other State. 
There must be, I imagine, a reason for this. One reason that has been put forward is that we had an inspiring woman who dedicated her life to doing this sort of thing. 
But there are dedicated people elsewhere. I think that it is no chance that these figures do come from South Australia. I suggest to the Committee that Miss Doris Taylor was working on fairly fertile ground. I will not develop the political history of South Australia or the consequences of 25 years of Liberal rule as against Labor rule. I take my point from the honourable member for Hindmarsh who tried very hard to be nonpolitical at this time. 
The fact is that this is not an isolated case. I instance the work of the former member for Sturt,  Mr Ian  Wilson, and the work of his father,  Sir Keith  Wilson, a member for Sturt in years gone by. We find that in South Australia 9.4% of the population is claiming approximately 30% of the total Commonwealth subsidies for homes for the aged. So, I think that a reason must exist for this state of affairs. I suggest seriously to the Committee that what is needed is a combination of people who want to help in an area with the catalyst a person of determination and dedication to work on this fertile ground. Indeed, there is no corollary in South Australia as regards the need for these services, because I do not believe, frankly, that there is the need there that there is in one or two other sections of the Commonwealth. 
I thank you,  Mr Chairman,  for allowing me to make those brief and general remarks in Committee. I congratulate the Minister for Social Services also and I hope that he continues his enlightened, dedicated work, small in total cash volume but large in spirit and in heart. If we stop to think - some honourable members opposite have not stopped to think tonight - of the overall budget of $ 1,450m for social services, we should not confuse this with the smaller amount available for this specific purpose under consideration. I make that minor correction, I hope with respect, to one or two honourable members who rather created the opposite impression during the course of this Committee debate. 
Perhaps I might very briefly disagree with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who was my colleague on the Foreign Affairs Committee of the last Parliament and who indeed was my colleague on the subcommittee that produced the report on the Middle East situation. I think it is as well for the House to remember that it took many years for the Australian Labor Party to agree to join this Committee, and the debate over that period of time hinged around what material should be confidential and how it would be treated if it were given to the Committee. If my memory serves me rightly, the attitude of caucus at that time was that one could read a lot of information given to this Committee in the Press and that, if it were given on a confidential basis to the Committee why was there a degree of secrecy about it at all? 
It was only in the last Parliament, I am sure to the great gratification of many people both inside and outside this House, that the Opposition joined the Foreign Affairs Committee and for the first time we did not have what was fairly generally termed the first 1 1 and the second 1 1 from this side of the House. What a sterile situation this was when the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs became the first 1 1 and the second 1 1 from one side of the House only. Last year, under the chairmanship of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, that Committee got away in its infancy to a very great start. Not the only reason for this was the fact that the members of that Committee were under no pressure from outside sources. We met and swapped views. We were not subjected to someone looking over our shoulder and saying: 'I would not like him to know I was agreeing with the Labor Party on this', or vice versa. 
I am still on the historical lead-up. I apologise to the honourable member for Fremantle. I am leading up to the point that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle is aimed at adding to paragraph (1) the following words:  and to report to the Parliament on such matters as are referred to it by either House of the Parliament. 
The Foreign Affairs Committee is in an early stage, and at this point of time there are several new members on the Committee. There is some consistency in the membership, but it is not very great on our side. A sure way to finish or at least to damage this Committee is to allow it to be made a political tool in any shape or form. I suppose that various honourable members opposite will be thinking that there must be a resolution by one House or the other before a matter can be referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee which would then, according to the terms of the amendment, report back to the Parliament. I do not think that is the complete answer. I will not always perhaps be on this side of the House, and I would not like to be on the other side of the House and have the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  with the weight of numbers behind him, for instance stating that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs should look at some matter that was highly charged politically. If one wanted to finish this Committee that is the way to do it. 
I acknowledge the breadth and perhaps the future value in years to come of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle. Nevertheless 1 do not regard it as an amendment that this House should take seriously at this point of time. It is a very new Committee in many ways. It is a Committee that to my mind has very great value, and I would not like to see it put to pressures that were unnecessary. 
1 will not keep the Committee one moment. I just want to reply to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  who suggested that his farmers are in trouble due to the fact that there is an assessment in river flow that takes into account, so he says, that Chowilla is built. Either he is right or he is wrong on this. If he is right in his contention surely it means quite clearly that he, in spite of the illogicality of his reason, realises that when Dartmouth is completed New South Wales will be better off. It is true that New South Wales will be better off, but it will not be so much better off as South Australia. I am very glad to see that the honourable member for Riverina agrees with that line of reasoning. 
The second point I want to make is this: The Menindee Lakes are not in South Australia and therefore I do not carry the exact figures in my head in relation to the storage. The Menindee Lakes are in the honourable member's State and the honourable member should know the answers as to the increased benefits given to New South Wales due to the fact that the Menindee Lakes have been taken over in perpetuity under the control of the River Murray Commission but still under the ownership of New South Wales. New South Wales receives a benefit from the point of view of rent and also has a benefit given to it in substitution water because of the use of Menindee Lakes in the total main stream yield of the River Murray system. I would have expected the honourable member to realise that. 
I make it plain at the commencement of my speech that I support the 2 Bills that are being debated together and intend to vote against the Opposition amendment that I know of so far. Of course I would be interested to see what further amendments they can pluck out at the Committee stage, because up to this point of time I cannot see an awful lot of success in what they have done so far. Both the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  have referred - and this is only a small1 point - to the Government's deferring the building of the Chowilla dam. Let us start off correctly from the word 'go' and say that the River Murray Commission deferred the building of Chowilla dam. This Commission has 4 commissioners, one from each State, and it can make no decision unless it is unanimous. 
The honourable member for Hawker, if I can briefly deal with the next point, said that computer studies on both dams need to be undertaken. That of course is quite wrong, as the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  already explained before dinner. These studies have taken place. I had a look at them last week in Adelaide, and I have had a look at them again tonight. These studies have taken place. It is quite apparent that if both Chowilla and Dartmouth are built the increase in yield to the River Murray system will be 200,000 or more acre feet a year. This compares with an increase in yield to the river system of 1.1 million acre feet a year if Dartmouth alone is built, lt is a small increase, and I will elaborate on that point in a few minutes' time. I suppose the next thing I should do is to try to pick up the points made by the honourable member for Dawson. In so doing I would say there is one section of his speech to which I need not refer, and that is the section on costs, because I thought his memory of the graphs, as I remember them, was exact and in accordance with the facts. So I will exclude costs completely from the rest of my remarks. One point he made was that a cost benefit analysis should be done in relation to the Murray system. I would like to reply to this because it seems to me that any cost benefit analysis is usually carried out to see what benefit can be gained from such irrigation waters in terms of irrigation or other similar schemes downstream. In the case of Dartmouth and in the case of Chowilla the water woul'd flow into an already established system. It is expected that in my State of South Australia there will be no increase in plantings for irrigation. I will touch on this matter a little while later when I get on to the individual flow requirements for that State year by year. 
The honourable member for Dawson seemed to me to make a very 'iffy* approach. He said that if this or if that could be done possibly something else could occur. In other words, it was a hypothetical speech in an attempt to get his own Party off a very difficult hook. The River Murray Waters Agreement has so far been ratified by 2 States, New South Wales and Victoria. My understanding is that the Labor Party in both those States supported the Government that introduced this measure which was supported in both Houses. 
The honourable member for Dawson also said that a river authority should be set up to control the Murray-Darling system and he said that this authority should be properly staffed. Does he think that the River Murray Commission is improperly staffed7 Does he think that the Snowy Mountains Authority, which has done a lot of work on Dartmouth, is improperly staffed? What about the consultants, both Australian and international? Do they not have competent people on their staffs? I would have hoped that the Labor Party, which likes to feel that it has a new look in the eyes of the community, would have been capable of seeing the need in the community in years to come of coming to a courageous decision every now and again when it was the correct one instead of making a cheap emotional appeal based on political expediency. I would have hoped that people wth some competence and training on the Opposition benches would reveal a slightly more intelligent and valid approach to the problems than the comments I have heard today. 
The honourable member may talk about Red bogies. He knows something about them. I know very little about them. The South Australian situation is unfortunate. I can point to instance after instance when the Opposition and one other member in South Australia have resorted to complete political expediency based on no facts and no difference of opinion. I suggest therefore- 
I suggest that the honourable member talk to his gullible wharf labourers. He can do that easily, but this House is a difficult school. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I ask honourable members to cease interjecting. I ask the honourable member for Angas not to be so provocative. 
 I appreciate that this is almost my maiden speech and I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the protection that you offer me. The honourable member for Dawson asked why we do not make further studies to include the Chowilla dam to be built after Dartmouth. I think I have partially answered that. The answer is that these studies have occurred. 
In 1961, if I may correct the honourable member, but we will ignore that for the time being. There is a lot more to it than the fact that yield studies have been made. For instance the river yield under the Dartmouth scheme would be between 3 and 5 times as great as it would be with Chowilla. This is not a small quantity of water. Presently I will explain how South Australia would benefit in a peculiar and great fashion from this state of affairs. ButI point out to the House that South Australia's average divertible water prior to the 1967 drought was 337,000 acre feet. During the drought South Australia received 500,000 acre feet. It is a fact that during droughts more water is needed because of higher temperatures and other factors. With the establishment of Dartmouth, South Australia would get 900,000 acre feet or nearly 3 times as much as its average divertible water prior to 1967 and nearly twice as much as it needed during the last drought season of 1967. 
From 1915 until 1970 the quota of water for South Australia was 1.254 million acre feet. That quota has not been altered, but with the adoption of this agreement South Australia's quota would increase to 1.5 million acre feet. The honourable member for Hawker contended that it would be a good idea to build the Chowilla dam after Dartmouth or at the same time, but the answer to that question bears on 2 factors. First, there is a minimal increase in the river yield and, secondly, South Australias entitlement has just been increased to 1.5 million acre feet. In these circumstances it is unlikely that South Australia's quota would be increased again if Chowilla were built. 
I ask the honourable member to listen for a while. Even if Chowilla is built now the benefit will not go to South Australia, which will still have an entitlement of 1.5 million acre feet, but to the 2 upstream States. This would be the position if the 2 projects were built simultaneously. South Australia's quota has just been raised remarkably to 1.5 million acre feet. I hope that a study of the facts will persuade members opposite that what I am saying is completely accurate. Naturally I hope that the time will come when, with extra diversions upstream, the Chowilla dam will be built - and in my electorate. But when this happens it will be because South Australia's quota of l.S million acre feet is in jeopardy. Then I expect that a case will be made for the Chowilla dam to be built to protect that quota. Any intelligent person who has had an opportunity to look at the computer graphs will realise that to build Chowilla now would be an unnecessary expenditure because it would only produce slightly more water for the 2 upstream States. 
I have never been so concerned about the waterfront situation as I have been lately. I suggest to the honourable member, who perhaps should be the honourable member for Port Adelaide, that the gods, if they wish to destroy, first make someone mad. This is something that the honourable member has to watch very carefully if he is going to continue putting his great foot in the great mouth that he opens so effectively and with such colossal blustering from time to time. The House waits to see whether one day he will say something worth while. The honourable member for Hawker spoke about the flow factor as being of great importance; so it is. He spoke about the capacities of dams as being of great importance. He spoke of dams the size of Sydney Harbour. He ignored one thing which is important, if people aim to have an understanding of the situation. Let us take as an example Melbourne and Perth. Strangely enough they both have dam capacities of almost identical size. The capacity of the dams in Perth and Melbourne is approximately the same yet one lot of dams feeds a city 5 times the size of the other. Why? It is because the dams in Victoria are among the highest yielding dams in the Southern Hemisphere and the dams in Perth are low yielding dams. Let us apply this to some of the instances we have heard discussed tonight. 
The Hume Dam has been criticised. The fact is that it frequently yields considerably more than its capacity, yet people blithely talk about it not filling, Dartmouth Dam not filling and our not being able to get water. 1 repeat that the important thing is the yield of these dams. In the last 14 years the Hume Dam filled factually 8 times. It would have filled twice more except that the flow was let out while construction went on to enlarge its wall and its capacity. I stress that up to twice the capacity of the Hume Dam is released or flows over it almost annually. It is not like a dam that is situated in the middle of a desert and which has no intake capacity. The important thing in studying the Murray and Darling river systems is to appreciate yields. The (low requirement below the Chowilla dam, if it were built, would be 770 cusecs for dilution water quite apart from water required for diversion. So somewhere around a capacity of 1,000 cusecs would be needed. To suggest, as the honourable member for Hawker did, that because periodically a big river comes down the Murray it should be trapped and will therefore yield in a series of drought years is frankly an infantile line of thought. For instance, during the years 1937 to 1946, speaking from memory, if Chowilla had been built it would have filled at its large size - in excess of 5 million acre feet - for only 2 months of those 10 years. People forget to look at yield in relation to the flow required downstream from such a dam. Eucumbene was another dam criticised tonight because it never filled. Eucumbene is constructed never quite to overflow. There is an economic loss if Eucumbene overflows. It is there to generate electricity, and water is put through Eucumbene from time to time to supply demands for water downstream, precisely the same as Hume Reservoir - precisely the same as Dartmouth in its turn. 
I would like now to get on to what I might call, with deference, the 'political implications' of what has been said up to date. Not only did the decision to shelve construction of Chowilla Dam by the River Murray Commission in 1963 take place in the 3 year sojourn of  Mr Dunstan  as Premier of South Australia- 
Did he not last that long? I apologise. Not only that, but so did the setting up of the technical committee to inquire into alternative sites to Chowilla.  Mr Dunstan  now finds fault with the recommendations of the committee in which his commissioner took part. He finds all the faults in the world with the committee in which the South Australian Commissioner took part, and I remind the House that every decision by the River Murray Commission has to be unanimous. This is made very plain when we look at the last two sentences of the letter of intent which the Premier of South Australia compiled in Canberra with the honourable member for Farrar, who was then Minister for National Development, and took to the Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales for agreement. Those sentences read: 
The decision to defer construction of the Chowilla Dam arose from factors not previously established. Current investigations are aimed at an economic plan to sustain the advantages mentioned. 
So nobody can say that at that time the Premier of South Australia had not completely absorbed the full implications of the deferment of Chowilla.  His  own letter of intent states by implication that he looks for the best way out for South Australia. Since then  Mr Dunstan  and his Party in South Australia have consistently tried to find fault with Dartmouth and to play to the emotions of those South Australians who are susceptible to this sort of blandishment by promoting Chowilla as an alternative proposition in spite of the complete lack of fact to back their case. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide will lose his seat to the honourable member for Sturt. I would watch out if I were he. Since that time  Mr Dunstan  and the Australian Labor Party in South Australia have consistently tried to find fault with Dartmouth. This consistent policy has been noticeably avoided now that the Premier has told South Australia in no uncertain fashion that he will go to the people on this issue. What has happened? We have had the usual cartwheel that we have with any party that does not adopt principle but instead adopts pure political sentimentality and slop expediency by way of a policy. What is  Mr Dunstan  now saying?  Mr Dunstan  has shifted his ground completely and obviously. He is now saying not that we need Chowilla. No. Not that Chowilla is better than Dartmouth. No. He is now saying that he will not vote for the Agreement if there is any chance of inability to build Chowilla in the future. What a state of vacillation that is.  His  new-found ground is not even original because I, my Party, th&lt;; present Premier of South Australia and everybody else have been saying the same thing. If this is not a scuttling away from a principle which he has propounded for some time I do not know what is. 
The Federal Opposition must beware that it is not left high and dry by one who so easily vacillates to this extent. The Labor Parties in Victoria and New South Wales have backed these agreements. If I were Premier of South Australia - you will thank goodness,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the sake of the State that I am not - I would go to the people immediately on this issue, because I have never before known a supposedly major Party to back an emotional hotch-potch with no regard whatever for the scientific and hydrological facts of the issue involved. It is a black day for those Labor supporters who felt that at long last the Australian Labor Party could become an up-to-date Party, prepared to show courage for a correct decision. In South Australia at any rate the Party has relegated its position to that of the ill-informed antiquated trade union based concept of another decade. 
The facts, not the opinions, show clearly that South Australia will get 37% more water if Dartmouth is constructed and not Chowilla. The facts show quite clearly that in a period of restriction - this has not been touched on yet - South Australia will not be affected until the 2 upstream States, which have no assured quotas since the first claim on the water is by South Australia, have their average usage cut by more than 30%. In other words, those 2 States will be down to 70% of their average requirements before it is worth their while entering into a period of restriction that might apply to South Australia. This is the best assurance the irrigators, industrialists and other consumers in South Australia have had. I remind the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who, I hope, will have an opportunity to entertain us with his wonderful flow of illogicality, that anyone who votes against this Dartmouth agreement legislation threatens South Australia with a situation in which within a few years it will not have ample water. 
It is not rubbish. If Chowilla were completed now the situation could well be that within a few years- 
Does the honourable member never put a cork in it? The situation could well be that within a few years we will be short of water. When will honourable members realise the saving grace to South Australia of the Dartmouth Dam? We now have an assurance of water. I gave the figures a while ago  -  900,000 acre feet of divertible water. We used 500,000 acre feet in the drought and our average before that was 337,000 acre feet. For the first time in many years South Australia can look forward to an assurance of water in a very real way. May 1 remind the Opposition and those South Australian members who may follow me in this debate that Chowilla was built to take out the periods of restriction - every 20 years or so - at a quota of 1.25 million acre feet? It took them out on all but 4 or 5 occasions over 60 years. Dartmouth Dam backs up that quota from 1.25 million acre feet to 1.5 million acre feet for South Australia and also takes out the odd period of restriction with only one occasion, on computer studies of the last 60 years, when we would have been short, this shortfall is not of our average usage like the two upstream States but of our entitlement, which is the first claim on the River Murray system. 
This is the biggest breakthrough the State of South Australia has had in assuring its water supply since the foundation of the River Murray Commission. I trust that nothing will be allowed to stop the advantage that accrues from this scheme to the State of South Australia. If we lose this advantage we could be in such trouble, depending on seasons, within a few years that the people will remember those who were ignorant enough, stupid enough or misguided enough to dare stop this increased amount of water that South Australia needs. 
I have here a table giving the figures relating to the Dartmouth construction. It is based on the 60 years I have just mentioned. It shows a deficiency in normal usage in Victoria and New South Wales and a deficiency on quota for South Australia. We have first claim on the waters of the Murray. The table contains 3 categories  -  0 to 10% down; 10% to 20% down; and more than 20% down. The table is as follows: 

<graphic href="966131197004083_44_4.jpg"></graphic>

As can be seen, Victoria would have been down once in the minimum category, twice in the middle category and four times in the highest category, on Dartmouth figuring. The pattern for New South Wales would have been the reverse. 
South Australia has first claim and an assured quota and it would be down only once in the last 60 years on the Dartmouth figuring. That once was in 1945-46. Although the figures for the 1967 drought have not been fully computerised as a study, initial work suggests there would be no period of restriction in South Australia on our assured quota at an increased size, even in a drought as bad as that of 1967. These are facts and those who do not take account of them, particuarly those from South Australia, deserve the censure they will eventually get. I finish my remarks by saying that, although I naturally want Chowilla in my electorate, mere wish cannot ensure the proper treatment, a proper flow of water required by the people in my area for irrigation, in South Australia generally and in other Slates. 1 suggest that honourable members, particularly those from my own State, take full cognisance of three points. The State is overcommitted on our old quota of 1,254,000 acre feet. We are committed almost fully to our new quota of 1,500,000 acre feet. If we have an increase in the average consumer usage of water in washing machines, deep freezers or whatever people have in a house, on the one hand, and if on the other hand we need more water for industrial use in South Australia the irrigation systems in that State are to receive an assured quantity of water, the volume of water available to South Australia must be increased Opponents of the scheme had better assess those facts pretty quickly. The issue is quite clear. We either vote for Dartmouth or in the near future we do not have water. There is no middle and no second course. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, also relates to the partial lifting of the merino export ban. ls it a fact that many years ago the Australian Labor Party introduced its ban some hours after a shipment of many thousands of merinos left this country for Russia? Is it a fact that this ban applied to pedigree merinos only and that non-pedigree merinos continued to be shipped for many years afterwards? Is it also a fact that no inspector can tell the difference between zenith, polwarth and other merino-type sheep on export? Finally, is the new tsar of the Labor Party, the ambitious somewhat power hungry  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, behind the infamous action to prohibit delivery of perfectly legal sales? 
 I am glad we have heard that sincere though misguided democrat, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  tell us of some of his beliefs. Some of them are very plausible and some of them, of course, do not bear analysis. I refer, for instance, to his remark about the decent, honest Australian. There are many decent, honest Australians who do not agree with the honourable member for Wills, who do not agree with anything that he stands for and who in fact would have nothing to do with him. I hope he takes that comment in a kindly fashion, because it was meant in that way. I remember that in a previous debate some time ago the Australian Labor Party was under attack. The contention then was that there was too much coincidence in demonstrations being held country by country, State by State and city by city in chronological order. I remember very clearly that the honourable member for Wills rose and completely denied this contention, saying that all the demonstrations in this country were spon taneous demonstrations. He knew very well; he had organised plenty of them. Frankly, at the time this was treated with good humour by the honourable member for Wills who realised that he had put his great foot in his tiny little mouth once again. If he is going to hold himself up as the great democrat, let him be consistent. 
Precisely. I am just as much in favour of the Chowilla Dam being built - in its proper time - as I ever was. I do not know where the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  stands on that issue; he is probably wobbling as the leader of his Party in South Australia is wobbling. The problem with people getting up and posing as great democrats is that they are very rarely consistent. I do not like to mention this, but last Wednesday night we heard the honourable member for Wills dissenting. Many of us have dissented. I seem to remember the former honourable member for Kooyong dissenting and being ordered out of the House at the pleasure of Parliament and the Chair. Many of us have been born and bred on dissent in some way or other. But on Wednesday night we saw the difference between a democrat and one who poses as one. The honourable member could not obey the dictates of Parliament or the dictates of the  Speaker  of this House. Let him be consistent. If he is going to be a democrat he should not be a demagogue. If he is going to pose as a democrat he should be consistent and have some respect for the society in which he lives and for the law. I would not be so stupid as to say that every law I know of receives my entire approval. I can think of the speed limit law with which 1 seem to differ from time to time. We all have our idiosyncrasies. Unless there is a very major issue, a matter of a big minority being down-trodden by an appalling law such as the law of Nazi Germany, it is not proper and reasonable to say to people that they must have no respect for the law and that they should therefore break any law they feel like. 
If we look at places like Dachau, Auschwitz, Belsen, Sachsenhausen and Ravensbruck and visit the memorial to these places in Jerusalem today - because it was mainly Jews who suffered - we can see the prime importance of not allowing ourselves - in certain circumstances - to be down-trodden and deprived of our rights by a law, but I maintain that there is nothing in Australia today which can be remotely compared with the situation in Nazi Germany. The nearest we could get to it, I suppose, is the situation resulting from the National Service Act. This Government has been democratically elected on two occasions. The honourable member for Wills and his cohorts, front, back and inside out, have had every chance to express their opinions on this matter. They have not done so. The nearest they have come by way of an argument is to produce a trend on a graph and project it to a certain month in the future. Then they say: 'Aha! Now the people of Australia are no longer in favour of our connection with the people of South Vietnam in a military fashion.' This is absolute nonsense. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is trying to interject, would not have any idea what he is talking about, and he should get back to his seat before I ask the  Speaker  to name him. 
I suggest that what we need from the honourable member for Wills and from a great many other members of the Australian Labor Party at present is a little bit of sincerity. I would not for one moment question that the honourable member for Sturt has sponsored the Vietnam Moratorium movement but I would question whether some of his colleagues from my own State of South Australia had signed it. Not many days ago I was at a meeting in South Australia where people were curious to know which members of the Labor Party from South Australia, the so-called new look party, had signed or had not. I did not know. I do not follow these things very well. I am not usually concerned with worrying about left-wingers, pro-Corns or Communists - that was until I met the honourable member for Sturt. I am not usually concerned but I regard it as the proper duty of many of the new Labor members to get up and say whether they have signed the sponsorship. There are people in their home States who would like to know. Until this afternoon when I saw the Attorney-General's statement I had not seen a list of those members of the Labor Party who had enough principle to run against the tide, due to their conscientious beliefs, and decline to sign the sponsorship. It was news to me that some had not signed. I am learning quite rapidly about these things, and the honourable member for Sturt is not helping me at all. On the other hand, he does not worry me very much as long as he continues interjecting as he is at present. 
The issue becomes one that is intensely a matter of our own personal beliefs in a democracy, one way or the other. I accept - perhaps others do not, and I could not care less - the principles of free speech in a democratic society, but I am against the use of sincere people for political purposes. I include in the case of school children the use of propaganda photographs of the type just issued by the Moratorium movement. This is one of the most despicable photographs I have even seen. It is of the standard of one or two others that I have seen and it depicts a child - if it is a child - or a woman killed quite probably by the Vietcong, lt follows the usual pattern. When these pictures are produced it is always claimed that the victim was killed by an American or, worse still, by an Australian. It is pretty despicable action for people such as the honourable member to produce these photographs while having no idea of their authenticity. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  could be quite correct in saying that this is the sort of photograph that could be distributed in schools in Australia today to stir up emotional feelings in innocent children. If this is the idea of the Vietnam Moratorium movement, which honourable members opposite support, then it is a pretty low form of tactic indeed. As I have suggested before, I do not know much about these things because I have never worried about studying what trade union secretaries- 
I have studied all right, but I have not studied you. I have not worried about studying which trade union secretaries are Communists and which are not. I am not profoundly interested. What has driven me to my feet tonight is my sheer horror at the alternative government of this nation allowing itself to become associated with Australians of whom we have no particular reason to be proud. This is a crying shame. I will come back to this matter later in my speech. If violence does occur- 
That is a typical remark from the honourable member: 'If in doubt, blame the police.' I have great respect for the police. The police in the honourable member's home State of South Australia are second to none. I hope that he realises it. I hope that his interjection was as flippant as other interjections of his sometimes are, because without protection from a worthwhile, respectable, sincere and decent police force for the honourable member and his family he would be in a pretty odd situation from time to time after some of his more provocative speeches. We have only to think back to the dispute involving the Barrier Council, the strike at Mount Isa and several other occasions when the rule of law meant nothing at all to the honourable member for Hindmarsh. In fact, all he did was to stir and try to bring to the top unruly elements that could well have remained where they were. This is the danger to which I refer. I do not mind people like the honourable member for Sturt - if he has any sincerity in his makeup at all - being quite sincere and signing a sponsorship for the Vietnam Moratorium movement. It would not surprise me if he signed anything; I am quite sure that he would. But if any trouble eventuates from the Moratorium movement, then all the members of the Opposition who have signed this document will be tarred with their own dirty brush. The people of Australia, not I, will judge them according to the trouble that occurs. I hope that no trouble occurs. I hope that Opposition members can skate out of their difficult position. 
I apologise,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if in any strange way I am stirring them up, because I do not mean to. To prove the point that has just cropped up I shall quote from the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of a few days ago. Under the heading 'Bomb plan for SA' this article appears: 
Violent demonstrations were being planned and Molotov cocktails being made for the Vietnam moratorium' campaign to be held in Adelaide 
Student groups, concerned that the campaign's activities would be too passive, were planning their own deliberately violent demonstrations 
Evidence was given that: 
. Molotov cocktails were being made. 
They might not be used- but there will be violence in Adelaide and it will be deliberately fostered'. 
Of course, this article was produced by a very responsible person in South Australia. 
I would be very glad to. It was the Secretary of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in that State - a  Mr Martin  Posa.I do not mind how much members of the Opposition laugh. I know Martin Posa and I see no reason to disagree with that view because the Democratic Labor Party expressed it. Do honourable members opposite see any reason to disagree? They are a little quieter now, are they not,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? They are thinking of those swinging seats. As they do not have much of a majority in any seat that they hold they are starting to worry about the DLP and are not necessarily going to say that they do not believe the DLP leader in South Australia. This is a classic case of what happens when a party gets completely out of the control of its leaders, as happened last week. Unfortunately,  Sir, you  witnessed the appalling mob rabble situation that occurred. But there was a basic reason for this. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who are not game to sign the Moratorium document, have scuttled out under the cover of saying: Aha, we do not commit ourselves to these sorts of things'. This is also the case with the Opposition Whips. 
The Labor Party has got out of all control of its leaders and is being run by such incredible people as the honourable member for Sturt, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  This state of affairs was quite apparent last week. It is not good for the future of this nation when we see a once great Party starting to run like a rabble without any leadership. This, of course, was the main reason for the debacle the other night. I wish the leaders of the Labor Party the very best of luck, because the sooner they establish some form of authority over the more irrational members of their Party the better it will be not only for them but for the Parliament and for the nation as a whole. 
There are many things that one could say but I think that perhaps the best way for me to complete my remarks in the few minutes that remain is to go very quickly through some of the meetings that have been held by people who are working in association with those who have sponsored the Vietnam Moratorium. I refer to a report from the Communist Party of Australia which is headed 'Tribune, 4th February 1970'. I shall quote only excerpts from the report because that is all I will have time to mention. One part of the report states: 
We do not want a Moratorium limited to traditional peace marches to the exclusion of more militant expressions of opposition. 
Another part states: 
Immediate withdrawal without conditions is a crucial demand of the National Liberation Front and the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. 
I do not know who propounded these fine views for the Communist Party, no matter how big or how small it may be. I have visited Vietnam on 3 or 4 occasions for a small period of time, and I believe that no-one would seriously regard those sorts of remarks as having any value at all. Anyone who has been to Vietnam and has got out of the grips of our own officials who tend to look after us when we are there, who has got away from the Australian sphere of operation, who has friends who have taken him out into the countryside - I hope the honourable member for Sturt, who is interjecting, takes due note of this - has not for one minute seen our troops or our involvement doing other than help the poor peasant farmers who live in the area concerned. In Vietnam 80% of the population is made up of peasant farmers and the high majority of these farmers have never seen 2 miles over the hills in any direction. 
When I first went to Vietnam 4 years ago I found that it was very difficult for these peasant farmers to make up their minds how to vote. They had no experience on which to base an opinion. When I went back subsequently I noticed a tremendous change. The Vietcong were there in diminishing numbers and North Vietnamese soldiers were virtually invading other parts of South East Asia in increasing numbers. The peasant farmers had had same experience of their schools being burned. But they had also had some experience of their special forces being sent down to train at Nui Dat and elsewhere and coming back trained in mothercraft, post-natal and prenatal care and other arts such as road building and local government. These were the people whom the Vietcong were going after; these were the people who were being slaughtered. The last occasion on which I was in Vietnam in areas off the beaten tracks and in the countryside made me quite certain that the people there were building day by day and week by week the means to form an opinion and to know how they should vote. Long may this trend continue. Let us take no notice of the hasty, impetuous and, in my view, irresponsible ideas of the Opposition. I believe that in 2 years time we may well have a great success story to tell about Vietnam. 
I conclude my speech by saying that I hope that Opposition members who take a high moral stand, they think, in relation to the Moratorium for Vietnam, give some thought in due course to Tibet. Did the Tibetans remember that the law was meant to protect them? Does the Moratorium, supported by the Labor Party, take into account the people of Tibet and of numerous other countries? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Navy, who represents the Minister for Air in another place. I refer to a television interview last night in which the honourable member for Casey, as usual, demolished the arguments of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Did the Minister notice the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition claimed that the F111 needed tanker refuelling support from the air equally as much as the F4 and that both aircraft therefore needed aerial tanker support? Is this so? If the Minister is unable to give a factual answer in depth will he make sure he obtains from the Minister for Air the information necessary to refute such an erroneous suggestion? 
Does the Treasurer anticipate decreased expenditure in many fields including housing through tighter lending conditions? Is he aware that, in the State of South Australia, housing is more dependent on bank finance than it is in any other State? As South Australia has only recently emerged from the worst housing slump in its history, can the Minister see any way in which the industry in that State can receive some protection against a current policy that may well have proper economic justification in other areas? 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs whether he has noticed Press reports that Britain is expected to press for reactivation of a neutral observer team in Laos and Cambodia. Are these reports correct? Does the Minister see value in the proposal? What is the Government's attitude to such observer teams working under the International Control Commission? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I listened with a great deal of interest, I suppose, to the last 2 speeches. I think that it is apparent to everybody that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  made certain allegations to the effect that every step that the Opposition takes is geared towards the encouragement of North Vietnam winning the war. This was the one thing that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  did not answer, though he went all over the countryside in his speech, left, right and centre. 
The honourable member for Grayndler has not answered that accusation because he knows that a strong element of truth is to be found in precisely what the honourable member for Boothby said. 
While he was about it, the honourable member for Grayndler also accused the honourable member for Boothby and, I think, honourable members on this side of the House of being Fascists. I suppose that there is nobody within our Party who disagrees more than I do on some issues with the honourable member for Boothby. I think that it is open knowledge that, in our Party, we encourage a divergence of views. We are not dictated to on policy by a mob of people not elected by the Australian public. We have, I do maintain, a democratic notion within our Party of which the Opposition is jealous because it is dictated to. 
All I must do, because I wish to get on to another issue, is to point out quite plainly, as I think it is apparent to everybody, that the honourable member for Grayndler did not attempt at any stage to answer the case put forward by the honourable member for Boothby. Instead of that, he adopted a policy of character assassination. 
I. think that this is quite typical of the element of buffoonery that the honourable member for Grayndler always succeeds in introducing and encouraging. I do not think that the honourable member for Sturt needs much encouragement. If I may return to the point that [ was making, we on this side of the House do encourage a divergence of views. We are an anti-Socialist party. We are a party that has some regard for small people and small countries - 
I have regard even for the mind of the honourable member for Wills. Thanks for the interjection. We are a party that takes its duties seriously and that does not wish to be flippant, to joke or to buffoon about them. I deeply deprecate the speech made by the honourable member for Grayndler and his attempts by sarcasm and by other means to try to downgrade the character of the honourable member for Boothby who is rather famous for his courage as indeed was his father who represented the same seat before him. 
What I really wish to do today is to mention a matter that happened in the South Australian Parliament last week. The South Australian Government last week was defeated on the floor of the House of Assembly, not by the people but by 1 man - an Independent - frantically trying to hold his seat and trapped by a tape recorder - and by an Opposition having no regard for technological facts and no regard for founding its opinion on proper grounds. This Opposition, not able to succeed in passing its amendments during the last hours of the debate there, was frantically scuttling for political advantage by tacking its support on to the amendment moved by the Independent. The carrying of that amendment brought down the South Australian Government. What is the position? A little while ago, 4 leaders of Governments signed an agreement to ratify and to build the Darthmouth Dam. A tremendous advantage for the State of South Australia was built into this agreement. This advantage was the alteration of the entitlement for water in South Australia from 1.254 million acre feet to 1.5 million acre feet. This represented an increased supply of water to that State of 37% . This increased entitlement to water meant that 
South Australia had first call on the Murray system. The 2 upstream States, not having an entitlement to a quota, would receive only whatever is left. Built into that agreement was the best protection for South Austral a that we possibly could have expected. By the regrettable action of 1 Independent and by the capricious action of a totally irresponsible power hungry Opposition, we are now back, regarding an entitlement to water, to where we were at the 1915 level. It is about time that this fact was well recognised and the totally irresponsible action for anyone interested in the future well-be:ng of South Australia was pinned home to those responsible. 
I maintain that this regrettable action is completely against the interests of South Australia. The current position is that the State is back to 1.254 million acre feet whereas our entitlement was to be 1.5 million acre feet. The Leader of the Opposition in South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  has said that he will try to renegotiate the 2-dam project. The 2-dam project is quite ridiculous. May I explain briefly to the House what it means? The entitlement of South Australia under the Dartmouth Dam Agreement Act has been increased from 1.254 million acre feet to 1.5 million acre feet. This means that if 2 dams are to bc built, any increased yield that Chowilla may give if it is built by a stroke of the magic wand - and I cannot really see at least 2 parties to the Agreement ever agreeing to its establishment - must be considered. 
What it means is that instead of an entitlement of 1.5 million acre feet - our quota now - an addition of 0.2 million acre feet will be made to the flow of the Murray River system. South Australia will move from the level established under the Agreement to the level that would result from the building of both projects. It is very problematical whether, if Chowilla were built, South Australia would get any increase in its entitlement, because it is only the entitlement that governs the quantity of water coming into South Australia. This is not governed by whether or not water flows up hill or down hill or whether or not dams are built north, south, east or west. It is the entitlement that is of importance. 
No doubt, if Chowilla appeared by some stroke of the magic wand, South Australia would put forward a case for a proportion of the 0.2 million acre feet. It would be awfully lucky to get it if from 1915 to 1970 our entitlement remained the same. In a very marginal increase, with our entitlement now being so great and so beneficial to the State, I think a great deal of doubt would arise as to whether we would receive any extra water from Chowilla, because we have first call on our entitlement now. So, in a state of drought, we would still have this entitlement of 1.5 million acre feet while the 2 upstream States, taking what is left, would have approximately 0.9 million acre feet each. At this point in time there is no case for a dual dam project. It is totally irresponsible for a major party that claims to have new intellectual qualifications to put itself in such a ridiculous situation. 
I will conclude my remarks by saying one thing. It is possible that Chowilla will be be built. It is to my interest ultimately that it should be. It is something for which I will fight on behalf of my electorate when I see any possibility. But it will be built, in comparison with other schemes whether they be upstream or not, in order in due course to substantiate the entitlement of South Australia to 1.5 million acre feet. If there are further diversions upstream there will be a case for new damming of water. That will be the time when Chowilla may be built. But any party that tries to play ducks and drakes on a matter so important as water is to South Australia deserves the censure it will unquestionably get at the State election to be held soon. 
The Minister for National Development will be aware that written into the Dartmouth Dam agreement, which was signed by the leaders of 4 interested governments, was a clause granting South Australia an effective increase in divertible water entitlement of 37%. Will South Australia necessarily be offered this increase in entitlement in any renegotiation of the agreement? If the conditions are altered, for example by request to build 2 dams at once, what will be the attitude of the other parties? Can the Minister see any immediate advantage to South Australia in the construction of Chowilla Dam in addition to Dartmouth Dam or would any marginal increase in yield be taken up by the 2 upstream States? 
I rise tonight to support this Bill. I find little wrong with it and the more I inquire the more it satisfies my idea of the aspirations of the Australian nation. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  tonight tried to make great play on the legislation. He said, for insance, that 'it does not cover everything we want'. That would be the- understatement of the. century. Later on I hope to deal with protective devices that assure the independence of this Corporation and protect the Australian people from just what the honourable member for Chifley was talking about. He tried to make play of an alleged difference between the present Minister for External Affairs   (Mr McMahon)  and the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  Of course, both of them would bring great lustre to the Austraiian Labor Party and I can understand why honourable members opposite have green eyes when they think of these 2 honourable members. People can call this Bill by any name they like to coin, depending on what they prefer to think. One can, I suppose, call it socialistic legislation; one can call it, as the honourable member for Chifley did, the McEwen Bank, or whatever you like. But this is the result of a Cabinet decision by this Government. 
The Opposition so far has made great play of the fact that we are introducing this legislation at this point of time. May I just hark back to the days prior to 1949. Then the people of Australia voted out of power a government that was concerned with restrictive policies - restrictive policies in terms of banking legislation, restrictive policies in terms of petrol rationing and in general a complete distrust for the use of overseas funds for the development of Australia. It is quite wrong - I think this is well recognised in the community - for the Opposition to draw the inference that everything the Government has done in the past is wrong and everything it has been suggesting, quite often at the wrong time, is right. This would be incorrect. If we can continue the argument a little longer it will be realised that we have seen in this country in recent years the biggest growth the nation has ever experienced. Ours is one of the highest growth rates of any nation, and this has been brought about by the opposite of restrictive policies. I hesitate to think of some of the facilities that would be offered to the people in the community today if the conditions of those days prior to 1949 were still with us. One could readily imagine, for instance, one television station to each capital city; no television reaching into the outlying areas; this service controlled entirely by the Government; and other restrictive policies. One can imagine our situation if we now had the lack of faith in the public sectors of this nation which coloured the policies of the Government prior to 1949. 
So it is no use the Opposition saying that our policies have been ineffective. On any judgment of growth and on any judgment of the facilities available to the people, the record of the Government has been excellent. But times change and nobody looking to the future would put forward policies that do not adjust themselves to that change. This as I see it is the very reason why this Bill is before the House tonight. The world today is closer and in many ways is tougher. In many ways I agree wilh most of the comments made tonight about the importance in the commercial scheme of things of big overseas corporations. But I do not damn all corporations. I think I will have time later to touch on the point that one of the aims of this Bill would be to get hold of corporations which seem to us to be somewhat big, but which are Australian-owned, and do something about helping them to set up dependent companies overseas with parent companies in Australia. 
I am not particularly interested in the past. I am not interested in doctrinaire philosophies. I have not the slightest interest in what the honourable member for Chifley thinks the Opposition would do if it had this Bill to control. Of course, the time might come, regrettably for Australia, when it might have control and if this happens no doubt it will set up precisely the instrumentalities or corporations I suppose it has in mind. As I. said, the world is closer. Communications have improved to such an extent that we are not remote from the dealings of other nations: we are not remote from the dealings of overseas companies. I believe that one could substantiate a good case to support the view that this Corporation has a proper slot for its activities. 
Perhaps I could lead now into our own situation at this point of time. I suppose we have heard people on the hustings say for years that Australia is on the threshold of real greatness and probably this becomes more true every time it is said. Tn spite of the high cost structure, at any rate in comparison with most new countries, and in spite of a tariff war, both of which have made the position of export based industries somewhat critical, the economy of this country has continued by and large to expand and produce proper facilities and proper services for the people of Australia. The overall Australian economic position is in great measure healthy due to capital inflow. The Government encourages capital inflow and nothing in this Bill would aim to detract from that. In fact, the effect of this Bill would be that we would get a net increase in desirable capital flow properly directed into this nation. We need this capital inflow. The Bill certainly docs not alter this position in my view. 
The problem we have, as T think the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said early in his speech and as we are all aware, is a deficit on current account. This is one weakness that one could perhaps look at and be mildly suspicious of in terms of the future of this very healthy economy in Australia at this time. We are though one of the few nations in the world which up till now has done very little directly to aid the flow of capital and its resources so that new Australian industries of worth and potential will be encouraged to become viable as rapidly as possible. We have over many years provided a lot of indirect help to industry and this has been responsible for a certain amount of growth. I refer particularly to the export incentive schemes, trade promotion, the Export Development Council, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, general taxation provisions and general tariff provisions in some ways. At this point in our history I do not believe we have made a full impact. So we are faced tonight with a Bill which is an unusual one for the Government, an unusual one for this nation, lt aims specifically to help Australian industries with export potential. 
I do not believe it is proper - perhaps other honourable members will disagree with me - to compare the Corporation with a bank. It will not be a bank, lt will not have the advantages of a bank nor will it suffer the limitations of a bank. In 5 years - a previous speaker disagreed with these figures - income remitted 'overseas by companies in Australia rose from 8. 3% to 10.5% of our export earnings. Although mineral earnings are up - what nonsense is made of the Vernon Committee's projections in this regard - and although our earnings from the manufacturing sector are increasing very much to our advantage, nevertheless our rural sector, has a growth rate of only 2% per annum. This is the sector from which, for many years, this nation earned its overseas currency. Whether we can improve our export earnings depends on many factors, not the least of which will be the capacity of the Corporation to bring some economy of scale into our manufacturing enterprises. 
I think honourable members will realise that much of the advice that has been given to our industrialists, particularly over the last 18 months, has been on these lines: Before you come to us and say you need protection for a variety of reasons, we suggest you go out into the markets of the world - out into Asia, with the closing of the Suez Canal - and try to develop your markets'. Why has that advice been given? It has been given mainly for the reason that if they can develop new markets they should be able to produce an economy of scale by virtue of low unit cost. This is one very desirable aim of the Corporation. The Corporation will start in a small way, for reasons that are obvious to many honourable members, but in the future I see a great increase in export earnings from the manufacturing and mineral sectors of Australia through the action of the Corporation. 
I am certain that its influence can extend to proper business principles, one of which is a realisation that a country like Australia, a great distance from export markets, must have regard to many factors. I have in mind industries which the economists of a few years ago called footloose industries - the type of industries that owe no allegiance to the economic laws that apply to most industries. They are no: industries concerned with bulky, high volume cargoes like com flakes. It may well be that the Corporation will be able to allocate funds, in an appropriate way, to businesses that have a growth potential based on small more technological articles such as electronic parts and watches and that have no allegiance to the same economic laws that apply to other industries which are faced with a high freight factor in respect of exports. I mention this because I believe that this type of thinking and this type of allocation of resources is one of the fundamental reasons for the development of the Corporation. 
I hope that the Corporation will be managed by a fully qualified board of directors, because this is vital to the successful functioning of the scheme. It is not, of course, vital to the Opposition's idea of the successful functioning of the scheme. The Opposition would have the Corporation under direct government control. The Opposition would do away with the expertise of experienced men such as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  mentioned when he spoke of qualifications. So we differentiate very clearly between qualified directors and government control, government interference, the dead hand of a Socialist empire trying to dictate to this Corporation for its own political advantage. 
We ses this Corporation quite clearly as having 2 full time directors. I will not go into their qualifications because they are referred to in the Bill and were mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech. I am not so interested in that so long as the directors are properly qualified. However I am vitally interested in the fact that the majority of directors of the Corporation should be properly qualified men of stature. I think the honourable member for Moore went much further than that. I hope to see on the board men whose names are household words - the Vernons the Simpsons, the Mcclellands, the Darlings - men of status and experience in their own fields. In my view, and I hope in the Government's view, the success of this scheme will depend completely on the quality of the part time directors. 
I have only 1 or 2 minutes remaining to me tonight in which to delve a little further into what I imagine their job will be on a day to day basis. I am assured that they will not go out and look for business. They certainly will not be instructed by a political party to go out and look for business. Their job will be to implement the policies of the Corporation. In due course proposals will be put to the board of directors. Unquestionably they then will do 2 thingsthey will look to the viability of the scheme to see whether it has an interest for Australia and has export potential, but further than that they will look, I believe, at the interest bearing capacity of the proposal. 
It is not my intention to throw names around nor probably would that be appreciated tonight, but I think it is well known to most honourable members in the House that a very prominent corporation in the mining field in Australia quite recently took out a short term loan at 12% interest. I imagine that the directors, when faced with a proposition like that, will ask themselves: 'Is this the kind of proposition which can bear this rate of interest and this kind of servicing of the loan?' If it is, they will grant the application. That is precisely the field in which members on this side of the House hope that the scheme will operate. The directors will not go out searching for business nor will they dictate what should happen to one firm or another. Instead they will sit back with their wealth of experience in their various fields of commerce, banking and economics and weigh up the scheme put to them properly and on proper business grounds. 
If I had more time tonight I would like to develop the thinking behind this Bill in terms of the protective devices which will assure, as far as human mind can concoct them at this stage, that sound business principles will be brought to bear on every proposition which is put before the Corporation. Protective devices exist in a very real fashion. In passing I should like to say that many of us have had the advantage of putting in a great deal of time in terms of the implications of the Bill, and I hope to be able to develop some of my thinking on it at a little greater length on another occasion. The Bill is hedged about with protective devices to assure, as far as human mind can do so, that there is no government interference. That is not in accord with the Opposition's views because we know what its doctrinaire Socialist mind would do to the Corporation. That is the main reason why we should vote not only for the Bill but also against any amendments that the Opposition might see fit to introduce. I agree that this is a far sighted measure. I support it. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs relates to the problem of reconvening the International Control Commission in relation to Cambodia. Does the Minister remember that, in answer to a question from me on this subject recently, he replied to the effect that one of his objectives on arrival at Djakarta would be to press for the reconvening of the International Control Commission in relation to Cambodia with a suggested impartial team of observers being part of it? Did this prove impossible? fs he in a position to explain to the House the difficulties involved therein? 
I continue my remarks, which I began last Thursday, in support of the motion for the second reading of the Bill to establish the Industry Development Corporation. I dealt with the fact that the conditions applying to this Corporation were almost precisely the same as those applying to a free enterprise corporation. An example of this is taxation in the normal course of events. I dealt also with the fact that the protective devices built into this Bill assure that this position -should be maintained. I referred, as an example, to the tabling in the Parliament of any notice of dismissal of part time or full time directors and the fact that Parliament has the ultimate say on such an action. I referred to the fact that the proposed Corporation is not an Australian Labor Party type of Socialised mechanism for taking over from private enterprise the industries of this country. I referred too to the fact that it was an aid to the manufacturing and mining industries from the free enterprise sector of our industry. 
Again, I referred to the changing circumstances of Australia, to the changing circumstances of our balance of payments and to the changing circumstances in regard to foreign equity in Australian companies. I pointed out that these changing circumstances needed a change in thinking. I hope I pointed out also that I regarded this Bill as being vital to meet these changing circumstances as they affect the Australian equity in Australian industries. 
I referred also to the fact that I would anticipate there would be little or no competition with trading banks or, indeed, the Resources Development Bank. I mentioned, I believe, that if there is a field of competition I felt that the Corporation itself could compete, and probably would compete, with the few merchant banks as we see them in Australia today. There are very few of those institutions. I referred to the directors, both the full time, but more importantly, the part time directors. I stressed the importance of people of consequence making sure that a business evaluation would dictate what terms were allowed to certain infant or other industries requiring and making application for funds. I referred to the capacity of the directors, both part time and full time, to decide what interest the proposition could bear and what servicing terms could be met. I pointed out during those remarks that the source of the funds would be the source as anticipated of last resort. 
I pointed out, too, that my expectations were that the Corporation, whilst starting in a relatively minor and small way, would come to the rescue - and I stress it again - of private sector manufacturing industries and private sector mining industries. There may be others that' would come into this category. But that is the way I feel the 
Government has worded the Minister's second reading speech - and indeed has worded the legislation that empowers the Corporation to take action in these ways. I pointed out that any increase in capital from overseas for the sake of this Corporation could confidently be. anticipated to provide a nett increase in the flow of capital funds to this country. I pointed out that government loan capacities would not be competing in certain areas available for this type of overseas finance. I pointed out,  Sir, that  quite contrary to my friends on the opposite side of the House there was no intention whatsoever - that is the happiest news - by the Government to allow any intrusion by governments into the function of the Corporation, that every protective device possible as far as I am aware surrounds the Bill in order to assure that it does succeed in its aims of helping to finance propositions from the private sector of Australian companies. 
Not long ago an honourable member of the Opposition pointed out to me very plainly - and of course he shall be nameless - that his complaint with this Bill was that it helped private industries too much. This, of course, demonstrates precisely the difference between the Government's attitude on this type of legislation and the Opposition's attitude. We do not wish that this Act setting up the Industry Development Corporation should aid in public sector investment; on the contrary, we wish it should aid in private sector investment. To use an argument, as I have read on odd occasions, that this therefore would help our Socialistic friends to achieve their ambitions for public ownership of companies is quite ridiculous. The whole aim of this Bill is in entirely the opposite direction. I believe that the time will come when the Corporation will achieve a very worth ful function for the people of Australia and will achieve the aims of this Bill. 
 1  accept the challenge: If the worst for the nation comes to pass and the Australian Labor Party does take control of the government benches in due course, the very terms of this Bill make  a  decisive difference between that Party's ideas and the ideas of the people on this side of the political fence. I have taken it as tantamount to a declaration of Labor's own policies that honourable members opposite would not give financial help to Australian industries with export potential; honourable members opposite would not give it because they wish such industries to be taken over by public sector corporations - by the Government - and no doubt they would introduce a Bill that might look, at face value, extremely like this Bill but whose provisions would be the exact converse of the terms of this Bill. I thank the honourable member for his interjection because 1 think it is most necessary that the people of Australia should be very well aware at this point of time that there is a complete philosophical difference of approach between the  2  parties in this House on the question of public ownership. The Labor Party believes in public ownership and we on our side of the political fence believe in encouraging private ownership, with proper business principles applying to it. 
For too long 1 have listened on odd occasions to people, not aligned politically, use frantically and loosely the term 'free enterprise'. This country has never adopted the same attitudes as the United Kingdom or the United States of America regarding the ownership of public facilities and instrumentalities. This country has never had, for instance, a privately owned company owning the telephone structure. We have never had to any reasonable degree private ownership of railways or private ownership of the major type of hospital. Where are we? I say: Beware of the person who loosely uses the phrase 'free enterprise'. We have our own methods in this country and 1 will give regard, when it is due, to Opposition legislation. Thinking back over the last 30 years 1 can recall some legislation introduced by the Australian Labor Party that has worked to the benefit of this nation. After all, that is the approach we want set out in the terms of this Bill. If it had been bad legislation the Government would have altered it. Some of it was bad. We are a young nation and we are feeling our way. I believe there is a slot and a sound reason for the establishment of this Corporation, and that it is in the interest of the Australian people that this Bill should be passed. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that professional and other working women who require domestic help in the house, or for child minding purposes, are unable to claim such costs as a deduction against taxable income? If this is so, does this discriminate against women or are males also denied such deductions? Will the Treasurer have a look at the implications of this question in relation to the drawing up of the next Budget, including the costs concerned in child minding centres? 
1 think it is right that someone from this side of the House should follow the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  particularly in view of one or two comments that he has made. My comments will be in the highest possible vein, so I hope that 1 heard what he said accurately. My note is that he said the last Select Committee - in other words, the previous one - did not talk about ultimate arrangements. This is quite contrary to my understanding of the work of the previous Select Committee. With respect, I think this point wants questioning if I am not in a position to refute it. Nevertheless, I think it can be refuted on the evidence of the statement just made by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes).  I would like to start by commenting  on  that point. 
The Minister's statement largely deals with the job of the Select Committee on Constitutional Development. 1 want  to  say briefly that I had the opportunuity while in New Guinea with the delegation on Anzac Day of attending a meeting of the Select Committee at one of the points where  it  took evidence in the Gazelle Peninsula. It was a most enlightening experience. Views were put forward by a wide variety of Tolais, I should imagine. They were put over in a most erudite and sensible fashion. There are other lessons that 1 think one can absorb by sitting in for an hour or two, as the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and I did on that occasion. I think the first attitude of importance that was conveyed to me was that in many cases it is not only the members of this House who do not know precisely what is meant by the Westminster system. The indigenous people of the Territory when attempting to refer to it and to criticise it are also in that position. Views were put forward in relation to the Westminster system. Views were put forward concerning the presidential system, as it was termed on this occasion. These views, as examples of commonsense and logic, were first-class and must be commended. Again I make the comment that their views on the presidential system, frankly, are not in accord with my own understanding of the presidential system, for what that proves. 
The debate then went on and, for the sake of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  I must say it continued without any interruptions or any influence being exerted. It was a thoroughly good example of proper tapping of people's feelings. People put their views. The speakers were then subjected to questioning by members of the committee who were in attendance on that occasion. But where they really got into deep water, if ] may use that term with respect, was when they got into a composite of a federal and 2- House system or bicameral system. One can only sit back and wonder whether in fact this is not a form of completely mythical thinking that has no reality in relation to a society of the Territories of Papua and New Guinea. 1 saw fit to comment to one or two people afterwards that coming from a State Upper House in a Federal system and going to a Lower House in the central government - the Commonwealth Government of the country - I thought I was in a pretty fair position to say that the majority of the people of Australia do not know the difference, even in our sophisticated society, between one House and another. Views were put forward on this occasion that an attempt should be made to transform the Federal system with a bicameral system in order to satisfy their aspirations for localised control. But that can so obviously be carried out in innumerable other ways without wishing to take the worst features of the Australian Constitutional system to the Territories of Papua and New Guinea. I make those comments in good faith.I was tremendously intrigued by the views put forward. They were put forward wonderfully well and remarkably concisely within the limits of their understanding of the position. However,I would also add those reservations which I have mentioned as to the evidence that was received by this Select Committee at that part of the Territory. 
If I may, I would like to deny as best I can the contention of the Leader of the Opposition that in some way force is being used to stop the formation of the party structure in the Territory of Papua and New 
Guinea. I do not believe this is true. I have had first hand evidence of 2 moves to form parties in the last 6 months in the Territory. We all know that a party of some consequences has already been formed. I refer to the Pangu Party. I am quite sure this is a trend that will evolve. I would like to make the point that, when we consider the remarkable and successful exercise in lifting a people without much training and certainly without an infrastructure at all from the stage they were at immediately after the last war to the peak that they have reached today sociologically, in terms of political awareness and in terms of economic growth, we should have a little more perspective in this Parliament in relation to this exercise, if 1 may use that term. It is no earthly use picking out isolated fields and attempting to damage the structure and the success that has been achieved. I think in many ways people such as the Leader of the Opposition will have a lot to answer for in the future. I expect it is not worth mentioning in any detail the fact that some shipping proprietary company- 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting 1 was pointing out that 1 had made several visits to Papua and New Guinea in recent months and that as leader of a delegation last Anzac Day I was able to listen for a time to evidence that was given to the Select Committee on Constituti onal Reform. I made some comments in relation to that. This Parliament has a great responsibility that it would do well to remember in relation to the future economic and sociological progress of the Territory. I was referring rather regretfully, to demonstrate the sort of problem that exists, to a Press report. I am assuming that the Press statement represents the true facts. It may well be that it does not, so I make that qualification. But according to a Brisbane newspaper of 20th May the Steamships Trading Company, through its legal officer,  Mr J.  K. Smith, reports that it intends to build a 150-bed modern international hotel in Port Moresby.  Mr Smith  said that the company was ready to begin construction but the money was pulled out after the violence on the Gazelle Peninsula, which is some distance from Port Moresby, and the visit to the Territory by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Gough  Whitlam.  Mr Smith  did not name the source of the money. He said that the company had sought other investors from Australia and elsewhere, but all had refused to invest because of the unrest on the Gazelle Peninsula and because of statements by Territory and Australian politicians. One must regard the latter as an objective remark concerning the paucity of capital for this particular project. I have quoted this report intentionally because it seems to me that the Minister, the Government and the Parliament have a proper role to play constructively in the development of Papua and New Guinea in all phases, lt does not help the Territory's progress one bit for any honourable member to go there and make wrong, inaccurate or unfortunate statements. It is just as well that we be aware of this. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting 1 sa d that I was satisfied that the rapid development of the Territory probably had no analogy. It is probably the greatest developmental exercise ever undertaken by any one country, big or small. However, one thing does concern me. 1 know that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  is due to follow me in this debate. He is not altogether bereft of philosophical ability nor does he neglect research. On occasions he is very good. So 1 pose to him this question: How do we tell what can motivate indigenous people to rise above their environment and to take proper jobs and acquire higher qualifications? I will get back to this point in a moment. I think frequently of the remarks of several of my friends who are indigenous politicians and who have had the opportunity on occasions to go to the United Nations. But what do they see there? They see what is tantamount to a cement jungle - a sterile environment - with hardly a blade of grass, a tree or a living plant. They see this and they wonder: Is this the sort of progress that people seek to impose on us? Is this the way that people are trying to convince us the Territory should progress? 
On a recent visit I made to Papua and New Guinea a responsible Minister in the Territory Parliament said to me: 'Is it not a fact that the average Australian would like to retire and go fishing, hunting and swimming when he is 40 or 45?' 1 suppose this is true, and the indigenous people feel that this is what they can do now. Even in the Chimbu Valley, which is not famous for its development and where one of the consumer commodities that the indigenes can purchase from the local store is tinned pork, instead of the traditional pig, an average of  H  days' work a week on a relatively established coffee plantation is sufficient to enable the indigenes to satisfy their requirements of consumer non-durables. 
One of the matters on which the more thoughtful members of this Parliament should be concentrating their attention, is trying to find out what docs motivate or could motivate the indigenous population. How can we sell them the idea that there is a requirement in any newly developing society for people to do something about qualifying themselves and having a wish to do something for their country? Much of this is related to national aspirations, lt is not easy, as I have found out to my cost over some period of time, to go to the Territory and try to discover what national aspirations the people have or would wish to have. This Government, I think, found ohe answer to the national aspiration problem when not many years ago it took the worthwhile risk of permitting, within stated limits and qualifications, a total vote in the Territory. This was a great experiment and something which, at that stage of development, met their feelings of national aspiration. 1 think that members from both sides would agree, to some degree or another, that the Government has attempted to encourage, by a step by step process, the subsequent fulfilment of national aspirations. I say this very seriously because not only is there probably some merit in the statement made on behalf of the Steamships Trading Co. but because unless this national aspiration can be pinpointed and satisfied investment obtained, the Territory will become a questionable commodity regarding economic expansion. 
There is good reason to suppose that there will be advantage to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea if all races are enabled to exist side by side and to work together towards an economic plan and in, what is probably slightly more difficult, a sociological fashion, and towards more political awareness. I am not one of those people who believe that no progress has been made in terms of political awareness. I find - and 1 have no doubt that other honourable members would back up my point of view - that there is a tremendous awakening in political awareness in the Territory. The fact of the matter is that it is largely involved in the people's own local government and their own environmental circumstances. I think that this is understandable in a territory where mass communications are still not good. In terms of the very rugged terrain tremendous progress is being made by telecommunications and by light aircraft covering the areas, and development is occurring at a very rapid rate. I think we are stuck with the problem that in many of those areas politics or political awareness is something they know about through their own locality and this is of course particularly true in terms of the Gazelle Peninsula. 
I return to the point that 1 think we must always keep in mind. We must consistently inquire into what can motivate the people to accept greater responsibility. We must consistently inquire and talk and commute wilh them as to what their national aspirations are and meet those in as com.monsense a fashion as is possible. I do not mean to say, for instance, that if one or two half-trained academics are loose in the environment up there and hold the view that kiaps must get out or that we must lop the heads off the while people, that is a national aspiration of which we need take much note. A week or two ago I was at long lust able to get to a place called Cape Hosking which 1 had not seen since there were 150-odd Japanese planes on it many years ago. When I got there I found that not only is it the centre of the palm oil industry but also - more importantly to the issue I am trying to get to - there was a Papuan district officer on the north coast of New Britain. 1 said to him: What motivated you to go through years of training to reach this very responsible position you hold?' As so often happens when talking to these people on a personal issue, the answer you get back is not simple. One feels, as one feels in Asian countries sometimes, that there is a natural embarrassment and a reticence to try to analyse their own feelings. But it is the job of the responsible members of this Parliament to try to reach an understanding on these issues. I hope that in future there will be a little less loose talking. 
I join with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in supporting this Bill, lt is a Bill with very narrow confines. Clearly the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act is involved with the raising of levies. The legislation under which we could branch out into a wider debate would be the Dried Fruits Export Control Act which I gather deals with the regulations that govern the activities of the Board. The Board is financed by levies imposed by the Dr ed Fruits Export Charges Act. This amendment today aims to increase the maximum charge in order to provide finance to the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. The maximum rate at which the producer could be charged in the past was 0.1c per lb and this Bill aims to ra se it, as the honourable member for Dawson said, to 0.3c per lb. I gather - the honourable member for Dawson did not say this - that the forecast for the current season is 0.2c per lb. 
This, as I understand it, applies to the three- 
It applies not to the type of fruit but to the point of time. In other words, the current charge will be 0.2c per lb. This is reasonable. It is the sort of action the Government has had to take quite recently over the Wine Grapes Charges Bill which came before this House a Utile while ago. The difference in these levies is one worthy of comment. We did apply an increased optimum charge in the case of the wine industry at a time when that industry was in a buoyant state, as it still is. This is not necessarily so in relation to the dried fruits industry because of the particularly tragic time the industry had to put up with during the year 1969. At that time, the electorate of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  for instance, had the most serious floods and storms. This made it an impossibility for a big volume of dried fruits to be sent to the factories. It was not only a matter of a low volume year but I have no doubt the quality of the fruit also suffered due to the ravages of the storms and climatic problems in that year. 
The industry may be at some onus as compared with the wine industry because the year 1970 at this stage looks like being a big volume year. Even if the returns per unit from that big volume are not very high, no doubt this will increase the capacity, at any rate in the immediate past term, of primary producers, who will have a better chance of meeting increased charges, including the one referred to in the Bill. I will confine my remarks to the narrow issues dictated by the Bill and once again say that I have pleasure in supporting this Bill whilst regretting the fact that in some cases the industry, for the reasons I have mentioned, is not in a better state to take this type of increase. 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina) [4.5J- I join with my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  k supporting this measure which relates to the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board and its financing. I appreciate that the scope of this measure is limited but I think it is appropriate to refer to the Board and some of the operations which it finances. Of course this does not deal with the wider issues at the grass roots level as far as the growers are concerned and I am pleased to hear in this Parliament that at least references have been made to the difficulties that the growers have faced and continue to face. We will leave the grass roots problem in detail to another debate on another day, as is dictated by the confines of this measure. lt is true that the Bill comes before the House at a time when the dried fruits industry is facing uncertainty but I think it can be said that the industry itself is seeking the best road to progress. It is not unanimous on it at the present time or on the forms of organisation. The dried fruits industry is more susceptible than any other primary industry to the vagaries of the weather and natural disaster. I think it is extraordinary that such an important and successful industry should have been left exposed for so long to the natural disasters which are endemic in the areas in which the industry is situated. 
In relation to exports the industry has done particularly well. Since 1925 production has doubled from 50,53S tons to no less than 103,581 tons in 1967. The percentage of the crop exported has barely moved in the 35 years, lt was 73.6% in the period from 1925 to 1931 - that was the 7-year average - and in 1966 it was almost the same. A year later the percentage had risen to 78.3%. The percentage of home consumption has fallen slightly in the 3 decades- from 26.4% to 22.8%. That is the last year for which I have figures and for which figures have been made available to this House by the Board, which is the subject of this measure. But we are eating, I am delighted to say, 10,000 tons more currants, sultanas and raisins. This is a healthy thing and I am delighted to see at meal times that honourable members of the House of Representatives are doing their share to eat us into prosperity. This is very good to see. The 44th annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year 1967-68 strikes  a  note of stability. I thought it might be worth while in debating this measure which relates to it to put that on record. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has quite accurately described the machinery of the Bill and there is no need for me to repeat what he has said. I will however touch on it initially in order to make One more comment. The Canned Fruit Excise Fund, which is controlled by the Australian Canned Fruits Board, is the fund in which the surpluses described by the honourable member for Dawson are held. As the honourable member for Dawson explained, these excess funds are to be paid back to the canners under the terms of this legislation. I am not quite clear whether the growers will receive any part payment of this amount from the canners. 
I would add only one thing to his general argument. He mentioned quite properly the agreement following which the industry or perhaps the Board decided, after some negotiations, to discontinue as from 1st January 1969 its promotional activities in the West German market.I think one can continue this argument just a stage further and say that there is a lesson in what has happened for members of Parliament. The 
Fund is a government fund, although the contributions came from the industry itself; the moneys are not held by the industry. 
My understanding of what happened is that one signatory to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, in this case I think the United States, objected in some way to our trade promotional activities on the West German market. The lesson to be learned from this situation is that it is very difficult, whether by growers funds or governmental funds, to subsidise some forms of primary industry without running into this type of objection from signatories to GATT who happened to be concerned with a market outlet. 
That is about all I wish to add to the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson. This is nol an important Bill. It is a very minor one. But it will provide the machinery to allow the surplus funds held in the Canned Fruit Excise Fund by the Australian Canned Fruits Board to be disbursed to the canners. There is one other point. It is the intention of the industry to mount a bigger and, I suppose, a more expensive type of promotion fund in 1970. Some of the moneys for this will come from the excess presently held in the Canned Fruit Excise Fund. 1 support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Third Residing 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Anthony)  read a third time. 
I will not take more than a couple of minutes to point out one or two facts in case the Opposition is confused by its own political position. But before 1 deal with Chowilla, I point out to the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  that he should read something about constitutional government. He should realise that when a Party wins a number of seats and can govern, that is the constitutional position. It is no use getting blinded with science about the loss of percentages. The Labor Party's own former leader, Arthur Calwell, put the Labor Party, federally, in exactly this position. The Australian Labor Party wasted votes in areas like Port Melbourne and elsewhere, and well honourable members opposite know it, to the point at which if an election was held tomorrow in this nation, it would take the Australian Labor Party marginally more figures as a percentage to form the Government than it would us. This is the fault of the Party of honourable members opposite, as they well know. 

 Mr Speaker, I rose purely to make 1 or 2 remarks on the matter of the Chowilla Dam. Over and over again, the Opposition, seeking a new image, an intelligent image, has proved itself quite incapable of understanding quite simple mathematical facts. I know that some honourable members opposite have tried very hard and I know that others have kept very quiet. But the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  tonight has not. He has seen fit to show some courage for a change by tackling this matter of Dartmouth and Chowilla. 
The first point that the Opposition misses is that it does not understand what yield is. The second point that honourable members opposite miss is that they will not comprehend the necessity for flow in a river or what happens downstream from a dam if, for a period, the river does not flow. The third thing that they do not understand is very simple. Chowilla Dam was to be constructed to produce 1.254 million acre feet to cut out the years of low yield. It would never quite do this on the old mathematics. According to the new mathematics - I would invite people who want to take an intelligent interest in the matter to have a good look at these figures - Dartmouth will cut out in years of poor yield, not at 1.254 million acre feet but at 1.5 million acre feet. Any member of Parliament, in any Party at all, who wants to look after the interests not only of his own State but also of the other States involved in the Agreement could not but come down on the side of the fact that the Dartmouth Dam must be built. 
If it is built and if Chowilla Dam, with a stroke of the wand, could appear immediately afterwards, the increase in yield would be .23 million acre feet to .24 million acre feet to the total system. What dictates the How of water to South Australia is its entitlement. It is because of the action of the South Australian Labor Opposition and the action of the Independent member in the South Australia Parliament that South Australia's entitlement has fallen from 1.5 million acre feet - that is what it would have received had the legislation been passed and the Agreement ratified - to where it has been since 1915. I cannot imagine a more reprehensible, dishonest attempt at vote catching on cheap political grounds. 
I think that the Premier of South Australia was quite right to go to the people in that State when he was defeated on the floor of the House and not by the people of South Australia. Now, it is well known that South Australia has twice as many city seats and 23% fewer country ones for the first time. It may well be - I do not know - that  Mr Hall  will not be able to take the reins of government again. But he will give South Australia a big shake-up in terms of past votes - a vote that will put the seat of Adelaide, federally, in dire jeopardy for the Australia Labor Party. It will be a vote which will have the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  not puffing out his chest or looking quite so pleased as he does now because  Mr Hall  is right. This is the point that people who are prepared to think are slowly starting to comprehend. That is all that I wish to say. 
1 ask the Min.ster for Primary Industry a question. Is it a fact that the dried vine fruits stabilisation plan ceased at the end of the 1969 season and that growers did not vote in sufficient numbers lor a new plan? in these circumstances what is the position regarding the winding up of the three funds? Do credits exist in those funds? What action docs the Government intend to take to distribute the funds to growers? 
Initially 1 remind the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  that, while he might be proud to represent - as I suppose he has for a short while - some dairy farmers, I am a dairy farmer. 1 am glad 1 am not represented by anyone who can talk as much drivel in a few minutes as the honourable member succeeded in doing. He has not brought forward one constructive idea, except to talk about our market potential in Peru. That was most interesting. He dealt with one of the major sectors of our export industry. I deprecate such a ridiculous approach to the serious problems of the dairying industry at this point of time. The honourable member does not impress me one iota. I do not intend to deal with the generalities of the Bill, which the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  did in an extremely detailed and competent fashion; nor do I intend to touch on south east Queensland or tropical legumes. Tonight I congratulate the Government and in so doing I point out to the honourable member for Riverina that it is hardly the Government's fault that this Bill could not come forward earlier. 
by leave - I rise in my place briefly to say that I am pleased that this inquiry into the effect of dumping on the potato industry has taken place and that the Government, which properly has the right and responsibility to dictate policy in these matters, has seen fit to adopt the report of the Tariff Board. It will be quite clear to honourable members that some of the vegetable industries in Tasmania have been under some pressure from time to time. Sometimes the reports emanating from industry sources in the producing areas may be a trifle exaggerated and sometimes, as is so in this case, there is obvious merit in what the Tariff Board has suggested and what the Government has accepted as policy on the matter. It is very important that the House should look at the methods adopted when dumping occurs and recognise this procedure as an effective check to dumping and a measure to take care of the primary industry concerned. 
Dumping affects not only the Tasmanian industry but also the industry in various areas of South Australia of which I am aware, and quite probably in other areas. I am not so sure of. my facts about Victoria or New South Wales but I do know that in South Australia the pattern of potato availability is very different from that which applies in Tasmania. By and large over the years the pattern of the Tasmanian crop has been one of great variation due to seasonal conditions There have been years of big surpluses and years when, due to poor climatic conditions, the crop has been able to do little more than meet local demand, leaving no surplus for export or processing. In South Australia there is a greater continuity of supply, and I would think that this would be mirrored fairly well in Victoria. In South Australia we do not have variations in the crop due to seasonal conditions as exist in Tasmania. This is due largely to the use of irrigation. But dumping by countries which export to Australia does affect potato growers in South Australia. The action taken by the Government against dumping will be vital to the industry, particularly in Tasmania because of the seasonal variations which can affect the total supply of potatoes. 
If I were to continue my remarks outside the context of the Tariff Board's report I might be out of order. So I content myself by thanking the House for its generosity in allowing me to make these general remarks which I feel have some relevance to this matter. 
-! do not altogether share the undue optimism of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr 
Grassby), who has just resumed his seat, but I do take note of the fact that he suggests  -  1 am not aware whether on behalf of his Party or not - that we should try to sell dairy produce to Communist China. The list of major countries to which we export butter - the butter sector of the dairy industry is the one with the terrifying prospect - still shows a very great dependence on Great Britain, namely, to the tune of 85%. That situation has not altered from 1956 to 1969. The countries in respect of which there is a more favourable trend are Japan and Hong Kong. The Singapore market is approximately the same. The Ceylon market is approximately the same, lt is very small. Germany and Italy were once markets but are no longer markets. 
What 1 want to do tonight is carry on from what I said on the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill last night. If my memory serves me rightly, I referred lo that Bill as one factor in the reconstruction of the dairy industry. Most of my suggestions tonight will fall directly under the legislation dealing with equalisation. I start by pointing out the different patterns in production between some States and others in order to see whether there is something the Federal Government can do to encourage certain trends. We have known for very many years now that we must do something to discourage the manufacture of buller, lt is quite apparent, from figures that I will read in a minute, that per capita consumption is falling. The reason is not all due to the increased price of butter; nor is it all due to any intrusion into the market by margarine. There are other factors. 
We are faced with this position: In South Australia we are producing 17,000 tons of cheese a year and only 7,000 tons of butter. In Victoria the pattern is precisely the opposite. lt is producing 29,000 tons of cheese a year and 136,000 tons of butter. It does not take much of a genius to realise 1 ha on those production figures South Australia is a net importer of butter. If the position of every State approximated the South Australian position, we would not be faced wilh the terrifying prospect in terms of surplus production to which other honourable members have referred tonight. That is the first point that I would like to make. The pattern is probably traditional. South Australia has always been a State that has produced a lot of cheese, but the comparisons are quite ridiculous. South Australia produces about  2i  times as much cheese as butter, and Victoria produces about 5 times as much butter as cheese. I wish to give a few more statistics in respect of butter because I believe that they are important. Australian butter production in 1969-70 was in the region of 220,000 tons. The average production over the previous 5 years was 200,000 tons. The expectation for 1970-71 is 230,000 tons. The return to the producers on that production is estimated to be in the region of 30c per lb of commercial butter. Earlier I referred to the per capital consumption of butter. I believe that the following figures have some importance: In 19SS-S9 the per capita consumption was 27.2 lb; in 1965-66, 21.7 lb; in 1966-67, 21.8 lb; in 1967-68, 21.6 lb; in 1968-69, 21.1 lb; and in 1969-70, 20.6 lb. That pattern shows the inability of the home market to absorb the estimated increased production of butter. 
This is not the pattern wilh city milk. I will not produce any figures on this matter because I think all honourable members have probably absorbed to one degree or another the facts. Two separate projections show that on the average there has been a fairly healthy increase in the production of milk- But even this commodity is subject to competition from alternative types of production. We do not know, for instance, whether in 20 years time the commodity that is sold at the back door as milk today may be constituted of something quite different. Already one can see the problems that are being created by reconstituted milk and its variations. Some of those dairy farmers who are in economic areas at current prices are being deprived of the livelihood that they used to have. I am referring of course to city milk areas. 
I look on the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreement Bill, which we debated last night, as a very important factor in dairy reconstruction. The second point I have mentioned is whether dairy reconstruction in the States can be encouraged along the lines of what is happening in South Australia. I believe that in the short term we will have to register dairy farms. I believe that in the short term we will have to strike some form of equality. If we do it will overcome a temporary situation. There are valid reasons, which I will not discuss now, why this Bill should not be setting the status quo with probably a misallocation of resources in the long term. The third point I would refer to is a long term one. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  mentioned this in his very detailed and very lengthy speech which he concluded a few minutes ago. He referred to the fact that there was nothing in the Government's Bills at this stage or in any other action that tended to limit production. I suggest that there is, and that is that in time sheer returns to dairy farmers will probably limit production. They are doing so in at least 2 States now. I agree with this point and I think that something needs to be done. 
I intended tonight to go very fully into the 2 tier system. I would suggest if 1 may, with respect to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  that he and his officials should have a very careful look at a long term scheme such as this and if necessary introduce transferable quotas that will cause some limitation of production over the years whilst ensuring that at least some proportion of the farmer's income is based on firm sales on a home market. The next point I would like to mention is the one of merchandising and other processing and distributing sector problems. In 1968 the Australian Dairy Industry Council held a seminar. Apart from 11 papers on technological subjects many papers were presented on marketing and promotional problems. Not one of these papers, some of them of great importance to the dairy industry, has seen the light of day. I suspect that the answer is not that they give information to competitors such as the margarine industry. I suspect that there is reason to suppose that some of these reports would be too worrying and too costly for the manufacturing -sector of the industry to put into practice. I regret saying that, but I have a strong suspicion that I am correct in so saying. 
My next point is a major one. I think governments, members of parliament and dairy farmers need to be aware of it. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the following table which compares manufacturing costs per ton of butter fat in Australia and New Zealand: 

<graphic href="068131197006040_102_0.jpg"></graphic>

Factory Statistics Related to Above 
AUSTRALIA 
The factory costs in Australia are derived from a sample (22) of Australian butter factories, with an average production of 2,287 tons annually, the aggregate production  or  the 22 factories in the sample being equal to 26.09% of total factory output in Australia. Although it is not officially admitted, the above cost figures are significantly inflated above a true average owing to the refusal of large, and hence low-cost, factories to participate in the costing sample. In 1964-65 the 40 factories in the sample produced 40.45% of total Australian output. 
NEW ZEALAND 
The factory costs in New Zealand are the average costs of all butler factories in the Dominion, with an average production of 3,304 tons annually. 
The implication of these figures, if we ignore the breakdown of them, is that in New Zealand manufacturing costs per lb of butter are 2.8c. The manufacturing cost in Australia is 4.91c. The difference is not due entirely to the fact that dense cattle populations surround the factories in New Zealand. I would suggest to the House that these figures are borne out by a look at the details. The difference is not due entirely to the fact that lower wages are paid to employees in New Zealand, either. I suggest to the House that in Australia - and I refer to the north coast of New South Wales and areas of South Australia in particular - there is no room today for factories which do not have enough volume of through-put ever to be viable. We are up against the fact that ail sorts of parochial and loyal interests are maintaining these factories in their present uneconomic condition. Some of them exist purely for parochial reasons. 
The dried fruit industry and the apple industry in my electorate are quite similar in that so many small towns have, for better or for worse, a factory which they loyally support regardless of the cost of production and, naturally, regardless of the effect that the use of that factory has on the total cost of production. I do not believe that the dairy industry is at a stage where it can afford to support factories which are uneconomic. I can think of one area where every 2 or 3 miles there is a dairy factory. Not one of these factories is economic. Not one utilises its plant to the fullest extent. Several of them have siro-type cheddar masters working a minimum number of hours a day although these are designed for continuous process. This is the general pattern which applies throughout these factories. I can think of cartoning plants in some areas which are not utilised. 
I am in a quandry in regard to this legislation. I support the Bills which are before the House. I think we have to support them if we are to give the dairy industry any chance of climbing out of the rut it is in. But I do suspect that hidden in the equalisation figures is the fact that many of the processing and manufacturing plants on which the dairy industry depends have lost track of competition and are not competing against each other. Co-operatives, which operate at a great advantage because of the taxation benefits which accrue to them, are not proving to be the competitive forces that they should be to other proprietary firms. I am horrified at their lack of ability to meet the changing conditions. I think that this is a problem of which honourable members should be made well aware. Honourable members on both sides of the House should be prepared to go to the people in these areas and point out that every time there is an increase in the price of butter by far the majority of it goes to the manufacturing sector. Nobody would mind an increase in the price if an efficient job were being done, but I very much suspect that this is not true. I do not think that the industry is getting the productivity that it should be getting for the number of reasons I have tried to explain to the House tonight. I make these suggestions because they form part of the contructive changes which are necessary in the dairy industry. I believe that we have to face up to the fact that we must get tough with the industry itself in our negotiations. 
I have in front of me a paper which, I think it is true to say, has been presented by the Minister for Primary Industry on behalf of the Australian Dairy Industry Council. Some of the conditions and some of the requests to which it refers are, to my mind, quite stupid. I am speaking as a man who has had experience in the dairy industry. Somehow or other we have to prevail on the industry to meet the changing conditions, not to be frightened to do a bit of experimenting and to use some imagination in the production of new products and the marketing of them. I am very serious about this matter. I would like to take a lot more time to develop my suggestions in depth, but as the hour is late I shall resume my seat. 1 support the Bills which are before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second lime. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry and follows a question addressed to him a few minutes ago. Is it possible in terms of export of mutton to Canada and the United States of America to draw a differential in terms of inspection between factories that do carry out killing under hygienic and proper conditions' and which are properly inspected, and factories that do not conform or have not this degree of inspection? 
Since the debate on this Bill commenced earlier this afternoon we have experienced some periods of interruption, some' unfortunate and some due to machinery matters. I do not intend to develop the case for small farmers, as has been done this afternoon, because I think there is a great need to differentiate between the terms of this Bill, insofar as it aims to set up schemes for those who have in the past returned from war service, and civilian schemes, such as at Coleambally in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area and others that perhaps will eventuate around the Ord River and elsewhere. I cannot support the Opposition's amendment, which reads: 
That the House is of the opinion that a select committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement scheme. 
The main reason why I would not support the amendment in this form is that there are really 3 fields in which land settlement schemes can originate. The first is a national scheme or series of schemes throughout the nation for one purpose or another. One can refer to the past history of war service land settlement as an example of a national scheme for some national reason; in that instance to resettle ex-soldiers in many occupations, including on the land. In passing one must note that they should not be under any disability through lack of finance. Such schemes are somewhat peculiar and I trust that we have seen the last of massive national schemes based on a surplus of ex-servicemen applicants. I say this not only for the reason I have suggested, or implied, but because of the obvious fact that such national closer settlement schemes based on such a premise surely are uneconomic in this day and age. 
At the second level we have seen closer settlement schemes operated by a variety of State governments. This, of course, is marginally away from the substance of the Bill. One thinks of Coleambally, where I gather there are some Vietnam exservicemen who have applied in the normal civilian way for a block of land and under conditions applying to such applications. One can think of more tragic closer settlement schemes, such as the one at Heytesbury in Victoria, which cut right across the national interest in producing more of a surplus commodity which we cannot sell. It is for these reasons that I do not think we can proceed with such governmental schemes in the future - at any rate not for many years to come. 
The third category represents the private closer settlement scheme. I instance the Golden Heights scheme of citrus production in the Waikerie area of my electorate. Private enterprise - and this gets back to the only aspect in which I find myself in complete agreement with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  - is able to take advantage of technological breakthroughs and can use every modern means. lt will do much better than would a select committee of this House or any other House. Private enterprise has access to the proper scientific references. Its techniques will always be better than any government scheme mounted with yards of red tape and tons of technocrats all brawling among themselves as to which is right or wrong, and frequently without (he competence within the scheme to come to a proper rational decision. The future of closer settlement schemes is well demonstrated today by a series of thoroughly up to date private enterprise schemes, some of great worth. 
The question as to whether a national scheme should be permitted with government finance and under government control can perhaps be answered by comparing a fine war service land settlement scheme, such as at Loxton in South Australia, with the MIA scheme which was mounted not much later. In spite of all the work done in depth at Loxton, new practices implemented within a few years have proved that up to more than double the productive capacity per farm can be achieved. So the situation at Loxton is in direct contrast to the situation in the MIA scheme. For these sorts of reasons I cannot go along with, nor can I see the need for, the type of statistical information that I think the Opposition is probably after through its amendment. All of us who have war service land settlement schemes in our electorates are well aware of the problems. Some of the areas have responsible associations representing them. I instance the Upper Murray Ex Servicemen's Land Settlement Association in the Cooltong-Loxton-Loveday area in my electorate. These associations differentiate between the problems specifically concerned with war service land settlers on the one hand and the general farming community on the other hand. 
One can get awfully tangled up if one tries to overlap a problem that exists in a war service land settlement area with the situation of a person who has purchased his own farm from his own savings and who, quite rationally, feels that it is wrong to give too many financial advantages to a settlement scheme of one sort or another. 1 do noi personally go along with that thought because if there is one principle that the Government stands for it is that those who inconvenience their lives to serve their nation should receive a certain degree of priority. This has been the Government's aim in the past in relation to war service schemes. However, to advert to the Association to which I have just referred, over the years we - and I refer to myself and the Association working together - have been successful n getting cheap loan funds available for drainage purposes. A problem arose with drainage in the Loxton area, for many technological reasons, some time after the area was settled. 
With much help from the Minister at the table we have succeeded in getting funds available very early in the piece for another technical change - the taking away of overhead sprinklers, with the high salinity degree running in the River Murray in a drought, and moving towards undertree sprinkler irrigation systems. This has been greatly appreciated in areas at the lower end of the Murray which are apt to be troubled with sludge from other States and other irrigation schemes further up the river, in spite of the efforts of previous Ministers for National Development who have valiantly succeeded in stopping salt entering the mainstream of the Murray by 2 worthwhile projects further upstream. These are 2 things we have achieved and we are grateful for them. 
I turn to the problem of appeals for review of valuation. I should like to read one or two comments that, fortuitously enough, have arrived today, addressed lt) me. One letter reads as follows: 
The review of valuations got away to a very poor start. The information required by the reviewing officers. T. Colquhoun . and W. Gilchrist, was so comprehensive that none of the appellants was able to supply sufficient information. They were told a form setting out the required information would be sent out. Whilst it is nol a statutory declaration, it has to be factual, and many settlers have not the records to comply fully. Taxation only requires records to be kept for 7 years, and some have been destroyed by fire, mice, silverfish and dampness due to being stored in their Nissen huts and whether it is a valid point or not, most settlers don't keep detailed analysis books. 
That rather seems to be a failing in my area at present, which I regret. Historically this goes back to a meeting with the Association. With help from myself and  Senator 
Laucke, a meeting was arranged between the Federal Minister for Primary Industry on one hand and the State Minister for Lands on the other. We appreciate the consideration shown by both parties to our attempt to bring them together. This review of valuations was agreed to and is subsequently taking place, so one must say that despite the gloomy comments made by the writer of that letter at least we achieved an appeal for review of valuations. 
I have spoken on previous occasions about arrears. It is hard to differentiate between the total problem in a small farming area and war service land settlement problems. Therefore I think I will dispose of that matter for the time being and come back to it on another occasion when more time is available. J am referring to problems listed by the Upper Murray ExServicemen's Land Settlement Association on 10th August 1969 and forwarded to the Minister at that time. The next problem I refer to relates to a settler who wishes to sell. The Association has said that another war service land settler should be able to buy the improvements and any financial equity that the settler has to offer, to the value on the open market, and assume the obligations by way of existing mortgage repayment over the remainder of the term. I am most gratified to have received quite recently from the Minister a letter on this matter, which says: 
I refer further to my discussion with the representatives of the Upper Murray Ex-Servicemen's Land Settlement Association in March this year and now advise that I have reached agreement with South Australia that a war service land settlement settler be allowed to purchase the lease of a property of a fellow settler on the basis of the unmatured balance owing under first mortgage being transferred from the vendor to the purchaser subject to the following conditions: 
The conditions are in my view extremely valid and I do not intend to weary the House by reading them. I point out here yet another partial success in the Association's dealings with the Minister, who has been able to grant some of the requests made. 
I will finish these brief comments by referring to the problem of equity. 1 am afraid I shall have to omit mention of many topics, some of which have been covered by the honourable member for Braddon - although I think in many cases he somewhat over-exaggerated the case. In all closer settlement schemes, whether civilian or war service, where there is a massive reconstruction programme we must in future face up to this problem of equity. We have a problem which I think can be isolated from the generality of problems encountered by small farmers in these areas. This is the problem of people - exservicemen of your age and my age and perhaps a little older - getting to a stage where although they have worked fruitfully and well have no prospect in many cases of getting any equity if ill health were to overtake them. Indeed, where age prohibits the degree of active work necessary to run efficiently one of these farms as set up by the land development executive in years gone by, people are affected. It is hard to differentiate, but I am not at all sure that this Government would not be well advised to look at the entire equity problem of war service land settlement in relation not only to that equity but to the implication of the total debt of, might I say, the average settler. It has been done before and I believe the time will come when we will have to do it again and will have to wipe off some of the arrears incurred by a settler who has put forward a lifetime of honest work but finishes up with no equity whatever. 
I believe that not only would this Government be well advised to look at this problem but also having tried to solve the problem, to equate an area of responsibility, financial or not. in respect of States, other than the major States, which went their own way in these matters. The Government should in these small States equate the field of responsibility. I believe the State Governments would negotiate quite fairly on this basis and that this would overcome one of the worst features of war service land settlement schemes. In South Australia we have had divided control in the settlement of Cooltong, where the State provided headworks. There has been a complete breakdown. At Loxton, almost next door, the headworks were set up by the Commonwealth Government. Here we have 2 adjoining settlements where completely different conditions apply. Divided authority is no good and I request the Government to look carefully at this matter. 
I do not believe that the Opposition's amendment could have much effect on the information capacity or statistical potential of the facts bearing on this matter. This is a war service land settlement Bill and I do not believe we will have a similar scheme to that in the future. I believe that these things are becoming specific and individualistic from one area to another and they should be considered in that light. People should maintain their equity in these properties and indeed so should their children to come, if in due course they are to take over these blocks. I conclude by saying as a generalisation that great problems exist, but my area has achieved a certain amount of success through the efforts of the local Land Settlement Association. I am quite proud of the sensible fashion in which they have put forward their views and I am most grateful for the courteous consideration given by the Minister and his office in relation to the few successes we have certainly had. 
I do not pretend that in weeks gone by I did not adopt the same policy as that enunciated by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  In fact I do not suppose it is breaking a confidence to say that in my Party room some time ago I spoke in the same vein as he did. But I wonder whether the honourable member and perhaps some members of his Party have stopped to consider the ramifications of the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. Although they represent some inconvenience to me, as they would to the honourable member for Newcastle, I am now convinced that this is a move in the right direction. I should like to try to explain my reasoning to the House. 
First of all, whether we accept it or not, Canberra is regarded by the community in general as something of a white elephant. There is no question in my mind that in time to come members of Parliament, whether they like it or not, will be here for the majority of the year putting in their time on committee work, as has been suggested by honourable members, particularly the younger ones, on both sides of the House. I regret that this will occur but I believe that it will. In looking at the proposed amendments to the Standing Orders we have to take into account the fact that it might well prove to be the position in the future that members of the Commonwealth Parliament will be anchored here for the majority of the dme working full time on committees and on other jobs with staff supplied for that purpose. 
If the honourable member will restrain his undoubted exuberance for a couple of minutes 1 will continue my remarks. As I have said, whether we like it or not the chances are that we will be working full time in Canberra. When that does come about we will have an even harder job explaining to our constituents that in Canberra we are looking after the national interest. 
It is a bit nauseating. I would ask the House to consider these recommendations. It is inconvenient for me when I am unable to get a longer weekend. I agree with what the honourable member for Newcastle said in this respect. I have no intention of being in Canberra on Saturday or Sunday. 
It is up to each honourable member to make up his own mind as to the reasons why, and the reasons will be diverse. The point I wish to make is that as a stop gap, pro tempore measure I regard these recommendations by the Committee as being of importance to the Parliament. When we consider these recommendations let us stop for a minute and look not at our own personal convenience entirely but at the function of this House and determine in what way we can get better performance because it is largely on performance that this place will be judged by the people of Australia. I remember very clearly 2 recent debates, one on the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities and another on Meals on Wheels. During those debates honourable members for one reason or another - I do not deny for a minute their interest - took part and put their views to the Parliament, very largely I suppose on behalf of their constituents. But in the national order of priorities those Bills were very low in importance and of very low financial significance and yet this House wasted an extraordinary amount of time on such simple measures. Whilst all honourable members may be in agreement with the principles involved other major issues will crop up even more frequently in time to come which will be of major importance to the nation. 
Any move which will give additional debating time to honourable members which this recommendation will achieve in terms of approximately 30 days compared to 27 days in a normal sessional period, must be of advantage to the back benchers because it will permit more time for debate and there will be less wastage of time on individual debates. It will also remove some of the onus from the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  and the 2 Whips on the Government side in regard to the use of the gag. Obviously any administration of Parliament must be elastic otherwise we would not be able to deal with the emergencies which arise from time to time. I would earnestly deprecate anyone who did not think seriously enough of this Parliament and its performance - whether he be on the Opposition side or the Government side - and who did not take into account the necessity for the Government and the Executive to produce performance. 
Whether the Labor Party is in government or whether it is the Liberal Party which is in government, the performance of Parliament will very largely be measured by the community on the ability of Parliament to put through timely legislation - not 2 years too late or 6 months too late, but at a time when it should be passed. 
The incongruity of the situation is precisely this. Honourable members on the other side of the House have for many years been on the Opposition benches. I have not had that experience. However, I have a genuine regard for the rights of the Opposition to fight. In this context I would not have a bar of mechanisation to facilitate the counting of a division, because I regard it to be an inherent right of the Opposition to fight back on divisions, and, as it were, to waste time by fighting back. I do think that in the interests of the Parliament and the people of this country we need some reform. I do not personally regard these recommendations as a very great reform. As I said I regard this matter as a stop gap, pro tempore measure which is necessary at this point of time. I remind honourable members and those who sat on the Committee that there are many more important things that need to be considered in the future before we can streamline our methods and obtain performance on behalf of Australia and the people of this nation. 
I spent a few days in the House of Commons 3 weeks ago and a few days in other parliaments during my journey to London and it may well be that in order to get a proper priority in debates we need a great deal more consideration from those on the Opposition benches. There are ways and means by which this can be encouraged and there are ways and means which I have in mind by which we could gain more influence as a Parliament to try to achieve these effects, although the whole principle of the House of Commons with 630 members and room for only slightly more than 200 is the opposite of our position in Australia. On the other hand we have honourable members who are virtually in a hostage position in Canberra. I believe that there are great lessons to be learnt from experiences of a Parliament such as the House of Commons, which has functioned effectively for many years and which has altered 98% of its standing orders since the end of World War II. This is something which we have not done. However, the Standing Orders Committee is in the process of considering alterations to our Standing Orders. The Committee has produced for the first time since I have been here a list of recommendations. I hope that these recommendations are looked at in a commonsense fashion by honourable members. I also hope that regardless of the convenience to us as members of Parliament they will remember that other issues are involved. Firstly, there is regard for an Opposition. Secondly, there is regard for the effective functioning of an executive. Thirdly, there is the image we give to the Australian people. 
I would deprecate the day when Canberra and the Federal Parliament become matters of no regard in the eyes and minds of the people of Australia. If I may I will finish as 1 started. If we are to spend more time in Canberra and less time in our electorates it will be a bad thing. Surely the commonsense way of looking at this matter is to try to move as rapidly as we can so as to achieve a more effective use of the time that we have in this place and where possible to provide more hours for the sake of the Executive, the Opposition, the back benchers on the Government side and the people of Australia whom we represent so that we can hold up our heads and feel we are doing a job which is worthwhile and to the advantage of the nation as a whole. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that South Australia is to make a claim to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for further financial consideration? If this is so, will the Treasurer make all possible representations to the Commission for the utmost generosity to be applied to the application? Does the Treasurer agree that this is a proper suggestion, in view of certain budgetary disadvantages incurred, in view of the drought conditions applying in the State of South Australia and in view of the general lack of economic activity and confidence in that State since the unfortunate advent of a Labor government? 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question. What is the procedure of commodity control in relation to wineries under the new excise to be applied to wine? Is it true that spirit already taxed by way of excise could be taxed again in terms of the new excise on fortified wines? Can the Minister move towards some method of allowing wineries time to collect money from their sales before excise is applied to them as the present requirements could break some small wineries in my State? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. The right honourable gentleman will be aware of the great interest shown by South Australian senators and members in the matter of an application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission by the South Australian Government. Has he yet any announcement to make on this application for special assistance? 
-1 will deal very briefly, if 1 may, with one or two of the comments made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  I do not complain that he told any untruths at all but I think perhaps there is another half to what he said that needs to be patched up briefly. I have forgotten the exact level of the trust funds provided by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd to the Administration of Papua and New Guinea but it represents a very extensive equity holding in the mine. As well as that there is quite a large fund made available for the local people of Bougainville in many forms. New houses have been built for them. If a road or any other type of work upsets their form of life in their villages, their paddy fields or whatever they are, those discrepancies are made up by the company and this is watched over very carefully by the Administration. Furthermore, the component of local employment on the mines at Bougainville is of an extremely high order. 
The second comment of the honourable member for Fremantle refers to the Royal Australian Navy. I hope he will forgive me for presuming to answer his query in place of the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  but he was referring no doubt to the patrol vessels used by the 
Papuans and by the Royal Australian Navy for the various purposes he described. He made the comment that he did not know why they were bought in preference to some other type of vessel and he poohpoohed the fact that they did only 24 knots when some other vessel back in World War 1 did 25 knots. But the facts of the matter are that they were not considered in comparison with something else. They were built in Queensland; I mention that because I see the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  sitting at the table. I would not have thought that the honourable member for Fremantle would be so prepared to condemn these vessels if he knew that they were built in Australia to our specifications. These vessels were not built as high speed motor torpedo boats or high speed destroyers; they were built to be an economic form of patrol vessel and they exactly fulfil that function. 
I must touch very briefly on the Budget because 1 wish to speak on a matter of grave consequence to my own electorate, namely, the excise placed on wine. But I would like, if I may, just to remind the House once again that this Budget was brought down against a background of a growth at constant prices of 5.5 per cent per annum and against a background of full employment in this nation - a position rarely achieved by any other country, whether it be in the free world or behind the Iron Curtain. It was brought down against a background of average wage increases at a level never known before in this country. Only last week-end in the course of my duty I contacted 2 people as I drove towards the airport to come to Canberra. One was an employee of Chrysler Aust. Ltd whose wages had doubled in 4 years and the other was a driver whose wages had doubled in  5i  years. This Budget was brought down against a background of these things and it would be as well for the people of Australia to remember that this is so. Perhaps, as the honourable member for Fremantle says, so very frequently, things are fortuitous. So very frequently governments cannot help world surpluses. So very frequently it is impossible to feed starving people in India, which I know is close to the heart of the honourable member for Fremantle. The best thing that ever happened to the Indian people was when the Americans about 6 years ago 
Jacked up. if 1 might use that phrase, and through Public Law 240 which refers to surplus disposals said to the Indian people: You are no longer in the grip of drought. You have not done much to feed yourselves and it is time you got off the proverbial part of your anatomy and did something about it.' What do we see today because of this action? In this age of miracle grains such as miracle rice and irrigation wheat which have a huge yielding capacity India is pretty nearly self-sufficient in foodstuffs. This is a country which used to have to borrow, beg or get in some other way if it could not afford to buy with its own currency. So these things are not simple and I appreciate what the honourable member for Fremantle has said about them. 
As regards small farmers I can appreciate that if the honourable member has recently been to a small country town in Western Australia or anywhere else it could well be a shock to him because I suppose he does not go there so often. But there are those of us who have small towns in our electorates and their wellbeing is vital to the districts we represent, whether these districts have as their major industries wineries, packing sheds, aluminium can production to cope with the produce, or dairy factories. No matter what they do, these things are of very great importance and so are the people who support them. I make no apologies for taking this point of view. In fact, I intend to make the same point in a little while when I deal with the wine industry itself. There is no question that in many of these towns some of the local industries have not quite moved with times. Looking at the south eastern sector of South Australia and the north coast of New South Wales - almost anywhere in Australia except most sections of Victoria - there just is not enough throughput in some of the processing sheds to make them economic, having regard to the costs in industry, particularly primary industry, today. 
Tn passing I would like to support what the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  said today. He said that it was all very well for members of the Opposition to point to increased costs. Far more honourable members opposite have been involved in industrial action than have honourable members on this side of the 
House. 1 go along, to one degree or another, with the honourable member for Macarthur when I say that every time there is a strike costs go up; every time there is a strike there is less real value in the pay packet of the people of Australia. This applies whether they be workers in industry or whether they be people in primary industry struggling along with the huge increased costs and having to put up with the vast tariff protection which prohibits the import of cheaper goods that they need to fulfil their function. 
The chief items of expenditure in this Budget are the enormous increases in payments to the States on the one hand and the very vast remission of income tax to lower and middle income groups on the other. Many of these people will have a sufficient remission of income tax to make up - in some cases to overcome - any increase in costs arising out of increased indirect taxation in this Budget. This fact alone must be taken into account when looking at the wine industry. South Australia produces 70 per cent of Australia's wine requirements. There is no shadow of doubt that in South Australia the greatest percentage of the State's wine production is in the electorate of Angas. Wine is grown in 2 major areas of my electorate. Firstly it is grown in the Barossa Valley where high quality wine production is carried out without much aid from irrigation. It is a natural area capable of growing the highest quality juice in this country. Barossa Valley wine ranks very high by any world comparision. The top end of my electorate is quite different from the Barossa Valley area. There primarily gordo and sultanas, as well as a certain number of irrigated wine varieties, are grown. The wine from this area might have been said in years gone by not to be of the same quality as that produced in -the Barossa area. A tremendous amount of it goes to firms such as Lindermans in New South Wales and you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  possibly drink some of this wine imagining that it to be the product of the Hunter Valley, under which name it is labelled and sold. 
But we must go further than this and decide what the industry is composed of. Fundamentally, contrary to beer production, for example, the wine industry is composed of grass roots growers. These are people, some of them small vignerons with 15 acres of vines, who grow grapes for a living. A high proportion of these grapes finish up in wineries and distilleries. The second level of the wine industry is made up of wine makers who fall into 2 distinct groups. There are the wine proprietaries on the one hand and the wine co-operatives on the other. The differences in attitude between these 2 groups are legion. Of great consequence to the wine industry and of great retarding effect to my own interests and the interests of South Australian wineries and grape growers are the merchants and blenders of New South Wales. I can remember not long ago the industry proposing a scheme to tax itself for purposes of promotion. 
Might I remind the honourable member that he is a great sender of telegrams. Not only did he send me one of 47 words the other day from 2 doors away but lately I have discovered that he sent one of 88 words to a signatory of a petition. If there were 200 names on the petition I hate to think of the cost he has run up to the taxpayers of this country. Let him chew on that for a while and decide whether he is not the biggest single factor in the increased cost of services provided by the Postmaster-General's Department. 
The problem is: What damage will this excise do to the grower? There is no question that the other sectors of the wine industry are well and truly covered. They have had their problems over the years but they have had times of affluence and with increased throughput and increased economies of sale their position is assured. 
In South Australia attempts have been made over many years to assure the position of the grower. Many members on both sides of the South Australian Parliament have supported, peculiarly enough perhaps, a system of prices control which puts a value on the future trend of great varieties. If there was a greater requirement for cabernet sauvignon, riesling, the rarer wines or the newer wines such as pinot, the comparable rating each year was altered to achieve an effect that will lead towards the highest quality of grape production in those areas. The next point I want to make is that it is generally assessed that of the table wines - the wines some of us may buy at a dining room table - only one-third are quality wines in the high price bracket. Two-thirds are in the low price bracket, and under this legislation will carry a tax of between 20 per cent and 35 per cent. Of the fortified wines, 80 per cent are in the low price bracket and again will carry an increase in price at the rate of 20 to 35 per cent. Therefore, it is a mistake to think that we are taxing to any real extent in the legislation before us the wines that we see on a dining room table. We are not. We are taxing them very little indeed - possibly 5 per cent of their price value. 
Since the local wine industry in recent weeks has seen what is contained in the Budget it has wanted to know whether it is not possible for this impost or tax to be put on the industry in general as a sales tax or at an ad valorem level instead of as a fiat charge per bottle. At first glance this seems to be quite a reasonable idea. But I would think the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is quite correct when he says he sees difficulties in such an arrangement because there is no earthly use in penalising the very people who are prepared to produce quality wines in this country by singling them out for the same level of tax as would be applied to the production of sweet sherries, muscats and cheap ports. 
The honourable member for Fremantle is right on the ball. 1 did not know he was such an expert on this topic. I think it would be quite wrong after serious consideration virtually to penalise those people who are prepared to put down wine in their wineries, some of which is valuable wine - wine used for blending purposes. In retrospect I think that if people stop to consider this they would agree that this would be an undue impost on those prepared to store wine and to build in time, by blending or by straight production of that juice, a high quality wine. I do not believe that it would be in the best interests of the wine industry to adopt an ad valorem method of tax. 
I want to get down to a study of the present effect of this tax. No doubt when the legislation introducing this excise is before us we will have a further opportunity of studying what  has  happened. This morning my secretary rang a series of wine shops to see what was happening in terms of wine through-put. I will tell the House what  her  inquiries revealed. The first shop was in Adelaide. It is one which professional people tend to patronise. The inquiries revealed that the new price has  beer  added to some lines but not to others. There has been no difference in the weekly wine sales in the period from prior to the Budget to  the  second week after the Budget. This again shows that people seem to be quite oblivious to price changes. So far I suppose we should feel rather encouraged. 
The second wine shop was in the area of my friend, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  The proprietor said that there was a tremendous rush prior to the Budget. Since then sales have remained normal but there is a trend to purchase slightly cheaper varieties of wine. The next wine seller contacted is situated in the centre of Adelaide. He reported having had double sales before the Budget. The week after the Budget was introduced sales were slightly higher. At present they seem to be running at about 15 per cent above normal sales prior to the Budget. There does not seem to be much rhyme or reason for that. The next man contacted operates in a lower class area in Adelaide and he reported that there was some panic buying. After the Budget, sales returned to normal and last week sales were better than normal, for some reason or other. 
Just be patient and I will tell you what I think of it. The insinuation to be drawn from the report of that seller seems to be that customers are not particularly interested. This seller is in an area of Adelaide where incomes wold be considerably lower than in the other areas I mentioned. I would point out that the 4 persons I have referred to applied the new prices. The next person contacted operates in Western Australia. It was reported that the lowest priced flagon wine, a sweet sherry, rose from $1 to SI. 40; yet sales remained the same. I do not know what the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is saying but I do not think that 1 would like to drink that wine. However sales remained the same. in considering whether this tax is having a deleterious effect we have to remember that the persons my secretary contacted would represent only a very small proportion of sales. Sales have slumped in hotel bottle departments. This may be because people bought wine before the Budget was announced but I do not know. Sales have not altered in dining rooms. This would be because people who go to dining rooms buy a bottle of wine and I have no doubt that they will continue to do so. This area of sales is not of great consequence. I do not know details of cellar door sales but it is at that level and others that the wine industry runs into direct competition with breweries. I think honourable members recognise that the wine industry is very sensitive to price variations. This can be proved by any honourable member who likes to look at past Tariff Board inquiries relating to brandy excise, a matter on which the Government made a decision some time ago. 1 want to refer honourable members to an article by a  Dr Taplin  which appeared in a pamphlet issued recently by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. He made a great study in depth of many aspects of the wine industry. If one attempts to forecast what is going to happen to the wine industry, as I am forced to do now, then one must look very carefully at this article by  Dr Taplin.  Basically he said that price sensitivity and demand responses are of very great consequence to the wine industry. I will not weary honourable members by delving too deeply into his tremendously learned dissertation which is very difficult to understand. What he said suggests to me that on his graph results relating to price sensitivity there should be a 20 per cent drop in wine sales during the next 12 months. The price variations result from the 8.29 per cent tax imposed by the Government. Normal markups, whatever they may be said to be in a state of increased through-put and further economies of scale which should eventuate, involve 4 per cent and in South Australia there is an extra 3 per cent mark up for extra costs to be incurred in the future. 
One of the delightful situations of this enormous problem involves the South Australian Prices Commissioner. At present there is an Australian Labor Party Government in that State. I imagine that the function of the Prices Commissioner is to protect the consumer and to ensure that price increases within the field for which he has responsibility are subject to proper scrutiny and proper decision. I gather that in New South Wales, under a free enterprise government, the wine industry has put up the cost of wine per bottle by 13c; but the asinine situation that has occurred in South Australia - the home of the wine industry - is that the Prices Commissioner, protecting the consumer, has permitted the price to go up by 15c a bottle. I am unable to discover the bush logic of this. 
I have dealt with the starting point; I want to get to the finishing point. If we accept  Dr Taplin's  forecast of a 20 per cent drop in sales, remembering that this was made before this excise was imposed, 'then there will be a fall in the amount of excise paid to the Federal Government from $15.2m to Slim. Quite frankly I do not know why the Government is taking the risk of fiddling with one of the few viable industries in Australia at this time, even if price control is meant to govern returns to the growers. If in due course my fears eventuate, then I hope honourable members from all sides will join with me when I move in this House that there should be some remission in this form of taxation. I want to thank honourable members from all parties and all sides of the House who sent telegrams to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  when the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  tried to get up to some of his hanky panky and political practitioning. If my fears eventuate then I propose to move for the remission of this form of taxation. I am making my position plain. T am not going to blame my Party. 
Hold your horses. I am not going to resign from my Party or do anything dire, if there is a surplus of grapes that would have eventuated in any event. If I think that this tax is responsible for bringing the wine industry to its knees, as has happened to other industries, 1 intend to move for the remission of the tax. I will not for one minute - and let me make my position plain- 
If I may use my last couple of minutes in peace and quiet I would say that it must be borne in mind with this type of tax that we are not dealing with beer, which is made of water and is not over expensive even in South Australia, and barley, which is not the entire end product of the barley industry; we are dealing with wine. We are dealing with grapes grown by people who have invested $40,000, or whatever they have had, in the industry. Their outlets are the brandy and wine industries. The only other possible outlet is the dried fruit industry. Some members of the House may not keep up with that industry as much as other members - and I am not looking at anyone in particular - but only a fortnight ago Turkey del valued its currency and it has a big surplus production of the dual varieties of gordos and sultanas, and the International Sultana Agreement has been broken. The placing of these grapes is another important factor involved in this unfortunate action, and I deliberately refer to it as such. It is my intention to watch the position of the Australian wine industry closely because none of us can be sure precisely what the effects of this tax will be at least before the end of the next 12 months. 
Although I can understand the motives and sincerity behind the amendment which the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has moved on behalf of his colleague, which requires that one-third of the number of members of the House be present before legislation can be passed in a valid fashion, if I might put it that way, nevertheless, in all logic there is a different principle involved here. Normally there are 2 sides of politics in a Parliament, and one side has to keep the quorum and have a quorum available before legislation is passed. 
One could imagine the situation, for instance, in which the Opposition for some reason or other decided virtually not to be present at all. The amendment does not cope with that situation. It has not been indicated how asinine that situation could be. The amendment really does nothing in terms of assuring balanced representation of Parliament at a time when a Bill is passed. Therefore I submit to the Committee that the important thing is the quorum, and it will remain so. The balance of the House is of no account. This is all that I can see in the amendment of the honourable member. 
My only suggestion at this stage,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is that Opposition members should get together and speak with one voice. It is well recognised that there are internal difficulties in the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  referred a little while ago to the Department of Works. It is worthy of note that, according to my memory, no-one spoke on the Estimates for the Department of Works last year. Yet the honourable member suggested that a half hour is too short a period to discuss those estimates. I think I could go one stage further without breaking any confidences and say that the Opposition Whip, a member of the same party as the honourable member for Grayndler, advised that no time should be allotted for discussion of the estimates for the Department of Works. This was quite right because last year no honourable members wanted to speak about those estimates. Therefore I refute what the honourable member for Grayndler said. 
The honourable member for Sturt has been here for only 5 minutes. I suggest that he hold his horses and learn what goes on in this place before he offers some of his vociferous comments. I return to consideration of what happened in the Estimates debate last year because this is the only valid way in which we can properly allocate time. From memory last year we spent 4 hours on the Defence estimates and the year before we spent 4 hours and 17 minutes. This year we have allotted 5 hours. I hark back to the statement made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  that there is no curtailment of time for discussion of these Estimates. If we compare what is proposed with what happened last year we find that there is a considerable increase in the time available for discussion of the Estimates as a whole. The last point I want to make is this: I am quite convinced that in running parliamentary business there must be proper priority allocated to subjects. 
That was a most interesting series of remarks by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  For my part I see a lot of merit in some sections of his remarks. In my view bounties should be used to lower the cost of production in other industries. In essence the bounty on nitrogenous fertilisers was assumed in its original context to do just this - unless I am hopelessly wrong - to make fertilisers cheaper to primary producers with the consequential lowering of the price of foodstuffs to the ordinary consumer. This is a proper use of the bounty. If taxpayers have to provide bounty funds the bounty should have a lowering effect on the cost structure of the community whether in terms of other ancillary production or in terms of an overall consumer index relationship. The honourable member for Dawson is quite correct when he says that this is not so today, that not only has the bounty been directed towards the manufacturers of nitrogenous fertilisers - both urea and sulphate of ammonia - but also because imported nitrogenous fertilisers are difficult to obtain, to say the least, it is penalising in some instances the sector it was originally meant to benefit. I know of many instances in the fruitgrowing areas of my electorate where people in effect - I say that purposely - are using locally produced nitrogenous fertilisers on which a bounty has been applied at a higher cost to themselves than if they could get access to sufficient supplies of imported nitrogenous fertilisers. 
This is where the logic of the original intention has in my view somewhat fallen apart. However, with respect, I cannot quite agree with the honourable member for Dawson when by implication he says that bounty payments should go essentially to people in need. No doubt that is part of the honourable member's philosophy - and, of course, at one level or another it is part of mme too - but if he suggests as I rather felt he was suggesting, that those farmers with maximum productivity should be penalised in some way by not having the same access to the benefits of bounties, I disagree. I imagine he did not fully mean that implication because if there is one thing that will quickly ruin the attempt of industries, including primary producing industries, to equate with world prices and export parity - in other words to become viable - it would be the act of bolstering up some sections of them by Government action until there is utter unreality in price comparisons. To me this would be anathema, ft would be the wrong action to take. I am generous and have a sincere desire to help those in need but this would be a disaster for the nation. We can see precisely what happened in one of two instances in the past when this sort of general philosophy was carried loo far. 
I rose this afternoon to talk briefly about sulphuric acid and the pyrites bounty. I did so because there is in my electorate a small town called Brukunga which is the centre of the only mined pyrites establishment. This small town has been established on the production of pyrites. The raw material, the pyrites, is sent to a firm called Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd which I believe is in the Port Adelaide area. At any rate it is somewhere in Adelaide. This matter goes back to 19S4, as the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  said, when brimstone and other alternative sources of sulphuric acid were expensive imports. At that time prices fluctuated wildly. The Government at that time decided, in co-operation with various industry leaders, to establish the production of sulphuric acid in various parts of Australia. It was decided to establish a plant in South Australia which would produce sulphuric acid from the raw material pyrites. 
 Yes, at that time it was an extremely sound move. It might well prove to have been essential for local production in the future. I will come to that point in a little while. As is usual in those cases where prices fluctuate wildly, there has come a time when prices are low. As the honourable member for Braddon said, sulphur f.o.b. from America at present is as low as $US21 per ton. So this is a cheap period for brimstone which is the major world source of the sulphuric acid needed by many industries in Australia today. The main thing that most honourable members have in mind, apart from the various industrial users of this substance, is the production of superphosphate from phosphatic rock. This bounty was initiated because the cost of manufacturing sulphuric acid from brimstone was much cheaper than the cost in the case of pyrites. Indeed, to one degree or another this is still comparatively true. 
I do not know what method is used by North West Acid Pty Ltd at Burnie to produce acid from pyrites, but in South Australia the Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd has 2 methods. The first is the fluid bed method of production which is extraction by way of fluidisation. This plant has been installed for some time. More recently the firm has changed to the flash roasting method, which is a far more economical way of extracting sulphuric acid from pyrites. I believe that the debt on the capital involved in this plant has now been nearly eliminated and that this is a thoroughly economical method of producing sulphuric acid in comparison with other methods of extracting it from brimstone. 
Of course this firm wants to know, as soon as possible, exactly what the Government intends about the continuation of the bounty on pyrites on the one hand and, more importantly, the local production of sulphuric acid on the other hand. That is the matter concerning the company. But the people who live at Brukunga near Nairn also have an angle to consider. Over many years they have established a fine town. They produce pyrites economically and efficiently when compared with production in other areas. They want to know what the position is, because their future is tied up with the production of pyrites at Brukunga. 
The Government has seen fit to put before the House a Bill seeking to extend the bounties on these  2  commodities for a further  6  months. We are not privy to the thinking of the Government. However, I do not think it takes a great deal of imagination to realise that there are alternative sources of sulphur appearing on the Australian scene at the present time. Particularly if one reads yesterday's Press is it easy to see that  -  I think it is contrary to the remarks of the honourable member for Braddon - alternative sources are appearing. In the United States of America quite an amount of brimstone comes from the petroleum industry. This is not necessarily so in Australia. I gather that in the United States there are the typical dome-like structures which are the geophysical features of petroleum. This is not the case in Australia, mainly because the petroleum discovered here is mostly under water. Some by-products of the petroleum industry in America are not available in the Australian petroleum industry. Nevertheless, I gather that in all petroleum there is a certain amount of sulphur. This must be extracted before the petroleum can be an efficient and effective fuel. 
I do not regard this as truly significant in our hunt for cheap and readily available supplies of sulphuric acid. But in yesterday's Press there was an announcement by Western Mining Company about quite significant amounts of sulphur as a byproduct of the mining of nickel. I believe that the same thing applies to the mining of zinc. Furthermore, it has been well known for some time that copper contains quite large amounts of sulphur. One could ponder about the significance of the enormous copper deposits held by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd at Bougainville and about why we have not heard more about this, if the hypothesis is true, from Mount Isa. It may well be - I suggest this quite seriously - that the Government is looking at the extent of these new supplies in Australia of a raw material which is vital to the production of sulphuric acid, superphosphate and the primary industries which rely heavily on this major element in our soils. It is for those reasons that 1 rose to speak on the significance of the production of pyrites in my own area. 
Unquestionably new technology will produce a new balance in requirements and a new balance in economy. I believe the Government must look at this problem of the Australian production of sulphuric acid from pyrites for the following reasons: The necessity for Australian supplies; our defence requirements; the need to preserve hard currency for expenditure within Australia; and with a view to assessing total future requirements - a matter which is very difficult to deal with without proper projections and proper statistical information. The honourable member for Braddon touched on this matter and suggested that by  1975  there would be a need for double today's requirement of sulphur in its multitudinous uses in industry and in its application with superphosphate. All we can say is that we hope the Government and the Tariff Board are looking at this problem most carefully because it is one that affects not only the lives and jobs of Australian people but indeed could well affect the future capacity of Australia to develop its vital industries. 
I am glad to rise tonight because there have been some attempts during this debate to get an objective realistic look at some of the problems of Asia. I congratulate many honourable members whom I will not name for their obvious sincerity in attempting to do just this. However, there are problems. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  made the best speech on Asia I have heard him make since 5 years ago when he made the best speech I had heard in Parliament. I would like if I had time - I probably have not - to go over some of the points he made on that occasion 5 years ago because they bear a great deal of study in view of what has transpired. I think many of them have become truer than the honourable member possibly recognised at that time. We have been posed tonight with all sorts of problems. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said that war is wrong, bombs are wrong and killing is wrong. He asked why we do not recognise what is happening in Venezuela. I might add: Why do people not recognise what is happening in Cambodia? One could be excused if one said: Why do people not recognise more fully what is happening in Vietnam? I saw the height of stupidity the other day in one newspaper in my own State. There was a letter to the editor which condemned someone who was writing in this case in the most mild form against some sections of those concerned in the Moratorium. The letter stated: Why do people before they write letters not read the literature on the subject of Vietnam so they know what they are talking about? 
We all have our own methods of making up our minds and forming our judgments.' I went to Vietnam in 1965, 1966 and 1967. There was a lapse of 3 years and I returned in 1970. The changes are such in that country that it is absolutely remarkable to consider them, but does anyone stop to consider these changes? It happens all too seldom. When I was there in 1967 one could not be deeply impressed with the morale of the people of Saigon. One picked up the general impression that perhaps they were not awfully dedicated to self-determination for their own nation. Three years later the city was completely transformed. One finds, as one always did, comparative peace and quiet. Nobody is concerned about odd episodes inside Saigon or indeed in the rest of the country. But today one finds a completely different change in morale. If the honourable member for Wills seriously suggests to this Committee that we should renege on our position - I think one can say the same for the honourable member for Fremantle - at this point of time it is the height of lunacy. One can admit that perhaps the Americans took more time than they should have taken to wake up to the fact that the people of Vietnam, Cambodia and any country in Asia and our own country want to dictate which way matters go according to their own judgments. This is precisely what is happening in Vietnam now. It is so close to being a success story in South Vietnam that there is no difference. But what do we see? We find people saying, in my view without knowledge of the facts, that we should pull out, that the Americans should pull out. Why should they pull out? At this point of time there is a maximum of stability in that country; there is a maximum of progress. 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  suggested in a highly illinformed fashion that there had only been one election held in South Vietnam. Let me prompt his memory. There was an election to set up the provisional government in that country at which 90.5 per cent of those on the rolls voted. That provisional government set up a constitution on which the present bicameral system in South Vietnam is based. That government, which is now in existence, had a senate election, a representatives or congressional election, and a presidential election. Since then every few months there have been local government elections and Just recently the second class senators on the other half of the bicameral system went to the people again. Whether or not there is a democracy in Vietnam - which the honourable member for Capricornia says he does not believe in anyway - is a matter of doubt. But the only mistake we can make is to say that judged through our eyes they have not got what we call a democratic system. This surely is the most arrogant remark that any nation can make about another. We cannot decide their methods of thinking or the direction in which they are to go. When the Vietnamisation programme is further advanced than it is now the only people who will dictate what happens in South Vietnam will be the people of South Vietnam - nobody else. The Americans recognise his, the Australians recognise it and other forces in the world recognise it. Yet we are posed with his ridiculous hypothesis that for some reason or other we should now undo all the good we have done in that country when it is nine-tenths of the way along the line of progress to achieving some national ethos, to achieving some elements of selfdetermination - that we should throw this away for some nebulous condition that no-one can ever quite define. 
In this House on 23rd March 1965 the honourable member for Fremantle said: 
There have been a number of demands directed at the United States of America that it should negotiate on the subject of Vietnam. There is developing in some countries of the Western world almost a philosophy of demanding the 'getting out of such situations as that in Vietnam. There have been advertisements published in the newspapers demanding negotiations which obviously mean that the United States quit Vietnam. The only thing I would like to say about this 'getting out of philosophy is that it does not go far enough. If it were carried as far as it should go, of course, it would be a part of an effective world settlement. 
In the speech of the honourable member for Fremantle tonight he said approximately the same thing. He pointed out in quite clear terms that the aim of the Communist countries - I do not use the word Communist' in too dire a sense - is to encourage the presence of troops there. But he went further and said that if North Vietnam wanted American troops out tomorrow of course they could get American troops out tomorrow. The easiest thing North Vietnam could do is negotiate in Paris and get American troops out. The honourable member for Fremantle quite properly went on to point out that this is the least of their wishes. Anyone who is not naive from the ankles up knows very well that the spread of the Russian ideology or the Chinese ideology, thrives on disorders. 
I referred earlier to a speech made 5 years ago by the honourable member for Fremantle and I hope I paraphrased his second statement reasonably accurately. I, referred to his 2 statements because he is right. That is the important thing. Following on from that, the aim and attitude that should be adopted by this Government is precisely what it is doing now, and that is to try to scale down the number of our forces in Vietnam when the change to Vietnamisation means that they can maintain stability in their own country. Who are we to say,  Mr Chairman,  that this should not happen? I say - and I have absolutely no fear of refutation - that today the people of South Vietnam have discovered a self determination, an ethos, and a reason to exist of a much higher order than they have ever had in the past. To suggest that this should be undone is the greatest insolence and the greatest example of sheer arrogance that one could hear, and is an enormity. 
The Australian people have been renowned for many decades as being tolerant and open minded. They have absorbed views from this section and that section. But there is developing in our society today - I do not know whether I criticise the left wing of our society very much more than the right wing - a complete intolerance of the point of view of other persons and a complete determination to govern by means of startling headlines in the Press and by quoting the Press as the ultimate authority. How wrong the Press can be. In my opinion the Australian spirit of seeking proper understanding and properly backed views is diminishing. This is the tragedy of the world today. I would go so far as to say that in the left wing of our society today there are people who have virtually become bigots because they have closed their minds to other points of view. This is not a desirable attribute and it is not the attribute of Australians of the past. It is something to be deeply regretted. I welcome the views of people like the honourable member for Wills who joined me some time ago at the Salisbury Teachers College and stated what he honestly and sincerely believed. The fact that his view happened to be much the same as mine is not something for which I will criticise him and it is not something 1 will hold him to. I welcome the fact that someone - and there are only a few on both sides of the Parliament today - had the courage to stand and say what he thinks. Better still, these people have the courage to say what they think, based on an informed outlook. 
There is no doubt in my mind that militarily South Vietnam is in the ascendant. The morale of the South Vietnamese fighting troops is high and the morale of the people there is high. The magical thing, when one stops to consider the situation, is that a country at war can go so far along the path towards democracy, lt is insufferable to hear the bookworm geniuses who from time to time stand up and criticise South Vietnam, a nation at war, a nation which is facing tremendous problems, over its progress towards democracy. If any member of the Labor Party wishes to continue this debate I would like him to tell me of any other nation in Asia which is more democratic than South Vietnam is today. The fact is that he could not find such a country. The much vaunted Lee Kuan Yew in Singapore does not put up with opposition.  President  Thieu informed honourable members from all parties recently that he expected the An Quang Party to lead the state in the Senate election held recently in South Vietnam and that he felt it would be a good thing for the future of the country if this were so. One cannot wish for much better from South Vietnam, a country in a state of war and tremendous troubles, than the great progress made towards democracy in its society. I think the House should recognise this fact and give credit to the South Vietnamese. There is no shadow of doubt in my mind that this is a very vital thing. 
The honourable member for Fremantle also asked whether our policy is effective in changing the minds of men. In the 60 seconds remaining to me I would like to answer this question by reference to the Australian sphere of responsibility in Vietnam, Phuoc Tuy Province. We inherited in that Province one of the most difficult areas. It was one of the traditional Vietcong areas, the worst in Corps areas 1, 2, 3 or 4. 1 hope that the Government will not act lightly in cutting down the number of troops in that Province because we are about to mount there one of the finest examples of rural reform that I have seen in the area - and I have see a lot in many visits to South Vietnam in the past. If we are to have a chance of showing people that another method can produce far better results than they anticipated could be possible, then it is vital that we achieve some area of stability in Phuoc Tuy Province. The second part of our policy is to demonstrate to the people of South Vietnam that our civil aid can achieve progress second to none in that particular area of South East Asia. 
I find I am dragged to my feet tonight by a rather inconsistent series of remarks by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He has the unmitigated gall on the one hand with his mate, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  to preach to this country the necessity for breaking the law and in the same breath he rises in this House and goes over the increasing crime rates in this country for the last 4 to 5 years. I have never heard anything quite so inconsistent as this. It is really more than this nation should have to suffer. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yea.  I refer  to  page  1356  of Hansard of yesterday's date at which the remarks of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House are reported. In the middle tff a reference to me, the honourable member said: 
No-one admires a man who lies when that same liar masks himself as a decent man and in a loud voice proclaims- 
You,  Mr Speaker,  interrupted the honourable member at that point. You said: 
Order! Is the honourable member referring to the honourable member for Angas? 
The honourable member for Sturt said: 
No. As I was saying, no-one admires a man who lies when he masks himself as a decent man and in a loud voice proclaims that he is honest and that all who oppose him are fools 01 charlatans. 
For the sake of the record and because I believe that, in spite of the context, the honourable member for Sturt was not referring to me, I seek clarification, if 1 may, in relation to this matter from the honourable member for Sturt. 
Has the Minister for National Development noticed statistics suggesting the urgent need for natural gas to replace heavy fuel oils and dieselene in industry due to the high gravity of Australian crude oil? Is the Minister aware of the work done by  Mr Steele  Hall, when Premier of South Australia, to bring together parties interested in a supply of natural gas to New South Wales? Finally, is it correct that New South Wales and South Australia have reached agreement on a supply of natural gas to New South Wales subject only to a further - feasibility study on supply from the Gidgealpa and possibly the Mereenie fields? 
I intend to refer to the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise and the Department of Primary Industry. Before I do so I would like to comment that my friend the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  started his speech like the veritable prophet of doom and depressed everyone with the first part of his speech. However, towards the end of his speech he was back to his usual form like a little ray of sunshine and I was just waiting for him to pick the Australian Rules XVIII from Parliament House once again. As I go along I would like to refer to what was said by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  who referred to inflationary trends and the lack of real value in the currency as the problems of rural industries. Apart from that, I would like to say that I am becoming fed up with those people, not only on one side of the Parliament, who prophesy gloom and doom for primary industries. I . think everyone realises that a great metamorphosis - a great change in time and conditions - is going on. I do not really think that any honourable member would think that we should become so unduly self-centred, if I might use the phrase, in primary industries as to put ourselves in the same position as New Zealand which is our next door neighbour. This would not be proper thinking in the light of the development of the more sophisticated and industrial countries of our time. But this thinking draws in its wake ancillary matters that need thought. These are the very matters that I wish to refer to tonight. 1 do not think it is good enough to be wise in hindsight and say that the Government's policies have been wrong and that price support, subsidy schemes and all of these things are wrong - that the locusts have been eating the years. This is an academic problem that is of no consequence to us at this point of time. What is of consequence to us at the moment is to consider where we are in the world today and what are our problems in terms of surpluses, prices and costs. We have to decide what to do about al) areas of need in the Australian economy. A great deal of mention has been made about need in some sectors of the Australian economy and very little has been made about others. If I might put it another way, we bear endless debates in this place on social services, repatriation and wheat. 
We hear a great deal about wool, particularly between the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who sits next door to him. It goes on ad nauseam nearly every day. We hear a lot about these subjects but we should hear more about the many small industries of this country that have a high export component and which in their totality are extremely valuable to the economy of Australia. The ones I have in mind, probably because they are well represented in the electorate of Angas, are the smaller export industries, the citrus industry, the dried fruit industry and the canned fruit industry ,of which we hear no mention in this place. I add one more and that is, the wine industry, about which until recently we heard very little in this place. 
Might I refer to yesterday's Hansard? Those honourable members who have a copy will see a question on notice which was answered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  It is full of information for any honourable member who looks at it. The honourable member for Sturt is continuing to interject. If he will stop jabbering I will get on with my speech. The answer refers to Commonwealth payments to industry, not only primary industries but all industries. But the point I wish to take from it is that the total payments to rural industries amounted to $215,376,000. This has been taken by some honourable members as being a palliative and as being a method of directing our . resources in the wrong directions. This is not necessarily so. It is easy to be wise with hindsight and to say that it has . been , so, but it is not necessarily so. From my point of view, and from the point of view..of many economists, whether the honourable .member for Sturt knows about them or worries about them or not, there should be- 
The Vernon report gave the figure of $ 1,000m as the net subsidy equivalent to the manufacturing industries of Australia. Might I compare this with the figure I took from yesterday's Hansard of $2 15m in terms of payments to rural industries and might I compare this again with the take off by the Federal Government from tariff alone each year. It is more than $2 15m; it is something over $300m. In the scheme of things I do not complain about this. I think we are absolutely correct to promote the industries and to promote the capital flow into the industries that make us a great nation. I also say that not for much longer will we see subsidies on output for any industry producing surpluses, primary or otherwise, when we are incapable of selling the goods. But I do on the other hand see - I stand for it today and will own up to it for many years to come - in this area in the national good that there will be increased amounts of Government money used for re-structuring industry and for re-structuring debts, sometimes at manufacturing industry level and sometimes section 96 grants for specific purposes. But more importantly there will be subsidies on the inputs and the costs so that' the farming community can receive some small compensation for the load it has carried over the years - it is of no importance; it is just of historical interest - and the load that it will have to carry in the future if we are going to continue to look on primary industries as a source of important exports earning income for the good of this country. I hope that what I have said tonight has to son~ic people 3:n-,C form of perspective because T feel quite certain in my own mind that this is the sort of problem that we will have to face in times to come. 
Might I in passing refer to the speech made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and say that the most heartening thing I heard in his speech and the best part of his speech by far was the two-thirds of it dealing with the wool industry which, I think, was spot on. 
Secondly, the important point he made was that in future, rather than any juggling around supporting one industry to the detriment of another - I am thinking of primary industries here - and favouring this one but not that one, we should have in this country a rural industries board, a board set up peculiarly and particularly to advise governments on the importance of that sector and on the performance that the country expects from that sector. In that I am right in accord with the honourable member for Bradfield. I think he did a great service to this Parliament by again stressing this point of view. 1 have been led astray by the speeches of other honourable members but I rose tonight primarily to talk about the citrus industry. I now have 3 minutes left in which to do so. It is important to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  it is important, though one might not think so, to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  it is important to the honourable member for Mallee and it is important to myself. In 2 out of the last 3 years this industry has on average sold its produce under the cost of production. One might say: 'Why do we need such an industry?' lt is a valid question. I think the answer to it, frankly, is this: Sunkist oranges have a world demand and a world quality image today but there is one orange that runs it very close and twice in recent years has outsold it on overseas markets. That orange is stamped Riverland'. Unfortunately for the honourable member for Riverina those oranges do not come from the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area. Oranges from that area cannot quite match the quality of the oranges from the electorates of the honourable member for Mallee or myself, and there are numerous examples to prove what I have in mind. Perhaps when the trees in the Murrumbidgee area get a little older and the oranges a little rougher - and, indeed, when their Federal representative gets a little rougher - they might improve out of all knowledge. But the citrus industry is important from this point of view, and I would ask people before they criticise useless country industries as some are apt to do, to remember that it takes an orange tree-- 
 1 was not criticising the honourable member this time, lt takes an orange tree 10 to 13 years before it becomes productive. One does not turn them on and off like a factory; one has to plan, invest and hope that at the end of this time there is a sale for this sort of production. At this time in America a very high percentage - something like 85 per cent - of citrus products is sold in a processed form and not as fresh fruit. This trend is coming into Australia at a very rapid rate and the citrus fruit juice industry is only one portion of the total fruit juice industry. 

 Mr Foster - That does not- the  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-  Order! The honourable member for Sturt will cease interjecting. 
He worries rae not at all,  Mr Chairman,  but thank you for offering sympathy. At present we are in the middle of this trend in this industry. In the last 4 years juicing has doubled in the citrus industry. We are caught in this trend. For a period of what I would suspect would be 6 or 7 years out of the bearing time of 13 years there is a surplus of oranges, more markedly in the 2 areas to which I referred and which produce a top quality product. What do we do? Do we say that because oranges are in plentiful supply and the growers are not getting their cost of production we let an industry like this go to the wall, or do we use a bit of intelligence and say that this industry is a quality producer for Australia and has made its mark in the world's markets? Do we try, in some way, to help the industry until supply equates with demand? If we do not do this we will finish up with insufficient supply to cope with the demand inside 4 or 5 years. 
This is the problem. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  knows that with  Senator Laucke  and various leaders of the citrus industry I have for some time produced a series of possible plans to help the industry. I am hoping that one of these days we can get a plan that is acceptable to the industry. Some of the plans have not been acceptable to persons in the electorate of Robertson - growers from Gosford - because they have their own type of problem. The big problem that faces the citrus industry in Australia is that if something is not done the big supplies from my electorate will flood all markets and ruin all other producers. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will he provide details of the agreement which has been reached between the Commonwealth and the Government of New South Wales covering the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. 
I am rather dragged lo my feet by the mildly hysterical display we have just witnessed. I think probably it is just as well to get out of fiction and back to fact and deal with what the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  spurned and that is accurate figures. Let us be quite plain about this: I have not heard any mention by the Opposition that housing is a State responsibility. 1 know of no State government that would wish to deny that. It is a State responsibility. It is not ours. We have intruded into some fields at the request of the States. We have intruded into housing by providing some finance to the States, though most of the finance by far comes through the State savings banks and State sources of capital. Housing is a State responsibility. That is why when 1- 
 When you have finished jabbering I will continue. That is why when 1 was a member of a State Parliament - it would have done the honourable member for Sturt some good to have gone through that mill first - I was aware of governmental teams coming from Victoria and from New South Wales to see the housing system in South Australia which was set up by  Sir Thomas  Playford. In case the honourable member for Sturt has not heard of it, it is called the South Australian Housing Trust. In its day - I believe it still is - it was the biggest breakthrough in housing for wage earners and those who were not in fortunate circumstances. If it has a fault the fault is that it tends to take over too much from private enterprise. Perhaps those on the Opposition benches may not agree with me but the fact is that private enterprise in the field of housing in South Australia does not have the implication that it does have in other States. The Trust was created not by a Federal Labor Party, not by a Federal Liberal Party or Federal Country Party coalition, but  by  a State Liberal Party and by a very great and a very far sighted State Premier. This housing scheme in South Australia was necessary because the finances of every person in that State were affected by the fact that the cost of living there was considerably below that of other States. This held true until about 4 years ago when unfortunately the cost structure in that State got slightly out of plumb for political reasons. I will not elaborate upon them because I think that most honourable members can accurately recall who was in power there 4 years ago. 
I really wish to take up the wildly erratic insinuations that the honourable member for Sturt cast. If he has a look at tha Housing Quarterly' which has just been released today - I presume he has had an opportunity to look at it - he will find that the Australia-wide increase for the March quarter was 3 per cent for new houses and 18 per cent for flats. In the June quarter houses were down 7 per cent and flats were down 16 per cent throughout Australia. If he has a look at the South Australian figures- 
It does not, no. But he should look at the South Australian figures. The honourable member for Sturt referred, if my memory serves me correctly, to a statement made by a representative of the building trade in South Australia, who said that the figures in that State were below the 1961 figures. Let us have a look at this. Contrary to those figures I read out, for the June quarter in South Australia there was an increase of fairly considerable proportions. It was an increase of 7 per cent for houses, which was about the general Australian average in the March quarter, and 81 per cent for flats, which is well ahead of the Australian general figure. In the June quarter, instead of the minus figures which I gave, according to the latest figures available houses were up 7 per cent and flats were up 32 per cent. In view of that, it is quite wrong and quite irresponsible to quote people who say that the building industry in South Australia is not improving. I would like to follow this a little further. Commencements in the June quarter were 5 per cent greater than in the March quarter, and 18 per cent above the level for the June quarter of 1969. indicating 
On the contrary. The Labor Government, of course, has not been in office in South Australia long enough to make one ounce of difference. The fact is that a Liberal government - I thank the honourable member for interjecting - has put up a first class record in that State in a field that is a State responsibility, not a Federal one. 
The honourable member for Sturt suggested that come the golden era, as he no doubt sees it, when all sorts of wild contentions that an Opposition can put forward can be tested in the light of the then exising situation - if we can imagine such a state of affairs - cheaper finance would be available. But, of course, the honourable member completely overlooks the implications of the Government's monetary policy. This would not be cheaper finance; it would be worth a lot less. This is the lesson to be learned from the Budget and the state of the economy at the moment. It is quite futile to say: 'When we get into power we will provide housing finance at 0.5 per cent interest' because this implies a certain state of liquidity in the economy. If the honourable member wants to kid people that such finance would be worth anything in those circumstances he wants to think again. 
There is one other remark made by the honourable member to which I would like to reply. I refer to his contention that only 15 minutes is allowed to each honourable member to debate housing. We are now dealing with the estimates for the Department of Housing. He would be well aware that with the co-operation of the Opposition Whip we have come to a proper programme in which we have allowed about  52i  hours to debate the Estimates. This is considerably more than the time taken to debate the Estimates last year. There will be other opportunities for the most loquacious member in the Parliament to speak on housing, whether on the adjournment or during debates on housing legislation. We are meant to be debating estimates of expenditure. Honourable members on this side are happy with the Budget in total and perhaps we are not so concerned to make statements that will not bear scrutiny. For heavens sake, if we are to make statements on housing or anything else we should base them on the latest statistics. We should then inquire of the States, which have the responsibility for housing, whether they want the Federal Government to take over this responsibility. 
I have not found myself so much in agreement with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  before. I do not alter the remarks that J made on this subject during the Budget debate. The effect of this excise on the industry is out of all proportion to the amount of revenue that can be raised from it. The maximum that can be raised, if my memory serves me rightly, is $ 15.2m in 1 year. I go a long way with the honourable member for Riverina when he says that it is quite a ridiculous situation to risk a viable industry by putting it in jeopardy or in need of tariff protection against imports. I am always unhappy if I have to be rude to the honourable member for Riverina and 1 do not intend to be rude tonight. But I do think there are other aspects of his remarks which, despite my general agreement, I must try to correct. First of all, this tax has been levied by way of excise. This has been spelt out previously by me and other honourable members. The effect of this excise is a tax on quantity so that the higher priced wines - a champagne, an old burgundy or a claret - are taxed precisely the same per volume as are the cheap, big selling wines such as sweet and medium sherries, muscats, ports and other types of lesser quality wines. 
So the question we must ask ourselves is: If this excise on the wine industry is to detract from sales, allowing for a protection to growers, which wines will it affect? The answer is that a tax at the rate of 5 per cent on champagnes and expensive clarets and burgundies will not affect the sales of those types of wines. But 38 per cent tax on sweet sherries in flagons, medium sherries, muscats and ports, could very well affect their sales. If it does what type of grapes will be hard to sell? The answer is - I have not personally been involved in growing grapes for a good many years - that it will affect the palominos, pedro zimines, gordos, sultanas, grenache and those types of grapes that on the whole make the cheaper wines sold in flagons in Australia today. If it does affect these sorts of grapes what areas will it affect? It certainly will not affect McLaren Vale in my State; it certainly will not affect the Barossa Valley; it certainly will not affect Tea Tree Gully; and it certainly will not affect the Hunter River. The irrigation areas that grow the grapes at high bearing capacity to which I have referred are the areas of the honourable member for Riverina and myself in the Upper Murray because these are the areas that supply the bulk wines to the industry in Australia. Demand will always exist in dry areas but not necessarily in irrigation areas. 
There are many wines in the dining room that carry as an ingredient wine from my Upper Murray electorate. Any worthwhile Sydney brand one can lay one's hands on, apart from special bins produced in special areas of New South Wales, is in one degree or another made from the irrigated juice that comes from my area and, 1 suppose, to a marginally important degree, from the area of my friend, the honourable member for Riverina - to an infinitesimal degree. But these are the areas that are supplying not only bulk wines of this nature but also the spirit for the entire brandy production. For instance, I believe it is true to say there is one name area in Australia that produces quality wines for sale to the brandy trade, but the fact is that there is not one bottle or vat of brandy made in this area. In that case all of the brandy is taken from my electorate and sold under another label. So far what have we said? We have said that if there is a decrease in sales what area will it affect? If there is a decrease in sales what grapes will it affect? If there is a decrease in sales what are we to do about it? The honourable member for Riverina in his erudite fashion tonight pointed out all sorts of unusual things. For instance, he pointed out that some important wines with exotic labels catch peoples eyes and get their support. 
I was thinking of politicians, ls this your forte? ls this how you operate? 1 can see the distinct resemblance between the exotic label and the colour of the honourable member's shirt, as though it were dyed in wine. He also said that it came as a great shock to the wine industry when this excise was applied. My foot it did! My memory is a little bit longer than that of the honourable member for Riverina. It goes back 3 years to a time when a member of this House debated whether there should be an excise on table wines. I very well remember that about H pages of Hansard consisted solely of a running tirade between me and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  or, as he then was, the honourable member for Yarra. For some reason or other it seemed that he did not want my remarks to get into Hansard. All I was trying to do was protect the wine industry and point out the facts of life - the fact that beer is made of water, which even in South. Australia is not that expensive yet; barley, which has not exactly gone up in price or for which there has not been a much higher demand; and sugar, which we know the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  is trying to sell to Australian industry. The beer industry is paying $1.2m per day to Federal coffers whereas prior to this excise the drinkers of champagne, clarets and other wines were paying nothing. How very well they played their cards. It was this sort of exercise I was trying to do - to point out that the people growing the grapes have to find a market for them. Until 3 years ago in my State the growers could not do so. Around the corner we have a two-fifths greater yield of grapes coming into bearing. What will happen? 7here is no doubt that when small growers from your area and my area cannot place their grapes they will blame the Federal Government's excise on wine. It is axiomatic, but it is unjustifiable. I think I made the point some time ago when I was on my feet that I would not hold myself responsible if a surplus existed that had nothing to do with the application of an excise on wines. I stick to that. If, allowing for a growth factor, wine grapes cannot be easily placed and if, according to statistics, the excise has not altered the sales volume of wine, then the Government's action on excise has not been responsible for that state of affairs. I think L made this very plain a little while ago. But the point 1 am leading up to is this: Running right through my speech up to this point and through the whole of the speech of the honourable member for Riverina are phrases like 'if this', 'if that', 'if it hits this area', 'if there is a decrease in sales'. Let us be quite plain about this. All of us up to this point of time are procrastinating, making up theories, crying hysterical woes and being prophets of doom. We do not know whether the Government's action will decrease sales or not. 
I thought it was a little unfair of the honourable member for Riverina to suggest to me that I should take rapid action before the industry falls into disarray. Nobody can tell at this time what effect the legislation now before us will have. I will continue with the 'if theme, but let us be quite certain that we should recognise it for what it is. 1. am theorising and I will say this: If there is a reduction in sales, allowing for the growth of the industry, one thing I would ask the Government to do immediately is to look into the alternative of sales tax. 1 have already described to the House how there can be an increase of the order of 38 per cent in some instances in the case of low priced wines and how in the case of champagnes the figure may be 5 per cent. I am quite certain that many people in the wine industry realise this very well and realise that high priced wines are well and truly in their top income earning bracket. 
But I pointed out also in my following of the 'if theme, in my theorising, that the first areas to be hit will be the area of the honourable member for Riverina and that of the honourable member for Angas in the Murray Valley. If this is to be so - and again we get the ubiquitous 'if - then there is a good deal of justice in applying a sales tax in an ad valorem fashion. In other words, it is applied to the value of the wine. It then does not hit the big bulk suppliers to 7 times the extent that it hits the champagne suppliers. It is applied across the board to the value of the wine. It may be more expensive to collect it. It may be necessary to collect it from many retail outlets. But it would also have in its favour the fact that it would be applied to the Australian product at the same level or at the same stage as it would be applied to the imported wine, and that is not the case at present. 
I am not at this time saying that the Government must do this or it must do that. Only time can tell whether this excise will make even one ounce of difference to sales. We will not be able to tell this until the second half of the next financial year and only an idiot would get up at this time and say that the Government has taken an action that will disadvantage a viable industry. Nobody knows. We can have forebodings but until we get a look at accurate statistics we cannot know the actual effect, In this connection T suggest also that the Australian Labor Party should have had a look at the statistics regarding Chowilla and Dartmouth, but it did not go into the matter in sufficient depth and merely played cheap political politics on that issue. If we want to make a case we should wait until we have the full facts accurately set out and then go to the Minister and say: 'Here are the facts, what will we do about it?' There is not a great deal of use just getting up and making noise for the sake of noise. 
These are my most sincere and most deeply held feelings on this topic. I have fears just as any other honourable member has, but only time can tell whether the demand for wines in this country has become so cemented as a trend that it will continue to grow. Cigarette smoking has continued to increase even in the face of medical opinion that it is injurious to health. Is there a decrease in the sales of cigarettes when the excise on them is increased? Is there a decrease in the use of petrol when excise on that commodity is increased? Do any more people travel into the capital cities by public transport? I can think of innumerable cases of children of my friends who will not go to work in the capital cities unless they have a car or have a parent to drive them to work. How cheap are these luxuries and what attitude should one take on them? 
I will finish up,  Mr Speaker,  by making one point that is not generally recognised. It is not the industry that bears the cost of excise. Very rarely is it borne by an industry and certainly not in the examples I have just given. It is the consumer who bears the cost. Take the case of a man with a 25-acre vineyard from which he takes 100 tons of grapes for wine and 60 tons for spirits. On a rough calculation he will get a return of $9,600 from that crop and the Government will take $2,400. Let nobody run away with the idea that the wine industry or indeed the grower will carry that load unless sales are depreciated through the Government's action. It is the consumer who carries the load. The consumer is paying for the increase in cost if sales remain at the same level as before. This is the case whether the excise is on petrol, tobacco or on anything else. If the commodity concerned is not one of the essentials of life but is a pleasant luxury then the consumer will pay if he wants that commodity. I hope that my protestations bear fruit and that the prophets of doom will be found to have been wrong. If they are not they will number me among their friends. 
My question to the Minister for Labour and National Service is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Denison. Is the Minister aware that a motion of no confidence is to be moved against the Minister of Labour and Industry in South Australia because of his action in attempting to deny job opportunities to nonunionists? Can the Minister perceive any consistency whatsoever between this action of a Labor Party Minister in South Australia and the Australian Labor Party's thinking on other matters of conscience s expressed in this House? 
In the brief time at my disposal 1 wish, first of all, for about 2 minutes, to try to answer the contentions - I think that is as high as I can put them - of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  The best way I can do this is lo say, firstly, that I was not invited to the rally - I presume, possibly, because he organised it; secondly, that if he did organise it he is not a very good organiser; and, thirdly, that I spoke to  Mr Hudson,  who is the norminal organiser, the night before. Of course, he lives a long way out and quite plainly he was relying on people who live closer in to do a lot of the organising. The point I want to make is that the large South Australian delegation of 3 - not 2, as is commonly supposed - came over the night before. I read their remarks from the Adelaide Advertiser. They said that they came to Canberra the night before to 'sniff the political breeze'. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  is interjecting. I do not think they sniffed him, so he should not get excited. They continued: 
We came here with an open mind, but after careful consideration we came to the conclusion at 9 o'clock this morning that the rally was not for us. 
That was a Press statement. It was put in moderate language. 
It was put in moderate language. I know very well the language that they use when talking to me. Perhaps it would not have done the Adelaide 'Advertiser' much credit if it had publicised that. This is what happened to a rally that was organised as a political stunt. It is of no use for the honourable member for Riverina to stand up and say, with his hand over his heart: 'I went out and stood with these sincere farmers'. They probably are sincere. But if the honourable member for Riverina had anything to do with the organisation of the rally, one can depend on its having had a certain amount of hokey-pokey about it. That was the attitude of the South Australian members. 
It was not a debate. 
I hope that the Opposition will not get too fearful and continue to take points of order because if it does I will take the view that it is frightened of hearing what I am about to say. The point I got up to make tonight arises from a question that was disallowed, with respect, by the Chair at question time. The question was aimed at dealing with the complete inconsistency on the part of the Labor Party which, on the ohe hand, takes a great interest in the matter of conscientious objection in relation to national service and, on the other hand, in one State anyway, shows a complete disregard for the private liberties of an individual. May I just prove the point? 
Today in the South Australian Parliament a censure motion was moved against the Minister of Roads and Transport for taking action to force compulsory unionism in South Australia. An amendment was moved by, I think, the Premier, or by someone in the Government, saying that ;n the opinion of the House support should be given to the Government's policy of employment preference to unionists. We have had preference to unionists in South Australia and everywhere else for a long time, and I for one am open minded enough on this question to say that T think there is some merit in that stand. But this is not what has occurred in the last week in South Australia. The Minister of Roads and Transport.  Mr G.  T. Virgo, has given 2 directions which are today public knowledge. It is no use people saying that they are incorrect. They are in public view in South Australia at this point of time for people to look at. 
The first was a letter to his own Department, the Highways Department, saying that in order to avoid the difficulties of employing non-unionists and in order to avoid the difficulty of direct contact in each instance with people who may or may not be unionists, he would like to arrange to appoint a liaison officer - and I notice that the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia referred to this officer as a political commissar, with some merit, 1 thought - whom unionists can contact should difficulties arise. He was dealing in this letter with workers on the job and also with those applying for a job. However, that is not so important as the next sentence. The next sentence is literally, I think, correct, lt is:  lt is my intention that such an officer would contact the employee concerned and offer him' the necessary motivation lo join the union by way of ultimatum. 
Taking into account that it is ungrammatical - and there is the double use of a word with the second one slightly more onerous in its emphasis than the first - this is a matter to which one can justly object. The letter is signed by 'GTV, Minister of Roads and Transport'. 
I will not worry the House tonight with the second letter, which is also public property. But this was the key to the problem involved. The principle of obligatory unionism contrasts strongly with the principle enunciated by the Federal Opposition Leader  (Mr Whitlam)  when recently he counselled national servicemen to refuse to serve in Vietnam. He said that a young man should obey the Jaw only as far and as long as his conscience allowed. The analogy between compulsory unionism and compulsory military service is close. The principle involved is the same in each. In the unions membership is not only to be mandatory, but once a man is enrolled he is to be tied to union decisions. He will not be able to elect not to join a strike to which he objects. He will not be be able to opt out of a strike, for instance, as a national serviceman may opt out of service in Vietnam. It is a sheer lack of consistency, lt is the hypocrisy of members ot a part)' who have their policy dictated to them by people not elected by the Australian people that makes a farce of this situation. It is farcical for honourable members opposite to act as minions obeying the dictates of people who are not elected. They are slaves to their own system. They have no sincerity and no possibility of saying in this House the things they really believe. What happens to individual liberties under a system like that, which has no provision at all for individual liberties? 
I stand for individual liberties in one degree or another. 
The honourable member can say what he likes. I believe that national interests have to be taken into account. The sheer inconsistency of the policy of honourable members opposite should be made plain to the people of Australia. In the name of morality they do not have the right to go around Australia saying that they are the upholders of the rights of individuals in this country. Their own actions prove that to be incorrect and insincere. 
Evidently there are some localised problems that affect some of the speakers we have heard debate this matter today. However, I want to confine my remarks to the proposal for discussion which is: 
The failure of the Federal Government to take positive action to halt the seriously deteriorating condition of Australia's export meat trade with the United States. 
In my State all meat works can export iamb anywhere, can export beef anywhere and can export mutton anywhere except to the United States of America. So I must refute the terms of the Opposition's contention in its entirety from my point of view and from the point of view of my State. I have had the chance during the last hour of ringing a representative of the growers' organisations in my State, a stock firm and 3 meat works representatives. In every case they were horrified to hear the terms of the proposal by the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  today. They were unanimous in saying that the problem was one of management, of union attitudes and of seasonal and structural problems. 
Let me deal with them in order. In many southern States today they are in the middle of a spring rush of lamb, beef and mutton coming through their abattoirs. Frankly, many abattoirs are not interested in an American licence for the time being. The reason for this is the hands-off provision in the American regulations in terms of the killing line. At the Adelaide abattoirs, the principal meat works in my State, today they are putting through 78 sheep per run. I am not certain of the time per run, so let us say 78 per unit of time. At Cannon Hill under the 'hands-off' technique they are putting through 64. It is for this reason, in the middle of a spring rush, that they are not all that concerned at the present about the immediate granting of an American export licence, particularly if one remembers where they can export to and what they can export from that State at present. 
I mention briefly the main problem apart from structural alterations. This problem concerns the manual handling in the killing line of animals in terms of the passing on of the disease cheesy gland. The reasons why the Americans want a knife-on' and hands-off method of killing is to stop the transfer of cheesy gland, lt is as simple as that. In Australia if you want export licences you put through fewer sheep per run. We apply, and if the structural situation is readily acceptable, as I gather it is in my State, there is no difficulty. I refer briefly to the unions. The unions in South Australia are unique. We have a situation where slaughtermen are prepared to work  7  days a week during  the  glut. I commend them for this responsible attitude to the farmers' problem of getting stock through the abattoirs in spring. I hope that producers generally recognise this form of co-operation. I would like to go on record as saying that. 
The next problem that one must remember, if one agrees with the Opposition's proposal whose terms I have read out, is that there are new negotiations for increased rates for a hands-off killing technique and there is one, at any rate, meat works in my State that does anticipate a small degree of a problem in negotiation on rates of killing on a changeover from a hands-on to a hands-off method of killing to meet the American specifications. I quote from  1  State, New South Wales. At  7.30  this morning the Gosford meat works started killing for American export. It took them 6 weeks from the time management wished to start killing for export until a start was actually made at  7.30  this morning. I do not suppose the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  knows any more about the Gosford killing works than he does about the citrus industry in his electorate. However, that is another aspect that one must keep in mind. It seems to me that in many areas of Australia when the management of a killing works wants some action in relation to an American licence it can get that action, all other things being equal. I feel sorry for my friend from Braddon  (Mr Davies)  because evidently there is a local problem in his electorate and I am not at all competent to make any comment on that. But I am competent to say - and I have checked my information pretty fully - that the Government's role in this field of meat export is that of an inspection service and of undertaking international negotiations. Basically, Australia is a ready seller and America, subject to the conditions it lays down, is a willing buyer. I do not believe that extravagant remarks such as accusations about rats in killing works in America, which were expressed by  1  Opposition speaker, and other highly exaggerated statements will help in our relations with America, to which country it is essential that our primary producers continue to sell their meat. 
Motion (by  Mr Nixon)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
1 address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Were Cambodian students recently in Australia as a group given help under the aegis of the Department of External Affairs? Is the  President  of the Cambodian Senate about to lead a similar delegation to Australia? Will the Minister do all possible to ensure that the plight of the Cambodian people as suggested by these 2 groups is given as much public mass media display as possible - I think rather in contradistinction to what happened when the first group was here? 
I cannot speak on a point of order so I shall take my part in the second reading debate. My memory is quite clear that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  condemned the Government for the amount of money that he said it handed out to rural industries. It was essentially on that point that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  took him up tonight, and on no other point. I think that needs to be recorded here and now. Tomorrow's Hansard will bear witness to it. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)- All right; I will make a further personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Third Reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  read a third time. 
I intend to take the advice of my friend the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and not go back to those days of Prime Minister Curtin. I wish to keep my remarks much more up to date than that and deal only with people like his leader and some of his policy statements. But before I do I would like to point out that the current Government defence policy was spelt out very clearly in the defence statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in 1969. In regard to this statement people like Denis Warner, for whom I think members on both sides of the House have a great deal of regard, had this to say: 
. not a matter of kow-towing to big nations or anything else. The new look . . . 
Australia has made a unilateral decision to help the stability and economic growth of those areas. 
Defence - the Australian Way - Forces of friendship. 
Those were the comments of a highly informed man such as Denis Warner in those times, and since those days the recent 1970 statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been along the same lines. The pity of it, from our point of view, is that we have not had a chance to take on the Opposition on that statement. It is a very good statement indeed. I would like to put to members of the Opposition a little problem because it rather intrigues me. Not long ago, just prior to the last House of Representatives election, a television interview took place and this question was asked: 
Could I ask you about Vietnam? Will the Labor Party advocate the recalling of Australian troops from Vietnam? 
The answer given was: 
No. The only way the troops can come back now is if there is a settlement - if there is an armistice. One would hope that by the time the next House of Representatives election comes around there certainly will have been that. 
That,  Sir, is  not the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  nor the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  nor the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  nor the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  - he might blush to be named in such a list of Opposition hierarchy - but the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the Leader of the Labor Party at present who made that statement. Where is the policy of the Opposition if it has one? We have heard the statement made to the Fabian Society by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in which he spoke of the paradox of the socialist time and day and how we cannot possibly equate it with a defence programme. We have heard the remarks of members of the Opposition made at the bikini conference when they went up and took a bit of sun in midwinter and became the laughing stock of the Australian people. We have heard the Leader of the Opposition answer that sort of question on the television programme. Let me read the next question: 
Are you in favour of Australian troops being in Vietnam now? 

 Mr Whitlam answered: 
They are now committed. There is no question about this.  1 am glad they are committed. But what on earth is the same man saying today, or is there noi an election round the corner? Is that the reason? When this statement was made it was just prior to an election and that was a case of the cheapest bit of political expediency based on lack of principle that I have heard for some time. Let us go on to the next question. It was: 
Would you withdraw Australian troops from Vietnam now? 
He said: 
No, but this is sn academic question now. 
He was saying, in effect: 'We will have to wait and see what happens prior to the next Federal election'. 
Yes, worrying about political expediency. The only thing that dictated the defence policy of the Opposition was: 'When will the next election be held? You tell me that and then perhaps I can afford to spell it out a little more clearly.' Principle? I have never heard such disregard of principle in my life. The honourable member for Sturt also said that the Government's thinking is outmoded, that we have to equate with the times. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has, unfortunately, not been able to equate with the times since he had an unfortunate experience as an ex-serviceman, so we will leave it at that. But if I might get back to the point of view of the Labor Party, what did a man named  Dr Evatt  say about 22 years ago? I will tell you. He said: 
Australia's true role in South East Asia will not be helped but obstructed by the present proposal to send our armed forces to Malaya, either for garrison duty or to take part in jungle fighting. This will lead only to acute misunderstanding between the Asian peoples in Malaya and Australia. 
They have not changed. The Opposition's policy has not changed, lt is the same doctrinaire mass of cliches, mass of words as was heard in the television programme 1 have just referred to - words, not policy. Furthermore, the Opposition's policy has stagnated from that day to this. The Opposition is still saying precisely the same thing. Why are members of the Opposition saying precisely the same thing? ft is because this is very much the point of this particular debate. Our policy on defence and on economic development for developing countries is clear. The people of Australia know what it is. I have given honourable members opposite just 1 or 2 examples tonight to show the complete prevarication on which their own stand is based, lt is all based on the proposition 'We are in opposition and will try to strike a cheap political chord and hope that by some such method of scuffling we can finish up in government one of these days', lt is lack of principle and lack of guts and it is not a great credit to the Opposition at all. 
The only other thing I want to say to finish up - this will be the third and the last point - is that the honourable member for Sturt and many people on the other side of the House take pride in being behind the Moratorium today. Now, I ask quite objectively: What is the Moratorium trying to achieve now? I could see, trying to be as unbiassed and reasonable as possible 
 At least I am not anywhere near as bigoted as the honourable member for Sturt. But if I might say this, a year ago one could see perhaps some semblance of sense in the Moratorium. One could see perhaps the Vietnam situation not being quickly remedied. We could not see very much hope perhaps at that time in the people of Vietnam being literally capable of taking up the cudgels and fifixing the situation for themselves, and if they could not fix it for themselves, of course nobody else could. But today we are on the threshold of success in that country. Of all the times for the Labor Party to be or not to be- we are never quite certain about this-behind the Moratorium, of all the times for it to happen, it has to be now. This is the psychological moment when the Vietnamese people, mainly due to their own efforts and mainly due to their own casualties which have been at twice the rate of those of any other troops in that country, are about to deal successfully with the situation. Yet we have the stupid, asinine, childish situation of people who are supposed to be grown up trying, with no grounds based on commonsense at all at this time, to produce a situation whereby the people of South Vietnam will not be able to look after their own freedom and their own right of independence. I regard this as a cheap, rotten trick. 
There will be people with small countries in the years to come. If honourable members opposite do not like it they should think back to the United Nations statement on Korea when Russia had let its union dues go down the drain. What did the United Nations do? It said that the free nations should go into South Korea. If this is a different situation to South Vietnam I would like to hear it This was the first time that China showed its hand at all. I have never heard so much nonsense as we hear from people who will not compare a United Nations decision to send troops into a small nation struggling for its independence, and the present position in Vietnam. The position that the Opposition has got itself into today is reprehensible, lacking in principle and not in the best Australian traditions of looking after the small bloke. 
 I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is there any protection for political parties under the Electoral Act when a candidate for a Senate election becomes associated with a breakaway group? I ask this question with compassion, as  Senator Brown,  an Australian Labor Party candidate, appears to be inextricably involved in a Victorian breakaway meeting to be held in Melbourne shortly. 
I address, to the Minister for Primary Industry a question concerning the Rural Reconstruction Board. Firstly, can the Minister inform the Australian farming community how soon it may be able to expect assistance from the Rural Reconstruction Board? Secondly, has complete agreement been' reached with the States as  10  the relationship between grants and loan funds to be used? Thirdly, if complementary legislation is necessary, when can the House expect such legislation to be placed before it? 
1 address my question to the Minister for National Development, ls it a fact that the design establishment of Dartmouth Dam is now - held up? What is the reason for this cessation of work which, when completed, will lift the South Australian entitlement of  water by the enormous amount of 0.25 million acre feet? What can be suggest to resolve this impasse which is supported by ignorance and by the Opposition in this House and which could have tragic consequences for South Australia, particularly during a series of dry years?. 
I welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate on the amendment which has been moved to the motion relating to the excellent and concise statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  regarding his action to deal with the state of inflation which, it is apparent to all, presently exists in some quarters of the economy. The Government has accepted this amendment as a motion of no confidence, and today we have listened to the Opposition attempting to make a case. I think that right from the very first speech that was delivered it was apparent that the whole effort would fizzle. 
The first speech made no impact, it was not good economics as, of course, the second speech was. Indeed, the first speech seemed to be an attempt to set a pattern for some future hypothetical situation that nobody can quite understanad. Throughout the day we have heard a procession of speeches, one or two of which I thought were very good. I can even think of one from the Opposition side, but I will not mention the honourable member who made it because he is young enough for his head to swell. Where his speech was of value was that it completely supported the type of action which the Government is taking at this point of time. It was probably no coincidence that this person happened to be well versed in economics. 
By and large the rest of the speeches from the Opposition were highly artificial in regard to the information which the speakers were attempting to give. We have had the ludicrous situation, to which I should like to refer in greater detail later, of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  pretending that he went to his electorate and asked why his constituents felt there was any increase in costs. This just shows how dissociated and divorced he is from his rural electorate because there is absolutely no question that the straight answer he would have received was that wages were going up too fast and too often. All I can say is that the honourable member did not tap his own electorate or he is totally divorced from the interests of his contituents 
I would suggest that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  should take note of one or two matters in order to achieve a balance. All honourable members know that he feels sincerely about some of the matters to which he referred but let me tell him that only last week I found, in my electorate, a postmaster complaining that the increase in his salary was, in his opinion, too high. I never thought I would live to hear the day when a man would make such an assertion. It is easy for people whose mouths are bigger than their minds to express derision. When 1 asked the man why he felt this way he pointed out that the rate of increase in wages in some sectors of the economy was not giving the people he serviced as postmaster a fair opportunity and a fair slice of the national cake. That man lives very close to the electorate of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  He had a conscience - unlike one or two honourable members whom 1 should like to take on in a minute - and had guts enough to say what he believed. He was not caught in the selfish scramble, based on materialism, for higher and higher wages. He realised that although he was in a senior position there were people around him who were not getting the same sort of go as he did. 
I make one more comment on this incident which does not necessarily suit my case, but I think it is important to be open and honest about these things. The postmaster pointed out that all his life he had struggled for an adequate wage on which to maintain his family. He is now nearing 55 years of age and he has more money than he can conveniently use. He thought that situation was wrong. He suggested also that there was something wrong with the pressure exerted by unions and union leaders that brought about this situation. 
Only 2 days ago i was talking to a workman from Chrysler Aust. Ltd whose wage had doubled in 3i years. The next day a Commonwealth driver in South Australia informed me that his wage had doubled in 4 years. I am not suggesting that these 2 examples mean the ultimate: 1 am saying that the average person in Australia today is much better off then he ever has been in his capacity to acquire commodities, consumer goods and enjoy the services provided by a government which has some thought for all sections of the community. It is not, as the honourable member for Reid described it last session, a sectional government which aims only to help rich rural producers. That is something that I will not forgive or forget the honourable member for Reid for saying. A quick look at the current income tax laws will soon show who has the capacity to pay income tax this year and who has not. 
The honourable member for Reid spoke of profits. Of course, he has an obsession about anyone who makes a profit. He has never quite been able to absorb the fact that nobody goes into business unless he can make a profit. People make profits in a variety of ways, but generally not in the way in which the honourable member for Reid usually makes his profits. 
 That is right. Another honourable member opposite, who spoke briefly, criticised the Broken Hill Pty Company Limited. Probably no other company in Australia has more shares owned by the general public. Members of the Opposition might say - J do not know - that it is wrong for anyone to own BHP shares. The company's net profit for the last year was  S60.5m,  and its wages bill for 54,000 employees was  $222,270,000.  I am very grateful to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  for supplying me with these remarkably accurate statistics. Is the rate of profit too high in relation to the number of people employed and in relation to the wages paid? The company has to pay payroll tax, workers compensation and a 6 per cent wage rise. The actual amount will be much higher, but 6 per cent of the wages bill amounts to $14m. The Broken Hill Pty Company Limited has to find that amount in one year. 
Money does not grow on bushes, although I could be forgiven for thinking that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is interjecting, thinks so on occasions. That money has to be found. It will be found by increasing the prices of the commodities produced by BHP or by reducing the interest paid to its shareholders, many of whom are Australians. Probably the honourable member for Sturt owns some shares in that company.  His  shareholding will not be able to absorb that kind of increase. Surely it is obvious that any exercise which tries to encourage investment into a profitable enterprise in this country is in the nation's good. By and large, the industry does not require heavy tariff protection for the commodities it produces. The industry is an economic one, with a high export component. The Labor Party looks on it as a great black bear that frightens it and as something that will distract from its power or from the power of the unions. That is the impression that I have gained from listening to honourable members opposite. 
As honourable members travel in their electorates they should look at the plight of local government and see what it had to find in wages last year and what it will have to find to pay the 6 per cent increase. For instance the local council at Loxton in my State, which is in the Mallee area - the Mallee has had 3 years drought out of 4 years - will have to find $10,000 extra. The honourable member for Sturt should not treat this matter lightly. The matter is a serious one. Where will that Council raise the extra $10,000? It cannot raise the money from the farmers; they have been broke for almost 4 years. 
You can continue in your youthful ignorance. 
I shall withdraw that remark. 
I am sorry,  Mr Speaker.  Some people in their youthful ignorance, have not talked to members of State governments. When they do, if they grow up enough to do so, they will find that no State government wants the Commonwealth to take over the responsibility or the control of local government. Another brief example of the effect of the 6 per cent increase on wages bills is the effect on the Postmaster-General's Department. This year that Department will have to find an extra $34m. How will it do that? 
That is a facetious suggestion, which is no better than any that we have heard today. 
I am sorry that a member of the Labor Party front bench has tried to deprive me of the short time that is available to me to wind up this speech. There is no question that all day not one point of any consequence has been made by members of the Opposition. From the time when the Prime Minister made his speech - which was, I think, clearly the greatest speech he has made in this House - there was no case to be made. The Opposition failed to appreciate in what areas the Government was tackling this problem or else it conveniently forgot. 
I would like to finish my speech in exactly the same way in which I started some time ago. The Opposition's motion of no confidence has been a fizzle from the word go. This has been an anaemic effort by an Opposition which is not uniform in its thinking. There is no question that the amendment wm be rejected by the House. This will be the result because so many of the arguments used during the day have been frivolous and in some cases unworthy of the people who made them. The amendment will be rejected for another reason. The people of Australia know very well that if a government sees a situation coming and is prepared to act with a bit of courage and economic sense they will back it. However, the people will not back a party whose whole attitude is one that would encourage an increase in prices and an increase in inflation which is the very subject which is under discussion today. 1 reject most wholeheartedly the Opposition's amendment. 
I wish to associate myself with the remarks of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I also have been involved with the Sunraysia District Council of the Australian Dried Fruits Association in supporting its case for a better quality of broadcast signal from the Australian Broadcasting Commission's transmitters in the district of Mildura. As the honourable member for Mallee has probably already told the House, at present the signal comes either from Horsham, which is some distance away from the Sunraysia district, including Mildura, or from Renmark, lt has been well known for a good many years that the signal coming from Renmark is of very low power. Even in South Australia people wishing to listen to the local ABC station have had a lot of trouble over a period of years. But this is not of great consequence to South Australia. It is of much greater consequence to the people of the Sunraysia district who wish to listen to the local ABC news. 
There is a reason why they should at present tend to favour the Renmark station over the Horsham station. This  is  because of the community of interest between such people as the honourable member for Mallee and myself, and of course the people in our electorates. There is a distinct uniformity in the types of agriculture and environmental and climatic conditions in both Riverland and Sunraysia. Frost warnings and notifications of urgent public matters are of concern to both areas. The proposal to increase the power output of the Renmark broadcasting station might therefore be more attractive than' a proposal to increase the power at the Horsham station, with consequent programming complications. However, my understanding at this point of time is that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, while it may have been helpful, does not "intend to recommend that the quality of the radio signal to my friends across the border in the electorate of Mallee be increased. Whether the Horsham station should be upgraded, whether the power output of the Renmark station should be upgraded or whether there is room for a low output station at Mildura, I do not know But I support the remarks of the honourable member for Mallee. I have been invited to these meetings. I appreciate that the people of his district have a problem. I hope that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in particular will take note of the few words put by the two of us on this occasion. 
Has the Minister for National Development yet received a letter from the Premier of South Australia informing him of another of the Premier's habitual somersaults, this time on the subject of his past objection lo the construction of the Dartmouth Dam? Has the Minister seen reports that the previous agreement is to be introduced into the South Australian Parliament with clauses 10a and 13 excluded? What is the Minister's attitude, as instigator of the parent legislation, to alterations apparent in this bastard Bill? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of reports emanating from Renmark, where sales of wine from stock are depressingly low, that increased overdraft facilities are required to meet added storage and intake costs? Is the Minister aware of these difficulties occurring in specific areas where essentially bulk wines are produced and sold? 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. May I say initially that I am grateful to the Minister and to the Minister for Customs and Excise for the consideration they have shown me in respect of the matter I am about to mention. Has the Minister noticed any trends in recent wine sales relating to price sensitivity on the one hand and flagon sales on the other? Has he been able to discern, from any of his inquiries, any significance in these figures? Finally, in thanking him for the consideration shown to me personally recently I ask: Is there any further suggestion he can make about improving the Government's knowledge of these matters of great concern to the wine industry? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, now that the little argument in the far corner has subsided I should like to say one or two words about the dried fruit industry in my electorate and in the electorate of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  In the area that I represent the growing of dried fruit has become proportionately less important to the economy of the district over recent years, so that the vast weight of opinion in relation to these matters must now, of course, come from the next door electorate of my friend the honourable member for Mallee. However, I have growers in my electorate and they expect to be represented and have their voices heard. They support the Australian Dried Fruits Association in principle but I would point out to honourable members who perhaps have not been in the House quite as long as others have that on more than one occasion I have brought to the notice of this chamber the opinion of a small minority, if I could put it that way, of growers who do not necessarily conform to the viewpoint of the Australian Dried Fruits Association. 
I imagine that my friend the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  who spoke earlier in the debate, probably did not mean to suggest that there are no grower's representatives on the research committee. 
He now says 'direct representation'. I think if he studies clause 11 of the Dried Fruits Research Bill he will find that the membership of the Committee includes 4 persons to represent the organisation known as the Australian Dried Fruits Association. As I understand the position, that is direct representation by growers. As far  as  I  am  aware there are no members of the Australian Dried Fruits Association who are not growers. If I heard the hon ourable member correctly, he said that there was not enough grower representation on the Committee, In my view there is ample grower representation on a committee primarily geared to the job of rationalising research projects. This is not the sort of committee where one would necessarily expect a majority of grower representatives. As I see it. it is a committee on which appointees from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Department of Primary Industry and the Australian Agricultural Council logically should have more knowledge with which to advise the industry on research projects. I think there is a reasonably generous complement of growers representatives on the committee by virtue of clause 11 (1 .) (a) which states:  four persons to represent the organisation known as the Australian Dried Fruits Association; 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  did mention that he felt it was hard to have a policy until we knew whether the United Kingdom was going to join the European Common ' Market or not. I do not argue very much with the honourable member for Riverina in relation to this. Obviously . whether Britain joins the Common Market or not will determine the way future policies will have to go, and if he thinks verbosity dr verbal diarrhoea is a substitute for policy in relation to these matters, I cannot help that. Anyone with an ounce of commonsense would surely agree that until 'we know the exact marketing conditions to apply to this industry in the future we cannot very well have a certain policy. The policy might  be  to produce more or to produce less, or perhaps to stabilise the industry, hut until we know the direction in which production is going I submit that only an ass would consider it of any importance at all to  be  more specific than that. However, it is up to the honourable member for Riverina to make up his own mind. . 
The most important thing about the dried fruit industry in my electorate is that over many years it has been what I might call the basic common denominator or the fall-back industry of the area. The canned fruit, citrus and wine industries have their peaks of profitability to ' growers on irrigated properties in those ' areas, but fundamentally it is the dried fruits industry on which they can fall back when times  are not so good in the other industries that 1 mentioned, lt is on the basis of this historical fact that this legislation is of great importance to my area, we are now faced with a situation in my electorate in which predominantly citrus growing farms are very often not proving profitable. We are also faced with a situation in which certain sections of the canned fruit industry around Berri and Renmark have had their difficulties, particularly with canned peaches, much more, I think, than growers in any other part of Australia, due to  pecularities  of production patterns in which peaches from that area form a predominant part of total production. This pattern is not mirrored in other areas of Australia. So we therefore have a situation in which, with problems of surplus production facing the wine industry within the next 5 years if not sooner, the producers will once again want to know where they stand in relation to the dried fruits industry. lt is for that very purpose that the introduction of a stabilisation scheme to come forward shortly is a matter of grave concern to growers of  gordo  and sultana grapes in particular in that locality. So it is not purely a matter of a policy in relation to dried fruits. There is an automatic interweaving of different products, affecting the entire economy of those areas, as in the diversity of uses for grapes in both the wine and dried fruit industries. It is important that all possible efforts be made to conduct proper research into alternate uses and functions for sultana and  gordo  grapes produced in those areas. Very often this type of research does not hold the answer to the marketing or merchandising of these products. I think, for instance, of years gone by when the average production of sultanas on an irrigated farm was perhaps 10 tons to the acre. It is entirely due to this type of research that there are  varities  of sultana grapes available today which produce 20 tons to the acre. I quote this as an example where we are not necessarily solving marketing difficulties through research, but research is making it possible for individual farmers on irrigated properties to make some gains in productivity within their enterprise. 
I appreciate that the Opposition views the word 'productivity' with complete horror and a lack of understanding but I can assure them that people struggling to keep their heads above the debt structures in industries such as the dried fruit industry do not see it in that light. Productivity, whether it be related to the poorer sectors of primary industry such as small dairy farmers and dried fruit producers or other more profitable industries, is a matter of great concern and the Government deserves great commendation for introducing or formalising - if I could put it that way - industry investment on the one hand and Government matching grants for research on the other :in a search for productivity, for new marketing methods and a higher quality of dried fruit produced. 
Many honourable members have toured areas such as South East Asia on behalf of their electorates for the purpose of assisting businesses and industries within their electorates. 1 expect that many of them will have run into, as I have in the past in countries such as Japan, the Australian Trade Commissioner who has said 'Come along with me and try a sample of an Australian product'. This happened to me many years ago and it may be that the position has now been remedied. The Trade Commissioner might say 'Try this piece of dried fruit' and you sample it but you find some grit in it. For some quaint reason not only Australians but also the Japanese seem to think' that grit has an association with dirt.. Being a race with very hygienic attitudes the Japanese do not like the association of a gritty taste in the mouth with dirt. When the fruit is contracting in the drying stages on racks it is difficult to exclude grit that might be in the air, but its presence can have an adverse effect on a small but important export industry. 
I believe that in the progressive areas, such as those represented by the honourable member for Mallee, the drying of sultanas and other grapes is now being done on vine. This is a breakthrough. The process involves cincturing the bark on the rods of sultanas or whatever variety is being treated, thereby stopping the flow of sap therein and drying the product on the vine. By this process there is a fair chance, through eliminating triple handling and rack drying that airborne earth particles will not attach to the dried fruit. I believe the quality of the fruit produced in this way is of an exceptionally high order. Any industry  worth its salt will look at change and innovation. It needs this type of research. If the dried fruits industry is to maintain its position as a most dependable industry, as it traditionally has been in irrigated areas, this type of research must take pride of place. The growers themselves must learn to profit by the type of research and the results when they are announced. 
I think I need say no more at the second reading stage of these associated Bills. 1 look forward to seeing what amendments are moved during the Committee stage of the Bills. I hope that when they are moved by honourable members on either side of the House they will bear directly towards the betterment of an industry in which the people involved are struggling to make their way in life and in many cases to pay off their commitments. I commend the Government very heartily for working with the industry and in bringing in the type of research that will not penalise or interfere with research that has been contributed to by both sides in the past. In other words, this research is in addition to any research which has previously been carried out I support the Bill. 
 I think we can be grateful in some ways to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for drawing the attention of the House to the problem that can be posed to the beef industry. However, it is a matter which honourable members on this side of the House have also been taking a little notice of recently at Party committee meetings. Therefore 1 think I will take a minute or two to show how, in some areas, the honourable member for Dawson and I see things differently. I do not think it is any longer true to say that there is a big market for protein in many developing countries. I think that more and more if there is an express need these countries are succeeding in developing their own supplies. Of course this is the logical way of doing it. If we think - I realise this is not quite what the honourable member said - that we should develop industries based on selling proteins to areas in need, I suggest that the reservoir will rapidly dry up. 1 believe that our role in those countries should be that of advice and technological help. I shall expand on that thought. There is an idea - and I think it is solidly based - that it is time to think bard about alternate exports to wheat, which in some areas perhaps is no longer quite as viable as it might be because of the type of restrictions and quotas which are placed on it. Many different commodities can be considered. For instance, in Queensland, the State of the honourable member for Dawson, and in northern New South Wales sorghum has been used for some time. I do not think that sorghum has altogether proved entirely successful under all seasonal conditions which apply in those States. Certainly this year crops are booming and looking extremely promising, but I think that one can already perceive that this is not necessarily a crop that should be grown within the tolerances exercised in a State such as Queensland. 
In thinking of sorghum, unquestionably the by-products of the oil seed crops such as peanut and cotton have a part to play. As mentioned by the honourable member, the soya bean has its value not in oil but primarily in meal production. He quite rightly drew the attention of the House to this meat substitute and its dangers. There is really only one country in the world so far as I know which has made inroads to any marked degree in this field and that, of course, is the United States of America. I think the honourable member will find that there are 2 firms in Europe - I am told they are in Germany - which quite recently have given up the manufacture of this commodity at a time when one might have supposed the technological breakthrough was just as possible in that area as it was in America. 
I think the analogy that the honourable member drew in his speech between artificial fibre production and the wool industry has some bearing on the psychological moment at which something catches on or does not catch on. There are people - and I mention  Dr Hohnen  of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics - who believe that there is a psychological stage at which matters jell. There is the technological breakthrough on the one hand, a price mechanism as perhaps in the case of beef in America where the price became unduly high and encouraged the production of substitutes; but even more than that, there is the psychological means of acceptance that suddenly makes people think the artificial fibre T-shirt is a better article than the Vyella shirt, leaving the price differentiation out of it. These are matters worthy of note. 1 do not know whether or not the initial moves in this country to produce artificial meat substitutes will catch on but so long as the production of beef goes on increasing and its price does not soar - probably the economics of our beef industry are second to none in the world - I doubt whether the differentiation would exist for this to occur. 1 would like to conclude by making a few more comments about export grains as an alternative to wheat. This is a dangerous matter to discuss in a minute or two because it means that we have to generalise, but it seems to me that there is quite a future for the production in the southern districts of rape, sown with mustard to stop bloat in stock. There is the field pea industry, which comically enough affects the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I suppose for 25 years or more - and the honourable member for Wakefield can supply chapter and verse on this a lot better than I can - there has been virtually no research work done on the field pea industry. Yet there are members in this House, and one is sitting on the cross benches now, who have been exporting peas to Japan at a very worthwhile price. We are still in the infancy stages with some of the alternative crops that can be grown. A lot of the trouble we experience from time to time is in the older industries. So long as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, with Government funds and industry donations, produces experimental and research work, there is an automatic degree of investment in fields in which perhaps investment should not be made at this time. Yet when there is the possibility of export rape seed, field peas, feed barley, and six-row barley we find that investment and effort have not been put into the production of seed crops, some old and some new, which could very welt have a marked effect on the future export potential and welfare of this country. Perhaps the honourable member has promoted something by way of this debate and I hope it throws some light on the problems. I am sorry I am not quite so well prepared as he was, but he has touched on a subject that is of great importance to all. 
I think we can be grateful for the 3 or 4 very objective speeches we have heard tonight, and 1 give credit to those who delivered them. 1 hope that I also can steer clear of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths),  feather beds. Ben Chifley and statistics. 
1 might even be prevailed upon to steer clear of the honourable member for Sturt. Tonight I would like to offer an opinion. Of course, it might not be valid. My opinion is that in spite of the altruistic and lofty motives behind many of the suggestions put forward in particular by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  I have a feeling that the practical realities of life, looking into the future, would .still make it mandatory that pension payments must and. I think, will remain part of the economic policy of government. That does not mean to say that they cannot be given different priorities. It does not mean to say that inter-departmental committees. Senate inquiries, House of Representatives inquiries and all sorts of inquiries may not have an effect on those priorities. 1 am not saying they would or would not. But I think we have to be a little practical and realise that the resources of a relatively small nation such as Australia are limited. The problem is one purely of how to get the best value from the amount of money that can be spent. 
I was particularly interested tonight in the suggestion - of course this applies, in my view, right through the spectrum of government from local to State to Federal - that not enough attention is paid to and not enough use is made of the rapidly increasing force of social workers that we have in the community today. In my view, as medicine improves and doctors with different specialities come together in groups, social workers should be engaged. Unquestionably they should be made available by State Governments in helping local municipalities with problems at their level. 1 think this is of very great importance. If I might be excused for being a little personal for a minute, I had the great pleasure of boxing, if that is the right word, both the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the senior social worker at the Adelaide Hospital,  Mrs Garrett,  at dinner the other night. I think they both did each other good. They both had ideas of their own. I note that she has trimmed some of her ideas since having dinner with the Minister. I hope, on the other hand, that the Minister has absorbed some of the very valid suggestions that unquestionably that sort of person can put to a Minister for Social Services. 
I think I might also make one or two kindly and reasonable suggestions to the Minister for consideration at this pre-Budget time. Firstly I would like to point out to him the ridiculous situation that arises when an age pensioner has a wife under the age of  60  years. I think another honourable member has already touched on this point. I do not pose as being so expert as those who are in constituencies where they come face to face with the entire spectrum of the problem more often than I do. The point that seems to me to be quite ridiculous is that it would not cost the Government anything to allow a husband with a wife under pensionable age to earn quite a lot more money than he is able to earn now. When we come to consider it, surely the logic of this matter bears on this point. The wife has probably reared a family and when she reaches the age of  57  or even  50  the family leaves home. It seems to me that the idea of the present legislation is that she should then, possibly never having worked in her life before, go out and try to get a job. 
 The honourable member for Port Adelaide has neither a brain in his head nor any hearing in his earholes or he would not make the remark he has just made. I object to it most strenuously. I was leading to the point where I was about to say that there is no justice in this situation. If the honourable member had just listened instead of behaving like the honourable member for Port Adelaide he would do better in this place. If I might return to the point I was trying to make, I will repeat it for the honourable member's edification. It seems to me that the present legislation is a little bit unfair to the woman who has finished rearing her family at the age of, say,  50  or  54.  It seems wrong to expect such a woman, to repeat exactly what I said previously, to go out at that age and find a job for the first time in her life. If it costs the Government nothing to let the husband who is in the habit of working go out and earn more than he is allowed to earn now - I hope I am getting back in line with the honourable member for Port Adelaide - then I make the suggestion that that type of alteration should be allowed. I make it for several reasons. First, surely a man who wants to go out and work without losing his pension rights should be allowed to do so. Surely in many cases it is good occupational therapy. I do not believe that such a husband should be penalised because his wife is under the age of  60. 
There is one other point I would like to touch upon, and it bears perhaps on areas other than my own electorate. I refer to the very rapidly increasing costs for those pensioners who own their own homes. In years gone by, I believe these people were infinitely better off than those who did not own their own homes. But in my opinion the gap is closing, if it has not closed already. This is due in large part to the very rapidly increasing costs of water rates and council rates. These matters are not the direct responsibility of this Government but the responsibility of State governments. Yet they arc matters that we must surely assess in looking at the overall problems that are posed to people receiving a pension. Furthermore, I think that those of us who have knowledge of these things - obviously this would include everybody here - will recognise the rapidly increasing cost of maintenance of these homes. I refer not only to the physical impossibility of some pensioners carrying out maintenance but also to the high cost of maintenance services. If I have put forward, as 1 hope I have, sensible, sane and realistic suggestions to the Minister, that was my aim tonight. 1 will conclule my remarks with this one comment: It is easy enough for us on this side of the House to sit back in this rather lengthy debate, in which repetition has in some ways been the order of the day, and let it roll. Some speakers from the opposite side of the House have been critical of us for doing this. I assure those honourable members that our intentions are the best. The Government has acted. It is up to honourable members opposite to say whether the Government has done enough, whether its actions have been wrong, or to make its suggestions, whether sensible or wild. The ball is in the court of honourable members opposite. I think it is invalid for members of the Opposition to taunt us at this stage. They have to do the talking; we have done the acting. 
by leave- I wish to make a statement on the same topic. I think it is well known that members of the Opposition, on occasions when they cannot perhaps obtain opportunities to feed question* to Ministers in order to obtain information, will sometimes put questions on notice. 1 do not think anyone in this place would regret or detract from their capacity to do this. But it seems to me and many other honourable members on the back bench of this side of the House that there is nevertheless a deliberate attempt by the Opposition to stifle any gaining of information by honourable members whose electorates are concerned with certain specific topics. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  expressed alarm tonight about the apple industry in his electorate. I knew the manager at Harcourt but the honourable member informs me that the position has changed. I am sorry to hear that that is so. My only comment on his remarks are that the stabilisation scheme - so people in the industry who know the scheme have told me - applies purely to the risk section of export apples. This, of course, is in principle geared to removing that section of the surplus production, particularly from Tasmania, so that people situated close to consumer high density areas such as Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Wollongong and elsewhere can get an open competitive access to those markets. This is the aim of the scheme. I am well aware of the difficulties around Harcourt with the road stalls and the attitude of people in the area which has always been against stabilisation. It must be very difficult for the honourable member for Bendigo in that area because there is a very great spirit of independence in the apple industry there and people do not easily come to the party as regards any scheme of stabilisation or organisation. 
I well remember being in the Harcourt area a week or two before the honourable member was elected. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  made a Press statement on the great new thinking of the Labor Party in relation to stabilisation schemes. All he succeeded in doing around there was to arouse the ire of very independently thinking apple growers. I appreciate the difficulties of the honourable member for Bendigo. I hope that in future the honourable member, together with some of his friends if he can gather them around him, will stop slinging off at primary industries and trying to make an issue of what, according to the Labor. Party, are cheap and easy funds for some of these industries. They should be trying to help these areas instead of. poking fun at them, as some honourable members have been doing recently. 
I rose tonight to talk not about apples but about the problem of the number of questions on the notice paper, which you,  Mr Speaker,  will have perceived. I do not suppose it will be great news to the Opposition to learn that there are now 3,178 questions in this fair sized volume. 
Is the honourable member referring to unanswered questions? 
That is true enough. I think in past times we on this side of the House have appreciated some of the difficulties of members of the Opposition. They do not enjoy the same conditions that we have in terms of talking matters over with Ministers, or perhaps it is just that they do not read annual reports so readily. I am not quite sure which is the case, but one can understand that they have this problem. However, the number of questions put on the notice paper this year and which remain on the notice paper to date, thereby precluding other honourable members from representing the people in their electorate, makes this matter no longer a joke. I do not know why we cannot put to the Standing Orders 
Committee the proposition that the whole matter be reviewed. I believe that a leader of the Opposition must be allowed a reasonable opportunity to obtain information in detail, along the lines followed at the moment, with one question bearing on the other and going on for perhaps  200  words in length - hardly a question, but excusable. I think we have to arrive at a situation where the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is allowed so many questions and back benchers are allowed a lot fewer per year. 
Opposition members - Nonsense. 
I know your abhorrence of your own tall poppies. Do not let me interfere with  your right to  feel that way about them. We are reaching the situation now where I am not allowed to ask a question which concerns matters of great importance both to my electorate and my electors. 
The honourable member for Sturt can say if he wishes that  1  should be quicker or I should be slower or something else. I am not. prepared to argue with  Mr Speaker  for the sake of the honourable member for Sturt, but he will be well aware that today I was not allowed to inquire into a matter of very grave concern to my electorate. 
It is of concern to the district of the honourable member for Riverina, but by no stretch of the imagination could it be said to be of very great concern, because  69  per cent of Australia's wine production comes from South Australia, and  90  per cent of that would come from my electorate. So I take issue on the point that the honourable member for Sturt has raised. That particular matter is very much more important to me. 
But let us have a deeper look at this matter to see what is its cause and what is happening. A person whom I regard as having some sense in relation to rural matters, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  does not adopt this elaborate method of trying to block up channels of probing. However, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam))  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  do adopt this method. The honourable member for the Australian 
Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has on the notice paper  2  questions which cover more than one whole page. They must consist of about  1,000  words each. To me they do not appear to be very vital questions, but I am not prepared to debate that now. However, I am prepared to debate the necessity for some of the questions put on the notice paper by the honourable member for Riverina. I refer in particular to question  3171.  If the honourable member cannot obtain the full details in  30  seconds from the annual report of the Australian Dairy Board, I will go he. As a matter of fact,  1  could almost give him the answer now out of my head; it is such a silly question. But if it is such a silly question, why is it on the notice paper? The only way in which I can add this up is to say that someone does not want inquiries made into this matter. That is the only possible interpretation. Otherwise, the honourable member could look up the answer or the research people could do it for him in a few seconds. I suggest that it is a false sort of grandeur. He wants to feel that people are paying attention to him because he is putting questions on the notice paper. What a lot of rot. What an act. How low does one have to get in order to try to prevent debate on matters which may affect his electorate and certainly the electorates of other honourable members? 
I think I have said quite enough to cover the purpose for which  1  rose to speak tonight. It was to complain very sincerely from my point of view about the huge areas which are affected now by honourable members placing questions on the notice paper and about the fact that we cannot possibly probe these areas at question time. I do not believe that it is smart to try to close up these areas. For instance, dairy farmers in a number of honourable members' electorates should feel that their members can probe these issues. The question that has really hurt me is one relating to the wine industry which the honourable member has placed on the notice paper. On my count - give or take a word or two - that question contains  109  words, three-quarters of which would have been covered in the Press release printed today in the provincial Press in my area. That indicates how useful the question is. 
We have just heard one of the usual dissertations from that ingredient of the fruit cake, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who has been up to one of his fruit salad jobs by roaming all over the countryside, something which he is very ill-equipped to do. However, what he has lost in one way has been made up for in entertainment value, but perhaps he is past entertainment for my colleagues in the Australian Country Party. What I want to do is put forward 2 points of view in relation to this matter. I hope that both of them will refute suggestions put forward by the Opposition. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  was very close to my first point when he pointed out that if the Opposition took the trouble of looking at clause 1 1 of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill it would see that the matter under dispute affects sub-clauses (a) and (b) which state: 
. . . fail  or neglect duly to furnish a return or information that he is required under the regulations to furnish; or 
furnish, in pursuance of the regulations, a return of information that is false or misleading in a material particular. 

 Mr Chairman, the purpose of this clause is to make sure that the primary producers are levied a similar amount to the Government's subvention for the purpose of research. It is an equally valid argument as any other argument one could put forward to say that it is quite essential that, if someone by mistake, misleadingly or accidentally supplies or furnishes a report that is inaccurate, the mistake is not perpetu ated any longer than necessary. That argument is as valid as that which the Opposition has put forward tonight. In other words, there is an essence in this argument that someone, if I can put it in the vernacular of the Opposition, who is a bludger on his mates, someone who is a scab on a union - whether he be a Tasmanian or the original founder of the Democratic Labor Party of Australia or anything else is beside the point - someone whom the Opposition inherently should distrust should be caught before he, and again to use the vernacular of the Opposition, succeeds in bludging on his mates. This is the purpose of clause II and this is why the Government takes the view that it does. The 5-year period would in many ways suit me a lot better than the Senate's amendment, but we are not here to split hairs unduly in this regard. What I want to do is try to refute the Opposition's suggestion that this clause will result in getting at the primary producer in some way. 
I thought that the remarks of the honourable member for Sturt in attempting to ridicule the honourable member for Mallee for seeking properly to represent his electorate were in bad taste. 1 think any honourable member in this place would acknowledge that the majority of dried fruit growers are in his electorate. I do not know of any in the electorate of Sturt. If the honourable member for Sturt succeeds in sticking to his seat and his electorate for more than one term, and in being more than a oncer, perhaps he will begin to appreciate the effort put forward by the honourable member for Mallee on behalf of his constituents who are dried fruit growers, a fact of life of which the honourable member for Sturt bas no comprehension at all. I am certainly against what I imagine to be the amendment that the Opposition spokesman is about to move if the trend of the debate so far is significant of it. 
Outside Parliament House at lunch time today and for several days past there was a group of people called Quakers - the Society of Friends. They are demonstrating, according to their beliefs, as one of the most sincere groups 1 know. They are demonstrating in the way that any member on this side of the House thinks demonstrations should be carried out - peacefully, quietly and without interrupting other people. These people have not been making a nuisance of themselves or tripping up members of the Opposition or anybody else as they walked past. They have been doing a sincere job quietly, quite contrary to the actions of those who only use their voices and who are not prepared to act according to their own philosophies. 
I object to what the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  said about how this Bill relates to minorities. This Bill aims at protecting minorities, even little minorities. It aims at protecting properly those people who demonstrate according to the law, sensibly and decently. It does not aim at protecting people about whom the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  spoke a few nights ago. It is not designed to protect those who misbehave - T do not wish to become too crude - and those who open doors, misbehave and leave messes in the back of people's cars, or those people- who wish to damage other people's property maliciously. Furthermore, this Bill is aimed at such behaviour only when it is committed on Commonwealth territory. This is not a law and order Bill that should be taken as carte blanche across society in any shape or form. Member after member on the Opposition side has tried to pretend that this is so. It is not so. Maybe the Federal Government wishes to give a lead in this matter so that it is then open to the States- open to the Premier of South Australia - to take what action they see fit. 
That is the perspective in which this Bill, which has become known as a law and order Bill, should be viewed. The honourable member for Bendigo then conveyed to use the proposition that this Bill has a greater application than merely to Commonwealth territory and Commonwealth business premises. It has not. It deals with Commonwealth business premises and to nobody else's. As I have said, it perhaps suggests to the States a standard of behaviour to be followed. The honourable member for Bendigo then carried his argument on to the argument of majority rule. I object to his remark that the Government aims at protecting only the majority point of view and that it does not take into account the minority view, because this is not so. 1 repeat the argument 1 advanced a while ago. Those of us on this side of the House who attend Party meetings and who can have an influence on the form of legislation that comes before this House would not have a bar of a Bill that limited the rights of people in the minority putting their point of view to those in authority in a legitimate fashion. 
What we object to and what the Opposition cannot or will not understand is that we draw the line at those people who take advantage of the law in any way possible to commit acts that are to the disadvantage of the majority. One saw this in the performance by the Opposition today in moving a motion of no confidence in the  Speaker,  one of the most rotten debates I have heard since I have been in this place. The Opposition's action was sheer hypocrisy and a sheer denial of the importance - 
I will demonstrate the point in some other fashion because 1 personally am most sincerely involved, as T am sure the Government is, in an attempt to produce a situation in which people can demonstrate legitimately and can put forward a dissentient point of view. 
If the honourable member returns to the chamber I might listen to him. We want a situation in which we can listen to the minority point of view because 1 regard the right to express a minority point of view as of prime importance in a democratic society. So does the Government. We recently have seen signs of the Labor Party trying to approach this form of democracy. We have seen its members trying to undo the damage done by the Victorian left wing faction. 
1 will deal with South Australia in a minute. We have seen them also trying to patch up their machine in New South Wales. I give the Labor Party members credit for what they have been doing. I hope that next they will get stuck into the State to which the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has now referred, the State of South Australia, and undo the damage done by a card vote, one of the most undemocratic principles that could possibly apply. On a matter of law ana order I will not stand outside the hall in which they are meeting and try tr. disrupt their normal processes of discussion. This would not be right. If I did so, according to some sections of this Bill, might I hasten to add, I would be culpable. And I would be rightly culpable, depending on exactly what action I took. This is the attitude of those on this side of the House. We do not want to see under any circumstances the majority, whom members of the Opposition have been good enough to suggest we represent - rightly so, I think - disadvantaged by any group that wishes to hold them to ransom or to make life uncomfortable for them. 
I refer again to the example of what happened to the honourable member for Boothby.  His  car, which was parked on 
Commonwealth premises, was damaged maliciously by those who do not deserve any respect in our society. I know of the case of one man in my State  -  if what happened in this instance applied to Commonwealth premises it would be entirely in line with the provisions of this Bill - who was silly enough, if that is the way we look at it, or decent enough, if that is the way we look at it, to reply to a letter published in a local newspaper. The letter conveyed a series of facts relating to the Seamen's Union. This man had had a lifetime plying the seas as the captain of vessels engaged in commercial shipping ventures. He replied objectively to contradict the point of view that had been put forward. That man still is subjected to intimidation. 2 years after he wrote to that local newspaper in South Australia. I am not saying for one minute that anyone in this House would have a bar of that kind of action. 
Nobody would have a bar of it, not even the honourable member for Port Adelaide. But I do say that the people who carry out that sort of action and who maliciously try to. make life hell for women and children- 
Has the Prime Minister seen a statement by a constituent of mine,  Sir Thomas  Playford, stating that there is little future in a system that encourages expenditure by States without their possessing the responsibility of collection? Does he agree that uniform taxation may have its limitation? Does he doubt, as does  Sir 
Thomas Playford, the efficacy  of.  a growth tax as a method of ameliorating the problem of State growth commitments? 
I wish to touch on the matter of Commonwealth death duties or estate duties as they apply to estates which have a high proportion of agricultural land within their valuation. The case to which I wish to refer from time to time in the next few minutes can best be described as the case in which a person dies and a valuation is made on his farming property. For the sake of this exercise, let us say that the valuation figure is $55 per acre. However, by the time probate has been declared, the value per acre of the land comprising a portion or the whole of this estate has fallen to $23 per acre. At the present time, this occurrence is not uncommon. The problem that exercises the minds of those who may be beneficiaries of such an estate quite clearly is that the sale value of the whole of that property will not meet the estate duty levied on the property originally. 
This matter obviously merits close examination because a clear case of rank injustice can be demonstrated when the property of a person who slugs away all his life is valued on his death at $55 per acre but by the time probate is declared its value has fallen to $23 per acre. The sum accruing from the sale of that property at auction in the case that I have in mind - depending on the size of the property, of course - does not cover the amount of commitment to the payment of death duties. In other words, any chance that that man had to hand on to his children even a box of matches as a result of his labours during his working life is thrown overboard. The illustration that I have given is the most outrageous case of which I have heard personally lately. But there are degrees of injustice according to individual cases. This must happen under the present legislation affecting estate duty on deceased estates. If it does not apply to the degree that I have described to the House, it does, on falling values, hit the beneficiaries of deceased primary producers to one degree or another. 
The Commonwealth Taxation Office in South Australia has been very good to me in relation to such matters and has supplied me with a lot of information. I think that some of it is relevant to the problem that I pose today. This letter from the Taxation Office states:   the law requires that estate duty be levied on the value at the date of death of the asset of  a  deceased person. The word 'value' is not denned but has been judicially expressed to mean 'the price which the subject will bring when exposed to the test of competition'. 
Exposure to the test of competition' again is a valid matter to consider in relation to the example that I pose in respect of this problem. In this case the second value of $23 an acre was tested at auction. That is not a fair method of establishing the value of a property, as my friend, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  who is so experienced in these matters will know, although I do not know how else real value could be established. In fact, to be quite fair, the letter from the Commonwealth Taxation Office goes on to say: 
In this regard I would agree that, subject to any unusual circumstances, the price which a property would bring at  a  well-advertised auction would be cogent evidence as to its value. 
So, we have this rather ridiculous situation where the poor person who has died cannot unduly effect any variation in the value of his property from the time of his death to the time when his property has to be auctioned in order to provide death duties to the Government. In the case that I have quoted, if I may say it again, not enough money will accrue from the auction of the property to meet the commitment, established at the point of death, to the Commonwealth Government. I believe that the Taxation Office takes the view that estates on a rising market benefit from this particular situation and I suppose that for many years, from the end of World War II, that has been so, but it is not of much help to the beneficiaries to find out that the value of the estate left to them not only has evaporated considerably but also is less than the death duties levied by the Taxation Office. I hope that people will take notice - I shall make sure that they will, by banding on this small speech and the letter from which I have quoted - of this matter because, as I have tried to convey in a roundabout way, it is all very well from the point of view of the Taxation Office to say that the principle applies very happily on rising values, but it is not good enough to adopt the same principle and say that it should apply also to falling land values. 
As I have said, this can do one of several things. First, it can apply  a  tremendous loading on to  a  property left by a deceased person, perhaps to 1 child, if the beneficiary is going to continue to have the benefit of his knowledge of that farm  - a  far greater knowledge than anyone else would have - and to carry on with the working of the farm as  a  viable operation. If death duties affect that situation, they also will affect another sector, namely, the entire problem of the viability of rural lands in Australia today. As honourable members would know, this is a very real problem. Secondly, there is the matter of equity. When land values are falling as at present, beneficiaries are disadvantaged. When land values were rising, as they were for some years after World War II, beneficiaries were favoured. But this is of no real help tothe beneficiaries of an estate or to those people who would be affected by a death in the family because, of course, they would be disadvantaged by this particular problem. I hope that the House will take notice of this matter. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  touched on the overall problem of commodity agreements because I think this is terribly important and I intend to do roughly the same sort of thing later on in my remarks. Unless I misheard the honourable member, he suggested that my colleagues in the Australian Country Party should look into the possibility of commodity agreements in wheat and wool. I would just reply to that suggestion by saying that there has been a very effective International Wheat Agreement which was superseded by The International Grains Arrangement. I do not know whether I misheard the honourable member or misunderstood him- 
No, one is a trifle broader than the other. The honourable member said that it was time they had a look at it with a. view to introducing one. I am just replying to that. I thought one had been introduced. 
Well, now if we want to introduce one like the International Tin Agreement all sorts of different things apply. The first is that we must have cooperation from producing countries and, of course, the nigger in the wood pile - if nigger' is the right colour description in this case- was the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Evidently the honourable member for Lalor does not appreciate that the non-co-operation of the USSR was one reason why we could not get an agreement on wheat equivalent to the International Tin Agreement. However, I wish to develop that argument a little more fully later on.  - 1 welcome the chance- purely as a personal matter- to talk briefly today on the International Tin Agreement. I have had a very great interest in this Agreement for a good many years,- ever since I had the opportunity to do economic geography, part time, at the Adelaide University. The International Tin Agreement is really fascinating. It copes, probably because of the type of commodity it deals with and certainly because of ,the type . qf- agreement itself, with circumstances, with, which no other agreement has been able to cope. One could say that the International Sugar Agreement and, indeed the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, have functioned well. One could say that the International Grains Arrangement, until it was broken by the world surplus of wheat, functioned well. But the International Tin Agreement has held its head high for many, many years and has functioned over the operation of 4 full agreements.  . Its success can be queried only twice. The first time was when Russia tried to flood the tin market and the second was when the buffer stock ran dry. This happened because there was a run on tin with consequent rising prices. In other words, the very principle of the agreement, whereby when prices rise stocks are released from the buffer zone and put onto the free market on the instructions of the (Council, broke down on one second occasion not many years ago. 
The International Tin Agreement has become, with the advent of Australian participation for the first time as an exporter, an even more important philosophical part of our trade policy than previously. Our interest previously was primarily as a pro ducer and consumer but not as an exporter.  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden has defined trade policy - I quote this in order to set a base for my argument - as 'the broad strategy behind a country's, total, export or import trade', and within that definition, commodity policy as being 'the extension into the international sphere of national agriculturalincluding mineral - policy'. 
So it is the relationship between the International Tin Agreement and our commodity policies that I wish to explore for a few minutes this afternoon. I think it is fair to say that it has become fashionable throughout the mass media of Australia and . in this Parliament to refer to many of the trade and internal policies of the Government as having fallen on bad times or as having fallen into disarray. It is very easy to join in these remarks. It is- very easy to say that if the Australian tobacco industry had not been protected, the. use of Australian raw. and unscoured wool in the United States of. America during the last year might not have fallen by 22 per cent or that if some other policy had been adopted the demand for Australian unscoured wool on world : markets last year would not have fallen by 8 per cent. It is. very easy to be critical when times are different.  . One of the- worrying features of our trade policy in our, rationalisation, of it internally and externally,! is that changes are occurring so quickly; it must be a great source of worry to those administering this policy. It is - not unimportant that industry representatives and backbenchers from both sides crf the House should rethink some of these policies and, if necessary, kindly criticise them and produce new ideas about so many of these matters. I do not pretend for one minute that I have not been critical or that I do not like being critical but I would point out that it is very easy to be critical and not make constructive suggestions. I will be critical here and now. I believe it is quite insufferable that the Australian people have not been given a white paper dealing with Government attitudes on commodity agreements. If one spreads this argument to something wider - than commodity agreements I think our whole aim should be spelt out. 
Is our policy anything more than trying to act through the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade to get a freer method of trade as a trading nation? Is this our policy in trade? Have we a policy which says that although we support and work' for international agreements on coffee, mea't and all sorts of things we should not do much to promote commodity agreements in other areas? The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  mentioned ' wool. I intend to touch briefly on that subject later. There are all sorts of other commodities. Do we, as a Parliament and as a government, attempt to' compromise between the Labor Party's attitude on the tariff of instructing the Board as to the guidelines the Labor Party requires or do we divorce ourselves from this and say to producers: 'If you want a stabilisation scheme and if you want us to work in the realm of an international commodity agreement you have to tell us because unless you guarantee us some support we do not intend to .do anything about it'? The answer lies somewhere between this interference and a doctrinaire insistence that all good boys do as the government wants on the one hand and what I regard as too little leadership on the other. 1 have no doubt that in. the future when planning national budgeting at primary producer level - at all sorts of levels - and when budgeting becomes a matter of greater exactitude, there will be more merit for commodity agreements. Because I see no paper or policy statement of significance on these matters I do not know what the Government's thinking is. I think the time has certainly come when we need to consider these matters. It has become fashionable lately, for instance, to say that we do not agree with supply management, to use a catch phrase. I think there is a fashionable trend back to the market place economy. I do not know that this is a valid exercise or whether we are not all getting a trifle hysterical and picking up the easy catch phrase 'market place economy' because I am quite sure that great merit exists in trying to equate supply with a consumer demand situation. After all, this is a business principle that is adopted widely by all sorts of businesses. 
How is this for an example of supply management? Last year, due to  Sir Henry  Bolte trying to keep thin and other peculiar matters, there was a sudden demand for unsweetened grapefruit juice concentrate. 
The facts are that over the last year, if my arithmetic is correct, 2 million bushels equivalent of unsweetened grapefruit juice has been consumed by Australians. Only a quarter "of this, 0.5 million bushels, has been supplied by the Australian producer measured as an equivalent' in weighted grapefruit. Here in by-law entry is an interesting case of supply management applying internally in Australia and keeping on the shop shelves a commodity that shows no signs of losing its attraction to consumers in this country. In due course, Australian production, which is a very long range matter involving investment and the planting of fruit trees, will deal with this situation. The point I am trying to make is that this is a classic example of supply management by feeding to people who want it approximately the quantity they require of a raw material. This is precisely what we are trying to do with world commodity agreements. I do not know clearly what, the Government's attitude is in relation to this and, with great respect, I ask the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, to pass on to. his colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, the suggestion that some of these things should be explored and spelt out more deeply for Australian people, industry groups and Parliament in general. 
As a trading nation do we or do we not want commodity agreements similar to the International Tin Agreement affecting iron ore, bauxite, steel, alumina, copper, zinc, lead? I do not know whether producers of these commodities want it. On the other hand, I do not know whether in the national interest we should listen too carefully oh occasions to the producers of those commodities. The Minister in his second reading speech pointed out that great price benefits have existed over the years as a result of these tin agreements. He said: 
The Australian Tin Industry . . . has derived considerable price benefits from the operation of successive agreements. 
If that is a valid remark then is this case not valid in respect of other commodities? I am thinking not altogether from the point of view of the interests of producers who may or may not want this action but in the interests of the national economy, without intruding into the producer's private business to any inconvenient degree. We . must re-appraise these matters from time to time. Where do our national interests lie? Will price fluctuations in these commodities in future be so violent as to cause disruption to our national income. Will these alter, perhaps undesirably, the direction of investment, the direction of research or the direction of resource exploration? The Government must explore these matters and report back to the Parliament at some time in the future in the form of a White Paper. 
If we look at all the commodity agreements that affect this country and the people in it directly or indirectly - I will not enumerate them now - we find all sorts of definitions that effect the type of thinking on each commodity. We should ask: Is a commodity durable? Is it non-durable, in which case an international .commodity agreement such as the International Tin Agreement may not be appropriate. Is the commodity semi-durable, as dried fruit is, in which case there exists- the International Sultana Agreement? Is there one line of the commodity, as in the case of tin? I do not imagine that there are different qualities of tin of any consequence. Perhaps I am wrong. I imagine that there is one line called 'tin'. Or does it have 480 commercial equivalents, as does wool? If it does, obviously the International Tin Agreement will not be able, without a great deal of pruning and a great difference in thinking, to cope with a commodity such as that. 
Is it a low volume commodity? Does it store easily, as tin does, or is it like loosely pressed wool which, is an expensive commodity to store as' it has great volume? What percentage of the production is exportable and what nations are exporting it? Russia has rendered ineffective 2 agreements that we have considered. What is the relationship with other consuming nations? Is it, to use the phrase of the honourable member for Lalor, mildly collusive and restrictive in effect? Under these circumstances will the consumer nations agree to the commodity agreements? These are some of the factors that have to be looked at extremely carefully before we can develop a base for any commodity agreement. If we look at wool we find that there are several things- 
The honourable member has always been tinny. He will not be for much longer. I hope that the honourable member has finished jabbering. If we look it wool, for instance, we find some things that are helpful and of consequence in considering this matter.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  can you do something with this perfect idiot down there who is interjecting? He has got the manners of a louse. 
Does the PostmasterGeneral know whether it is true that on the notice board - 
I support the Bill which gives effect to the report of the Inquiry into Academic Salaries by  Mr Justice  Eggleston following the increase of 6 per cent granted by the national wage case decision in 1970. It seems right to me that the Government has acted immediately in relation to this matter upon receiving the Eggleston report because it is a matter of some honour between the Government and the universities. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  asked various questions related to the broadening ot the request for salary increases. So far as I remember - I have not had time to check - the Eggleston report did not recommend salaries in areas other than those with which the Government has seen fit to deal tonight. However, I am not certain and I might be incorrect in saying that. I take this opportunity to point out some of the issues involved in salary increases. 
I think it is quite true that many of us who have had experience with universities since World War II are well aware that for some of that time senior lecturers and ordinary lecturers did not have decent salaries. However, I respectfully suggest that at present they have little cause for complaint. I know that in many Australian universities today senior lecturers particularly are asked to do much more than was once asked of them. Many honourable members who keep in touch with the universities in their home States would realise that this is so. In the past many senior lecturers have had time to conduct research or to carry out some specific job in relation to ad hoc committees of inquiry within the university structure, but no longer do they have time to do so. I welcome the fact that the Government is honouring its commitments in accordance with the Eggleston report. I feel that the position here is rather analogous to the situation posed recently by the Government in terms of industry when it withdrew the investment allowance. I suggest that in many respects the withdrawal of the investment allowance does not help the efficiency of business for the future because we need the resources of modern machinery to keep Australia up to date and efficient compared with competitor countries. In the same way I believe that the Government must look at the case of senior lecturers at Universities who are now working more fully and for a great many more hours than they were a year or two ago. 1 hope that the Government will give consideration to this point. 
There will be those in this House - I do not know that I am one of them - who would think it is a desirable state of affairs that senior lecturers be occupied in this way, having in mind that they are entitled to sabbatical leave and to sojourns in Parliament or elsewhere in order to increase their knowledge of world conditions within their own speciality, when perhaps they should be putting in more time doing what they are meant to do, that is, teaching the young people of Australia. However, that is a matter of judgment. I merely point out that that might have been the position in the past but in my opinion it is not the position today. They are now putting in more hours of teaching than was ever required of them in the past. I ask the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is now at the table, to take note of what I have said and decide whether in his judgment this situation is more desirable so that, our universities will have the capacity to teach the promising section of our community and those with the most potential and so that we may have a vast and important resource for Australia. 
I shall finish my remarks by expressing a view as a member for South Australia. We have in South Australia 2 universities, the University of Adelaide and more latterly but still not harnessed to full potential, the Finders University. A great many people in my State would like to know why a person such as Professor Medlin, who is in receipt of the top level of salary mentioned in the Bill, should seek voluntrily to lead dissentient groups. On the evidence of last Monday he sought voluntarily in Adelaide to lead a group which 1 would suggest is not highly respected as a group. In fact one could almost be forgiven for referring to members of the group as just about the lowest types that one could get in South Australia. Yet as a senior professor at the Flinders University he has become involved with this group. On many occasions I have debated with Professor Medlin on television and radio and, personally, I am quite fond of him. But I do not think it is right that a man having a responsibility, as I understand his position, to teach people - which is his occupation in life - should do things contrary to this and take off at will for periods of a week or two at a time to join such things as moratoriums. 
I am not really concerned whether or not they are moratoriums or whether he goes on walkabout to Ayers Rock. It mat ters not to me. The point is that I cannot see that he is fulfilling his use as a university professor to people in this nation to whom he owes some responsibility. The people of South Australia have not yet been told clearly by the authorities of Flinders University whether or not Professor Medlin has had his wages made up during such periods as he sees fit to take off from his duties. I would like the Minister, if he sees fit although I appreciate it is not his responsibility, to tell us whether or not the taxpayers of this country owe it to  a  professor who is so erratic in his ideas and so wild in his beliefs that he believes- 
I know the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  does not fight education on political grounds. Oh, no. Although he said so himself when we were talking about the- 
I will not detain the House for long, other than to say that J think it is a shameful thing for the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to condemn the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for working flat out, as those of us who know him know that he does, and for insinuating that he should have to suffer by being present and listening to the twaddle that comes from that section of the Opposition benches. Thank goodness Prime Ministers do not yet have to do that. The second point I wish to make, and I make it very firmly, is that the honourable member for Riverina dared to suggest to this House that it was being misused because the other day we pushed through the debate on a Bill giving approval for the spending of $48m of Australian taxpayers' funds in aid to developing countries. Although the honourable member seems to have forgotten about it, it was the debate on the International Development Association (Further Payment) Bill. The Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  dealt with this matter. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Will the Treasurer give serious consideration before the next Budget to the iniquitous situation that applies when total realisation of an estate does not cover total death duties when probate cannot be declared promptly? Does he agree that there is no justice in equity for beneficiaries under these circumstances? 
Government members have stood aside, allowing Opposition members to speak successively in opposing this matter. Furthermore, the list of speakers, as handed to me by the Opposition Whip, is now complete. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I would also like- 
Now that the empty vessels have succeeded temporarily in containing themselves, perhaps I should say a word or two in relation to the motion before the Chair. I think that the first thing-- 
Motion (by  Mr Cope)  put: 
That the honourable member for Angas be not further heard. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister, lt refers to wine excise and the inter-departmental committee formed to look objectively at the effect of wine excise. Will the right honourable gentleman give some indication of this committee's findings? What statistics were used in arriving at those findings? Was the committee reconvened recently, and if so, for what purpose? 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that imported goods manufactured from man-made fibres, frequently in low wage nations, are seriously affecting the competitive position of Australian firms using natural fibres such as wool? Does the Minister see a paradox between Government subventions to wool growers on the one hand, and lowered capacity to manufacture in Australia on the other? 
-I think it is true to acknowledge the statement of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that he has a very perceptive electorate, so he thinks, but perhaps on the other hand he is bolstering his case by it. This situation is no doubt due to the fact that his electors probably have not got to know him quite well enough yet. 
-I have not been very rude. The honourable member can read it in the morning. I think it is proper that honourable members study for the moment the motion before the House. It has been moved that standing order 40 should now read: 
Unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on each Tuesday and Wednesday at halfpast two o'clock p.m.; and on each Thursday at halfpast ten o'clock a.m. 
That is, as I understand, the motion before the House at this stage. The reason for this amendment I make no apologies for it is that many members of the Party to which I belong have from time to time brought to the Party room their disquiet at the fact that they have been unable to reach their offices and be in contact with their offices more than once every 12 days. This might seem strange to those honourable members from capital cities such as Melbourne and Sydney but from my point of view I travel from only as far away as Adelaide this proved to be true. Enormous problems are involved in not being in a position to consider matters affecting constituents in one's office more than once a fortnight. 
For this reason and in spite of the wonderful case put into effect by this House not very long ago for a more effective use of the time of members of Parliament, in the majority of instances members of my Party have found this to be not effective. Reasons other than the pure convenience of honourable members and their capacity to look after their constituents were considered. I do not need to elaborate on them just now. I think it is fair to say that I personally am not altogether convinced that a return to the old sitting times will be sufficient. The honourable member for Wills very nearly touched on this issue. I would have preferred to see a 3-day week for 3 weeks and then one week off - which is the intention of the motion - but working on Tuesday mornings. There are reasons why working on Tuesday mornings would be inconvenient. Evidently it is u traditional time at which Cabinet has met for many years. As such, I think that many of us are fully aware of the enormous amount of work load that these people bear. As honourable members will know, our Cabinet meets at times when the House is sitting and for very lengthy periods during the recess to deal with major matters. Unquestionably the Executive of this Parliament needs some consideration in any alteration of the days of meeting and times of sittings that this House contemplates. 
To my mind - and perhaps I am speaking in an insular, parochial fashion - there is something wrong with the priorities of members of Parliament who do not put the position of Parliament, as the top priority. It is most essential that we safeguard our position and the position of our electors by being available to them on part of Monday and part of Friday during the normal week. But within that time, I believe, we have a responsibility firstly to Parliament itself and secondly to the people of Australia to sit for the maximum possible time, that is within reasonable hours. I am afraid that I personally cannot go along with the honourable member for Wills' amendment, no matter how much English he sees fit to use relating to the closing time of Parliament. As someone who has had a little experience during 10 months in what the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  always refers to as the very lowly position of  Deputy  Whip, I think it would become unworkable to have a situation in which someone could stall a government attempt to have a Bill passed in the knowledge that the debate must cease at 10 o'clock every night. The honourable member's proposition theoretically is a desirable one and I know that every member of Parliament wishes it could be so in a practical way. But I think that parliaments in years to come, when we are dead and gone, will agree that such a proposition is probably unworkable in the sense that it does not promote successful government but does help any attempt to stall the business of the Australian nation. So I am against the amendment put. 
In conclusion, it is my personal view that we should return to the programme of sitting 3 days a week for 3 weeks in a row and then rise for 1 week as we used to do 12 months ago. It is also my view that within those 3 days we should sit for longer hours than previously. So, with respect to the Executive I say that my view is that Parliament should care for its own reputation and make sure that within these 3 days we put up a performance that can be looked on with some pride not only by us but also by the people of Australia whom we aim to represent. 
 I am well aware of the fact that aircraft noise and its associated problems can be highly emotional and important issues to the people concerned and to honourable members who represent electorates that may be affected. But that is not why I have risen to participate in this debate. My only reason for entering into this debate is to indicate that this afternoon I had a discussion with the Opposition Whip and one or two members of the Opposition concerning debates in this chamber, lt seemed to me to be quite sensible - I think I received a certain measure of agreement from honourable members opposite - that during the debate on the Budget and the subsequent debate on the Estimates, which I gather will take quite some time, the maximum effort of the House and its members should be put into these debates. There will be every opportunity for honourable members during both these debates to discuss virtually any matters they choose. For instance tonight we have heard an excellent speech on foreign affairs by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  1 hope therefore that matters of great importance to honourable members- 
I agree with the honourable member. I wish he would hold his horses for a moment. It is only natural that if the honourable member feels that aircraft noise is a matter of great importance to the people he represents he should be given some opportunity to express his views on the subject. However, he could express his views in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation or, indeed, in the debate on the Budget Speech of the Treasurer. This would be a matter for the judgment of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  I am not necessarily complaining. I hope I am making the point clear. 
The honourable member should not blame me for not being able to puncture the thick melon that he calls a skull. 
Has the Minister for Education and Science seen reports of a statement by  Mr Hudson,  the South Australian Minister of Education, relating to an increase in educational allowances as against taxable income? Does he regard the statement as being complete, or is it an attempt to cover up the parsimonious payments to private schools by the South Australian Government, which so rightly concern one or two honourable members opposite? 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service seen the report originating from the Commonwealth Statistician, which states that Australia's strike record is on an increasing trend? Is he aware that the average Australian is becoming heartily fed up with irresponsible and frivolous strike action? Finally, does the Minister agree that the statistics showing that there has been an 82 per cent increase in the number of working days lost as compared with the previous year are alarming, and does he agree with other statistics mentioned in that report? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1 wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. There has been a clear implication, probably accidental, running through the remarks of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and indeed in the 'Canberra Times' this morning, that the gag was moved last night in some way to stop or thwart the actions of the honourable member for Chifley. As the person who moved the gag, I want to give a personal assurance that I knew nothing of this move. I give that personal assurance to the honourable member for Chifley. Furthermore, I state that if in the future he feels that some specific matter should be raised, and he is not one of the first 6 speakers - which was the case last night - I would be always open to being informed on such matters. Last night I was not so informed. I say that in good spirit and to clear the Government of charges of certain intentions which I assure the House were not there. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24 year old graduate in Building Technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act waa done as a matter of conscience, and that hrs imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry noticed reports of outrageous increases in freight charges which have been requested from Australian exporters by American-Australian conference lines? What action can farmers, exporters and, indeed, governments take against such extreme increases that could. in the future, affect the competitive position of Australian exports? 
asked the Minister for Nationol Development, upon notice: 
Can he say whether there has been a change of attitude by the Government of South Australia in relation to South Australia's future water requirements. 
Does the re-introduction of a ratifying Bill by the South Australian Government mean that the River Murray Commission can proceed to call tenders for the construction of the Dartmouth Reservoir. 
Has there been a significant loss of time which could endanger industry and agricultural requirements in times of low supply of River Murray water to South Australia. 
The matter before the Chair being the amendment, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
We have just heard another cynical approach to economic problems by my colleague from the Opposition, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He based his speech - although he did not rely on it so much as did the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  or the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  - on the fact that he feels that there should be more stimulus to the economy at this time. This spells out the very great difference indeed between the approach of the Opposition and that of the Government parties in this House. There are areas of Australia, my own electorate of Angas being one, where every small businessman, every small hotel, every small company, every small shopkeeper and everybody else who is in business and employs only a small amount of labour is now feeling the effects of the excessive rises in wage costs that have occurred in my own State under a Labor Government in the last 12 months, and, I presume, throughout this nation. 
If the honourable member for Sturt would like buy in, may I remind him that one of the problems confronting South Australia at present is that for many years we have been exporting 85 per cent of our manufactured goods - being a frugal people - to the eastern seaboard, to bigger markets. But under the present government in South Australia the margin on which industry has to operate to sell to the eastern States is getting smaller and smaller. If this is another example of the philosophy we have heard put forward tonight that the economy needs some stimulus then I hope that those people listening to the broadcast of this debate appreciate the fact that there is a deep philosophical difference between the Government parties and the Opposition. All of the major economists that I have access to - and I suppose they might not be as evident as some other people - I do not know one who does not think that some heat should be taken out of the economy at this time. I do not know one who would say when some stimulus might be needed in the future, but, to return to my point, this is where we see the difference in approach between the Opposition and the Government. 
In my electorate - and other members can talk about their own electorates - the most serious question that has ever faced the farming community, wineries and many other industries is that they will have to either increase production hand over fist, retrench or put up prices. Over and over during this debate we have heard 
Opposition supporters try to skate around the issue of increased prices. It is not a fluke that prices have increased. It is not altogether the fault of the honourable member for Sturt, I suppose, that they have increased. It is not the fault of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, but it is, I maintain, the fault of the left wing of the Labor Party and the outrageous unions which are putting up demands for excessive wage increases at every available opportunity. This is the reason that my electorate today is feeling the pinch. How the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  can go into his rural electorate and try to pretend to the electors that this is not the core of the problem is beyond my comprehension. It seems to prove that the honourable member for Riverina has an almighty sway over some of his electors in some way or other. If that is so I give him credit for it, but if that is not so let us see what happens at the next election to the electoral figures in rural seats held by members of the Opposition who believe that the economy now needs some stimulus. 
I wish the honourable member would tell me a little more because I should be delighted to listen to him. If a stimulus is now given so there can be no halt to the pressures on costs that affect all the people in this country. Time and again we have had examples of this. 
Last week in South Australia we had a new industrial disturbance, for a change. This time it was a milk factory workers' strike. In the last 8 months the milk factory workers have had a 6 per cent rise, the 6 per cent national wage rise and another 8 per cent rise. They have now gone back to work in a pro tern fashion prior to putting forward another log of claims. I just ask in passing: Does this help the housewife or the family which wants milk? Does it help the dairy man who is not exactly in an affluent position, in spite of some Government subventions, at this time? Is it not about time that we had some regard for and some understanding of each other's problems? I hope that people from time to time can say they have some understanding, but I am getting very fed up with those people who are quite prepared to put the industry in which they are involved to the wall without any thought of the implications of these wage demands. I am not concerned, as I said a little while ago, about the actions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because I think that these at least are meant to be founded on proper economic criteria. But what have not been founded on proper economic criteria have been the recent strikes at, for instance, the Uniroyal Tyre Service Factory and in 101 other places that honourable members will think of in terms of their own electorates. These things are not fair. These things are not, in my opinion, examples of proper Australian tolerance and understanding of the other bloke's point of view. 
In his speech the honourable member for Adelaide referred to this Budget as 'a blueprint for stagflation'. As far as I can understand his own blueprint it was for excessive public sector expenditure, excessive wages, excessive costs and excessive centralisation. Both the honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Kingston obviously had little time for the proposition that the payroll tax - this was mentioned earlier in the day - should go to the State Governments. They made it quite plain tonight that they believe in the centralised power of Canberra over all States. I am not prepared to argue whether it is right or wrong but I do say that intrinsic in this proposition and intrinsic in the remarks that the economy needs more stimulus is the fact that we must have larger and larger bureaucracies and larger and larger civil service numbers. Might I demonstrate this point? The honourable member for Adelaide said, amongst other things, that there should be a fairer share of the wealth of the nation going to the people who work. I suppose that here he is thinking sectionally. I would not really expect an accountant who talks of himself as being the watchdog and who has claims to being an economist to read a newspaper such as the Australian 'Economist', but if he did he would see that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  or some such character who writes under a pseudonym, has in articles over the years produced figures that surely illustrate a truism that is worthy of note. It is that over many, many years there has been no real difference in the proportion of profits that go to management, on the one hand, and labour on the other. Every now and again one may get a bit ahead - perhaps there is a difference in costs or prices - but there will be a swing back again. Over the years many left wing trade unionists have, I think, wrongly convinced the Australian people that they can get a larger share of profits from industry. In spite of all their efforts there has been no difference of note. Let us follow on from this. If there are to be increased wages for workers in industry and if the price of the article produced is not going to increase then one of several things must happen. There must be either increased productivity or, can we say, increased productivity will be illustrated by a falling off in the work force from an increase in automation and technology. The only way that the nation can progress is by getting wage increases that are valid and well substantiated. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also referred to price policies and wage policies. I was hopeful for a while. I thought to myself: 'We are going to hear something a little new'. But very soon the honourable member called it price control and got back to the antediluvian piece of antiquity, founded on this dreadful philosophy of a rigid cost-plus system; one which destroys incentive and one which would penalise the small fast-growing firms which need to finance their capital requirements out of their own resources. It would also reduce the general flexibility of the economic system. In a nutshell, it would retard economic progress. I would hope for something a little better than that. 
If I might return to the Budget, the fact that I think we should all absorb at this stage is that the Government, through this Budget, has tried to take some heat from the economy. It has tried to sop up some of the liquidity. It has aimed, where possible, to try responsibly to control or to bring controls to bear in order to ensure the economic competition that should apply between one firm and another and between one individual and another. The Government has aimed to cut down on the rate of increase in public sector expenditure, which is a very important side of this Budget and one to which I have noticed the Opposition has not referred during this debate. Yet at the same time the Government has continued to provide increased finance to State governments. This is a very responsible Budget in that regard, and in all of the years I have been a member of this Parliament I believe that this Budget has attracted less criticism than any other Budget I can remember. 
Of course, the reason for this is quite plain. Whether the Opposition likes it or not, the reasons for the stringencies in this Budget are well recognised by the Australian people. They know of the tremendous times we have had with average wages increasing by 20 per cent in a year, and higher increases in some States. This cannot continue forever without unduly penalising those people on fixed incomes and some people in the rural sector whose returns are based on export parity. Unless the price for their goods moves upwards, these people have a very hard road to hoe. That is the reason why this Budget has been fairly well received by the community at large and is not to the satisfaction of honourable members opposite. In the short time left to me I shall continue on this theme about the present state of liquidity in the economy which was demonstrated, I thought very well, by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  today when he referred to an increase of $157m in trading bank deposits for the last month, to give some idea of the potential for increased expenditure let loose in the economy. 
I should like to make a suggestion that I think deserves some thought. I refer now to private sector investment. I believe that it is wrong thinking to suppose that an increasing number of Australians should not become involved in investment in Australian mining and other ventures. More specifically, I refer to mining for petroleum, both oil and gas, and for minerals. I suggest that section 26a of our current income tax legislation is not, as presently worded, capable of giving the type of interpretation which today's needs dictate. It is a restrictive section which breeds doubt in the minds of investors and conveys a state of affairs that bears no relationship to the requirement of a modern dynamic society. I beseech the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in particular to have a look at the vast potential that exists in the ordinary Australian's pocket today, which could be used to help that Australian become a partner in Australian enterprises. I refer more particularly to the developmental ventures, or as they are commonly termed, risk ventures. A nation such as Australia today needs to utilise all available resources for efficient economic growth and development. Not only is this so, but it is becoming increasingly obvious that Australian investment is slowing down, and the reasons for this are not too difficult to see. 
Principally, it can be summed up, in the few moments remaining to me, in these words: Any small investor - and let us face it, we are a nation of gamblers and speculators in our own right - can hope to become the equivalent of the shareholder in Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd of 80 years ago. Of course, more and more Australians over the years, particularly up to the time of the decline in the value of Poseidon shares, were prepared to do just this. But it is a statistical fact that for every 50 small companies mounted to invest or to explore the potential of these ventures, only one is ever effective. If a person resells shares at a profit, under section 26a of the income tax legislation, it is very difficult to prove to the Taxation Office that that person ever invested for any reason other than speculation. If that person did speculate, then according to his income he can be taxed at a rate up to 30 per cent on the difference between what he paid for the shares and what he sold them for. This is having the effect of depreciating the amount of private capital invested in small Australian firms. 
I should like the Treasurer, when he gets his notes on the speeches that have been made in this Budget debate, to look at this question because I do not know that industry always comes good with the right corrective ideas in relation to this matter. There are problems concerning what happens to a capital loss if we are going to allow capital depreciation. There are problems which have been easily overcome in other countries but in respect of which we seem to have become quite bogged down, with our traditional taxation law. I believe that this is something at which the Government, in a relatively young and dynamic, nation such, as Australia, must look very carefully, because we have pride in our ownership of shares, houses, land, clothes and cars - as a nation we are probably second to none in this regard. If we ignore this question we do so at our peril and we will lose some of the dynamism that should go towards promoting this nation and the type of development that we need in the future. On our shoulders - on the Government's shoulders at this time - rests the destiny, in a very large way, of future generations of Australians. I hope, even if the Opposition does not do so, that future generations have the freedom, the surplus money and the means to invest in this nation so that it will progress towards the type of society that I know fundamentally all of us in this chamber tonight want. I voice my objection to the amendment and support the Treasurer in his first Budget with all the pride I can muster. 
1 address a question to the Minister for National Development. It relates to the alleged Japanese report on Australia's natural resources policy. Has the Minister any new or further information to give to the House in relation to this report? 
I support the Government's stabilisation scheme for the apple industry with no hesitation and with some degree of enthusiasm. Quite logically, I also do not support the amend-' ment of the Australian Labor Party for  a  single national marketing authority. 
It would take a long time, to answer that interjection but I will certainly do so. If the honourable member for Riverina took the opportunity to examine the costs of running marketing schemes on an Australian basis, he would come to the conclusion that historically these costs have been one of the biggest socks ever to our primary producers. If the honourable member wanted to do a little more research, rather than go off half-cocked, he could look at the history of this very industry with which this Bill in concerned. He would see what attitude the growers took to an apple and pear marketing board. I think that I am right to use the word 'marketing' in this context but if I am wrong I shall withdraw it. At any rate, they were hopelessly out of favour with it because it cost them, as primary producers, a lot of money to administer. That is one of my reasons for opposing the amendment, and it is only a start. I could go on from point to point on this subject. For' instance, I could tie in the remarks of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  with those of the honourable, member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie). 
As I understood him, the honourable member for Wilmot castigated the Tas-, manian Government for not acting unilaterally to establish a State marketing authority. If any honourable member wants to see the futility of such a proposal, I invite him to visit my electorate in South Australia and look at an organisation called the Citrus Organising Committee which is doing precisely what the honourable member for Wilmot is suggesting the. Tasmanian Government should do through a State authority.  His  proposal is futile for many reasons but principally because a single State authority cannot introduce a statutory board. A State cannot control the marketing of produce once State borders are crossed, let alone oceans. I would have thought that the honourable member for Wilmot would have been aware of that distinction and would have been fair enough to absolve the Tasmanian Government, about which I know very little but about which I repeatedly hear some good, from the effects of his futile thinking. That, patently, is exactly what he is up to in relation to this. 
I do not blame the Labor Party for one minute for trying to grab frantically for some new scheme, lt is very easy when one is in trouble to try to develop some form of new thinking. The only problem that exists at this point of time is that there are many States that will not agree with the honourable member who has moved the amendment. My own State would most certainly be one of them. The States would not agree to have some blue print forced on them by a hierarchical sort of authority such as the honourable member for Dawson probably has in mind. So let us not talk theoretical nonsense like this. The facts of the matter are that the producers of this country by and large do not want precisely what the Opposition today, by way of its amendment, is suggesting should be brought in. 
The honourable member for Wilmot did not mention, for instance, the varieties of apple that are not wanted overseas. Surely the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who is at the table, is correct when he draws the attention of the industry in general to some of the problems that exist within the channels of that industry. I am not expert on wharf costs, handling, palletisation or any form of loading apples, even cellular cartons but I do know these are used fairly substantially by co-operatives in South Australia. However, I do know that it is right to query whether we should be trying to foist on to the export markets of the world apples that are not required. I do know that this sort of thinking is common sense. I do know that transport and wage costs at wharf which I have just mentioned are important factors. For example, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  will not like it one bit when I point out my complete lack of understanding - and I remain unmoved by any argument against it - of unions demanding increased wage rates at wharves for loading apples. I cannot understand why the unions insist that their members require higher and higher wages for transport. I cannot for the life of me see why unions such as these insist on trying to grind an apple grower who is having a hard trot completely into the ground by virtually their own insular thinking. 1 would be interested to hear later the replies to these contentions. But these are things that the apple growers in my electorate are worried about. 
I rise in this debate on the Treasury Estimates to comment on taxation and I am encouraged to do so along some of the lines I have had in mind by the speech of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes).  The honourable member touched primarily upon section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act and commented that it was 10 years since the Ligertwood Committee made its report. He pointed out that matters of tax avoidance referred to specifically by the Ligertwood Committee had probably been dealt with by the Government in fields where the loopholes could be properly covered. He implied, if I did not get him wrong, that perhaps it was time another committee was set up to look into the whole field of taxation. He also analysed the importance of one field of taxation as against another. The honourable member spoke primarily of a capital gains tax as an alternative tax. He did not say that he was in favour of a capital gains tax, but he did say that the implications of it should be fully examined. 
I endorse the words of the honourable member for Berowra but I go further and say that I believe we would be quite wrong to ignore the new fields of taxation being opened in terms of the European Common Market and the future thinking of the United Kingdom insofar as a value added tax is concerned. So I would suggest that that field be included in any inquiry that is perhaps set up, as well as the field of capital gains taxation. Furthermore, there is another field that has been discussed fairly generally around the lobbies of this House and that is a net worth tax. There are 3 fields of taxation new to us in this country and one might well stop and say: 'Why should we look at them? Are we not one of the highest taxed countries in the world and should the people of Australia be subject to the raising of any more revenue by this means?' I am very grateful to see my friend on the Opposition benches, the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  nodding his head in agreement because the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  who specialise in their own fields, demand in this House from time to time - almost consistently, in fact - far greater Government expenditure in the fields in which they are involved. I do not stand here to deny them the right to do this. If I was sitting in the same place I would probably do the same thing because they do not have to worry about where the money comes from; all they do is worry where and how the money should be expended within their own fields. 
But if I might return to the. theme I was pursuing, the value in looking at alternative fields of taxation lies not necessarily in the need to raise more Government revenue - although it might well turn out to be so - but primarily, as I see it, in the capacity to  adi, ,st  between different fields of taxation. Unquestionably it could be argued and debated in this place that we may not be heading in the right direction nationally by exacting the dues that we do through death duties from small family enterprises. I do not know that anyone would logically argue against that premise that I put forward because I do not know that anyone in this House wants to accelerate the time when we move towards perhaps a more corporate - using it in one sense of the word - method of living as we perceive is happening in America today. I think we certainly do not want to hasten towards the average man working for the large corporation or, indeed, possessing a large corporation but I do see the fact that if one can juggle income tax as against death duties - whether they be State succession duties or Federal death duties or, thirdly, some alternative tax - then I believe that we can get more equity into the total field of taxation than we probably have today. What have we got today? We have income tax, as we are all well aware. It hits some sections of the population probably more harshly than it does others. We have death duties of which we are well aware, and we have indirect forms of taxation such as sales tax and highly illogical taxes such as excise, which I will deal with on another occasion. Added to these I believe it is possible, by inquiring into the desirability and the implications of a capital gains tax, a net worth tax and a value added tax, to develop more equity in the whole system. I support what the honourable member for Berowra said and I have added 2 more items to the inquiry that he suggested should be set up. I find myself in agreement with the honourable member for Bradfield rather than my honourable and gallant friend from North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  in the matter of what the Public Works Committee can or cannot do. I believe the Senate Estimates Committees are quite wrong in their attempts, between the time of the Budget and the time the Estimates are debated, to decide whether the expenditure set out is correct. No committee can act properly in this time. My own feelings are that any committee inquiring into estimates or expenditure should spend perhaps a year looking at how the estimates are compiled for the Departments of Defence or Social Services or Works. This to me would be the value of a committee on expenditure or estimates. However, I will ignore that now and go straight to the final remarks of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  He said, in effect, that in any inflationary period the tendency is for people to buy and sell things at a profit rather than to invest. 1 find myself in complete agreement with this and I would remind the House once again, as I have already during the general Budget debate, of the problems revolving around section 26(a) of our income tax legislation. I would like to quote from a letter I received recently. It states:   . . if a share has been purchased for the purpose of holding it for the income it produces there is no liability to income lax if the share is eventually sold at a profit. Bill how can any subscriber to a speculative mining float seriously claim that he has purchased the shares for the purpose of enjoying the income that the company will produce when at that stage the company has probably not even put a drill into the ground? History has indicated that if he purchased shares in SO speculative mining or oil exploration companies he might be lucky if one of them ultimately discovered an area of economic value and then earned profits. 
Section 26(a) is a relic of past thinking. It is not something that can encourage true Australian investment in our own development projects and the antithesis of this is that it encourages investment other than the investment of ordinary Australians. I have seen many people produce ideas to remedy this situation but I think it is up to the Government and the Treasury to find some method to utilise those important resources that at present are being wasted by the Australian people. Those resources are not being effectively harnessed to develop Australian projects. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I have been most interested to hear some of the views expressed tonight by members of the Australian Labor Party on the subject of tariffs. Might I hasten to add that neither by past record nor by interests could I be regarded as a free trader. But tonight, if I might suggest it, I have heard the opposite side of the picture to a rather unusual extent. My interest in tariffs goes back a good many years to the time when a former Minister for the Navy, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  first entered the Ministry. If I may say so, at that particular point in this Parliament's history tariff debates lost some of their sting because the honourable member for Wakefield was at least one member of this Parliament who did his homework fully on tariffs. 
He had no opposition. I can remember that for several sessions in succession after the honourable member for Wakefield became a Minister, I was the only member from this side of the chamber who rose to speak on tariffs. In those days the general picture in most debates on tariffs was that I would rise, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  - or the honourable member for Yarra, as he then was - would rise and so would the Leader of the Country Party, the right honourable John McEwen. At that time it was usually a triangular debate until this side of the chamber received the very great benefit of some people with brains and a capacity to work, who came into this Parliament and did their homework on tariff matters. 1 include as outstanding among these honourable members the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street). 
I can remember during those days the first period of intellectual honesty on tariff matters that came from the Opposition. This consisted, from memory, of 2 sessions of Parliament when the honourable member for Lalor completely changed his side and for once did not talk of protection regardless of all or of employment as a factor to be adopted as a philosophy in tariff debates. It did not take long before he dodged back into the over-protection fold of the Opposition. Those of us on this side of the chamber who have an interest in tariffs, as I had  -  I regret to say that I have not been able to continue with it - regretted the fact that the intellectual honesty displayed by that honourable member fell on evil times. From that time on the Opposition has not had a great deal to say in this Parliament on tariff matters. The subject of tariffs has been left largely to the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Corangamite; the debate has been between this side of the chamber and this side of the chamber. Very rarely has anything of consequence been said about tariffs by members of the Opposition. 
I know from private conversations that the thinking on the matter of tariffs of honourable members on the other side of the chamber who have not been here for very long is very much along the same lines as the thinking of many of us on this side of the chamber. I regret that tonight I have not heard them give voice to their thoughts and their true feelings on the degree of tariff protection desirable for Australia. Tonight we have heard a very garbled version from more than one  speaker  on this matter. 
I do not intend to take up the time of the Parliament much longer on this point. All [ wish to do is to deal briefly with some of the more basic principles which are involved in the matter of tariff protection so that they can be easily understood. I have never thought that employment should be a factor involved in an economic decision in a full economy, but I admit that that is a matter of judgment. One can think of the base chemical industries in the years gone by which were perhaps over protected 15 or 17 years ago. Only recently the highly effective Minister for Customs and Excise agreed that it was in the national interest that some of these cases should be looked at. This is a tremendous breakthrough. Those who forget these things and say, as I get the clear implication, that there should be overall protection for many industries regardless of anything do one great disservice if not more. The great disservice is not necessarily to the Australian work force. 
The disservice is not necessarily to the honourable member for Port Adelaid, who interjects, and not necessarily to the consumer durable and non-durable industries. But they do a very great disservice to the entire export potential of this nation. The export industries, whether they be secondary or primary, bear the brunt of over-protection. I am not standing here tonight to say that industries in Australia are over-protected. What I am standing here tonight to say is that I would have expected an intelligent Opposition to realise that there are some industries that need an inquiry into their particular level of tariff protection. That is all. That is just what I have not heard so far from the Opposition. 
May I initially, because I feel that the time allowed to honourable members to speak to the Estimates has been limited to too great a degree, touch very briefly on a side of the estimates for the Department of Education and Science which I have not heard anyone refer to until now. And what a gross oversight this would be if I am correct. I hope I am not. I refer to that part of the portfolio of the Minister for Education and Science which relates to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation. This Organisation comes within the jurisdiction of the Minister. I have not time, because of the many remarks made by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  to go as far as I would like tonight in relation to the CSIRO. Perhaps it would suffice to say that more and more electorates, including the electorate of Angas, must fall back on the technological experimentation and fundamental research carried out in Australia today by the CSIRO. 
Today we have more people available and more people susceptible to learning new techniques for their own sake and for the sake of the export industries they represent. I believe that we must look very carefully at the wide open field of practical handing on of new findings in the vacuum of extension work between fundamental research and the practical application of it to farmers and other industries in the use of this tremendous resource that is available in Australia today. I must leave this matter there because there are other subjects I wish to refer to relating to education. 
I would say that probably for the first time in the history of this country we now have federally a much more balanced approach to the whole problem of education. I refer primarily to the importance, in my view, of the Australian Council for Educational Research. I would say that more and more meetings of this Council will become - if they have not already done so - the common meeting place at which discussions will be had on State and Federal responsibilities in the vast field of education. I believe that it is of profound importance to this country for not only State and Federal Ministers for Education but also the officers in their departments to meet, discuss and negotiate on areas of need. One subject, for instance, that the Opposition is not very fond of when Government supporters mention it and which obviously needs research is the problem of class size. 
Not long ago when the Minister mentioned this, I think during a second reading speech the Opposition howled its fury. Nevertheless, we do not know at this point of time whether it is to the benefit of children - not teachers but children - that class sizes should be smaller, as we have all accepted for many years they should be. The results of investigations in the United Kingdom suggest that in that area at any rate there could well be a case for saying that most progress is made by students in classes of a size that perhaps would not be acceptable in this country. I am not saying that this would be appropriate in our environment. I am just pointing to this as an example of the sort of research that must be carried out in this country under our conditions, not under the conditions in Czechoslovakia, England,  Ireland  or Scotland. That is only one example of the very many matters that need proper study and research in this country so that we can make the best use of the resources that are available to us. 
I suppose the honourable member for Barton had as much fun as a member of the Opposition can have by talking endlessly about the importance of the survey of educational needs. Many of us accept that there is a lot of merit in the statistics behind the report of the nation-wide survey of educational needs, but there are very many things taken into account in this report that one might say are not essential to the nation's needs. Looking back, when this Government so correctly brought in its austerity campaign, if you like to call it that, 6 months ago it was right, for instance, that we should expect the State governments, whose level of expenditure had not been affected, to do something about looking at their own economies. One matter about which I would like to tell this House very briefly, a matter which concerned me very much at the time, is the sort of matter that State governments must be aware of and must try to remedy. It concerns a small country school which had a water tank that was leaking. The Department of Works in its full glory, armed with many people, trucks and facilities, came to the school to patch up a tank. It took down a tank that perhaps was only 10 feet high and 3 feet in diameter and put up a tank which was 4 feet high and 8 feet in diameter, or whatever the measurements were. Of course, this took time. The men had to lift the old tank off and empty it and weeks went by during which time there was no water laid on at the school. I might mention that it was not the Commonwealth Department of Works which was involved. 
After many weeks of trial and tribulation, what happened? The Department installed the new and squatter tank in place of the higher tank and when it hooked up the piping system it found that water would not run through it. They had carted water from many miles away to fill the tank in order to see whether water would run out of it. Finally the Department had to install a pressure system in order to pump water from the new tank into the system and out of the taps at the other end. As one would imagine, this took some weeks more. After having got the whole system working by virtue of having to replace the entire piping in the school to cope with the considerably lower tank, the Department decided 4 weeks later, the job having taken months of solid work, to do away with the country school. One hopes that in time to come, when grants are to be made *.o State or local authorities or any other body, someone will ensure that the system is efficient. I am not so sure myself, nor have I ever been, that retired or senior school masters are the right people to administer State departments of education. Unquestionably many of us can think of such people we regard as competent in this field but I would bet my last dollar that there are many who are not competent. There are probably good teachers, well respected, worthwhile people in the community, but they are not people who should involve themselves in the administration of what is becoming an enormous business. 
One of the problems for us as a national government, having taken over quite quite recently some of the more important responsibilities for education throughout the nation, hinges around this same observation. I would do nothing but laud  Sir Hugh  Ennor and many of the people who work in the Department of Education and Science here. I think they are utterly magnificent. But what we must do more and more is to bring in people trained to administer big instrumentalities efficiently. I am not so sure at this point of time that we have got even close to the effective use of our resources. People such as the honourable member for Barton can say that we should be finding many millions more for education but they do not tell us where we should get this money. In my view the population of Australia is taxed fairly heavily today and, quite frankly, I think the answer to this problem lies very much in our capacity as a Government to take further advice from people of competence, people who are capable of giving governments, both State and Federal, a proper grounding. The equivalent of costbenefit analyses in terms of the new structure that I mentioned at the start of my speech tonight are of grave importance to teacher education in this nation. 
Is the Minister for Education and Science aware that his colleague, the Minister for Education in South Australia, has said that additional money for education can come from only one source, the Commonwealth? Does he regard this type of statement as being a wildly inaccurate statement of the facts? Is he aware that this remark was made in a letter that went out to all school committees in that State? Finally, does he regard this sort of statement as being an attempt to indoctrinate young people who do not know the facts as they should be known? 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was the insistence of Taiwan that there should be no division of the Chinese nation an important factor in the great discrepancy between the for and against votes on the final resolution from Albania? Secondly, would the Minister agree with the suggestion that if this had not been insisted upon by Taiwan, or is not insisted upon in the future, an opportunity would still exist for Taiwan's membership of the United Nations? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Angas respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that section twenty-six of the National Service Act 195 1-1968 be repealed. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, respectfully sheweth: 
That being concerned with the environment of Adelaide in the State of South Australia and the growing noise nuisance of the. Adelaide Airport the petitioners pray that no action will be taken whereby the Department of Civil Aviation will be permitted to extend runways at the Adelaide Airport at its existing location or over other adjacent land. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I thank the House. That chart shows that Nairne Pyrites went on to become by far the largest producer of pyrites in Australia. The table makes that quite plain. The company has played its part responsibly according to the Government's wishes during the 1950s, to the benefit of this nation. It was formed at a time when the price of sulphuric acid, indeed brimstone, was extremely high on the markets of the world. Quite apart from the high cost of brimstone at that time, the price fluctuations were so violent as to be a source of disquiet to any government looking seriously for instance, at the importance of superphosphate as an adjunct to efficient farming. So this Government did those things. In 1960, as I understand it, the Government ceased its policy of actively encouraging the use of indigenous sulphur-bearing materials. It is of interest to hark back to the Tariff Board report and look at the terms of reference of the inquiry the report of which was so criticised by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies). 
You go back to the wharf and criticise there before you start butting in on something you know little about. The first term of reference referred to the Government's obligations to those enterprises which installed capacity on or before 1st December 1960. In other words, that point I am trying to bring out now became important even in those terms of reference. It was at that time that the Government altered its policy and steered in a slightly different direction. By and large the production of pyrites has continued and, if I might get back to the Tariff Board report, it was on 20th June 1960 that a bounty was paid to pyrites producers as well as acid producers. I think the House has already been given by the honourable member for Braddon the statistics involved in the bounty and their correlation with the price paid for supplies of pyrites at that time, so I will not go into that side of it. 
The town of Brukunga, which is close to the site of Nairne Pyrites, was the site of this pyrites mine. This town has grown over the years, with the help of the State governments and great help from the companies concerned, into a very good mining town of its type. The facilities provided have been good. From time to time I have visited this company and have been shown around and there has been a very happy association of people in that company. Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd is the acid manufacturing plant in Adelaide where the supply of pyrites went for treatment and there was a time some months ago when it was probably desirable from the point of view of the entire integrated industry that the Government should have made up its mind whether it would remove the bounty or whether it would be continued. This was 6 months to 9 months ago. The reason for this was that close by in the locality of the township of Brukunga a new mining venture commenced which was the copper mine at Callington and there was the opportunity not only for manpower but also for' the facilities at Brukunga to become involved in this venture. 
If the honourable member would keep quiet for a minute I will be able to make my speech. This point was put to me by various members of the 2 companies concerned. If the Government had made up its mind the facilities could have been transferred with a certain amount of harmony between the 2 areas. This was not done and, in the meantime, the Tariff Board report was tabled. 
For those who have not read this report, it advises the Government to do certain things. The Government, in the case of compensation, agreed with one section of the Tariff Board's report. However, the Government was more generous than that section, of the report indicates. It allowed a cooling off period or whatever it might be called of 12 months to enable further rationalisation of the position by the 2 companies concerned, namely SAPL the acid firm in Adelaide, and Nairne Pyrites, the pyrites mining industry at Brukunga. This action by the Government has been well received by various Board members and the industry generally. I notice the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  does not agree with me. I cannot help that. The people who have been to see me have been very appreciative of this extra time which they have been given to rationalise their activities. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for refuse, who does not seem to know what goes on and whose head is entirely empty and very resonant, constantly astounds me. I wonder whether someone so expert in the matter of chucking muck around and butting in impolitely on another member's speeches repeatedly in this House would not be better off out of it and whether, indeed, a person called Ian Wilson would not more accurately represent the area of Sturt. The honourable member has nothing in common with the plurality of interests of his electorate. 
At that time, the Government, as I have described, decided to give a cooling off" period of 12 months to enable the companies to rationalise their position. Contrary to the remarks that I have heard from honourable members opposite, the companies have been pleased that they have been given extra time te rationalise their position. I have a letter from which I should like to quote. It was directed to a government department which is in charge of compensation. The letter states: 
It should be clearly understood that we- 
That is, the company -  do not regard the provision of this information 
The information being the complete list of assets used in the production and sale of pyrites -  - in the form requested to be a satisfactory basis  for determining compensation. Quite apart from questions related to the depreciated value we point out that there are other matters which must be considered such as our obligations- . 
That is, the companies themselves -  to rehabilitate the land, settlement of our contract with the South Australian Housing Trust, sale expenses, employee severance payments, landowners' loss of grazing, loss of bounty and other consequential losses and damages suffered by the Company. 
The honourable member for ' Braddon properly referred to some of these items in his speech a little while ago. The letter continues: 
We are at present investigating the above matters in detail and would strongly recommend that the previously suggested visit ... be made  by  you. 
As far as I have been able to ascertain, the company, which is in my electorate, has been properly covered. I do not know whether this is so in the dealings of the Government with every company involved in this matter of the Government's decision on the Tariff Board's report but I do know that the good will which exists between the companies concerned on the one hand and the Federal Government on the other is of a high order. Perhaps I can finish my remarks- 
When your verbal diarrhoea has quite dried up let me know, because I would be awfully bored if it did not get going again. 
In spite of the provocation I am receiving, might I say that at Brukunga about one-third of the people in the township ar: now working for the copper mining firm at Callington. Not quite one-third of the people living at Brukunga are working on. the new water main coming through from Murray Bridge to Adelaide and slightly more than one-third are working with Nairne Pyrites at Brukunga. As I mentioned, the good will which exists between the company and the Government is very high and I trust that the negotiations on all the matters that I have mentioned when I quoted the letter will be satisfactorily brought to a head. 
There remains only one other thing that I should say and that is that it is by no means a certainty that production will cease at Brukunga. Already, various avenues are under exploration to see whether the article produced there is competitive in other markets. I think the Government has taken what can be regarded as a difficult decision in a matter which concerns my electorate with some courage and patience in its dealings with the companies concerned. The companies concerned, of course, have co-operated to the best of their ability for the sake of the nation to meet the wishes of the Government as expressed in the 1950s. In my inquiries with the company and in all discussions I have had with it, it seems that there will be no difficulty in replacing any of the labour force that works at Brukunga. 
The honourable member would not know whether it is true or not. 1 have been assured by the company that it is true and I am assured that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd will find jobs at Whyalla for any persons who may become redundant in the local area. I appreciate that not everybody may wish to go to Whyalla. 
There is another matter I should like to mention in passing. When I last had someone in my office looking for a job I sent him to Brukunga and he was put on immediately. The local manager,  Mr Hammer,  and his board have been very generous in their treatment of me and in giving me information in relation to their problems. I can see very little difficulty involved in the transfer of employees. I seem to be staggering from one conclusion to the next so I will make one more remark, which is probably not very important, in order to help honourable members. Having in mind the. programme, I will confine my remarks at this stage- 
I congratulate the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  for being far more accurate than usual and for keeping more in line with the Bill that we are discussing. After all, he only dealt with Clutha Mines and then proceeded to say that a copper mine at Kanmantoo had been closed for 100 years. I suppose that is fair enough and I should not worry about it, but the fact is that a company, of which BHP South is one  of  the main shareholders, has re-opened the Kanmantoo copper mine. Kanmantoo is within 6 miles of Brukunga. The honourable member for Sturt is completely oblivious to what is happening. This activity is costing the State Government a considerable sum, but it is a fine mine. It will go into production within a matter of months and will absorb much local labour. Admittedly 100 years ago there were some mines in this area, but this is an entirely new mining venture of great significance to South Australia. Despite the indenture agreement which the honourable member for Sturt must have scrounged, I presume illegally from somewhere, and from which he read earlier - he was fortunate not to be asked to table it- this is a totally new and modern venture. I am very proud o' my electorate of Angas. I have traversed it more than once and I would be delighted to take the honourable member for Sturt with me the next time I visit the Kanmantoo area and explain to him some of the items of capital equipment there. That equipment is not 100 years old. I would be delighted to give him any information that I can. 
I am getting a little fed up with members of the Opposition speaking without taking any cognisance of the economic facts of some industries, whether they be in my electorate, the electorate of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  or anywhere else, and saying that there are problems of redundancy. When jobs are available they suggest that the Government is doing something dishonest. This. I think, is the favourable phrase of the honourable member for Sturt. What we should be doing as a national Parliament is looking to the proper economic use of industry. This emotional nonsense, posing, pretending and trying to whip up emotion instead of applying practical common sense when talking of the future economic expansion of Australia, is of no great credit to those who have been engaging in it. I do not think any one takes a bigger pride in the industries in my electorate than I do, and I will stick up for them, but it is well known by all members of those industries that when the price of brimstone on the world markets drops right away there will be no long term future for those industries. Many of my friends in that area have left 
Brukunga and have gone to other industries already. I think it behoves all members of Parliament not to get carried away with emotion but to realise that where government funds have been involved we have in this Parliament surely a vested interest to make sure that our resources arc utilised properly. I know that the majority of members in this chamber think accurately along those lines. I abhor this attempt to play politics in relation to this matter before us today. 
Did the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry notice a report some time ago from New Zealand by a  Mr Hawke,  stating that New Zealand butter should be allowed freely into Australia? In view of the importance of tie dairying industry and in view of  Mr Hawke's  proven capacity to influence Opposition thinking, will the Minister treat the matter seriously enough as to give assurances to the Australian industry - the second most efficient in the world - that this course of action will not occur under this Government? 
I am pleased that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has raised the question of corrosion because it has been of particular interest to me in recent weeks. My interest stems from the fact that a certain firm, whom I shall not name, approached me and said: 'You have a car which is not perhaps of such light build as some other cars. We would like to treat the underneath body work of your car at no cost to try to prove a point'. This work was done last week. I suppose many honourable members have, over the years, thought of corrosion and its action on a vehicle that they prize and that they expect to last for some time. I remember very clearly taking action to combat the problem of corrosion when I was on a scholarship in England. I purchased a car which I intended to bring back to Australia and I took every protective measure possible. As far as I know that car is still merrily motoring along. In those days the way of tackling corrosion, particularly under-body work, was by the application of some bituminous product. With hindsight one can say that this substance unquestionably caused cracking in Australia's extremes of weather. It hastened corrosion and the consequent destruction of the vehicle. 
The honourable member for Dawson mentioned also modern plastic coatings which not only do not crack in Australian extremes of temperature but which also are far lighter. I may touch on the powerweight ratio a little later because this obviously is an important factor in the economics of building modern vehicles. If this matter of corrosion had not been raised tonight by the honourable member for Dawson I probably would have asked a question about it tomorrow, but I would have tried to base that question on the cost to the nation, particularly the public sector of the nation. I do not know, but I believe, as obviously the honourable member for Dawson does, that there is much the Government should do in relation to vehicles which are manufactured or assembled in Australia. There is an enormous field of waste in the governmental sector if we consider the fleets of Commonwealth cars which are scattered throughout the Commonwealth; the Commonwealth trucks and utilities which are operating throughout the Northern Territory and the literally thousands of vehicles on Commonwealthowned properties throughout Australia. Also affected by corrosion is the whole range of Commonwealth-owned defence equipment. 
During the war many honourable members no doubt saw the Americans putting guns and vessels to sleep, as it were, with plastic coatings and cacky goo which were intended to keep out oxygen and, therefore, corrosion. One can imagine that these preparations were effective. However today there are all sorts of preparations that one can use without putting a whole fleet in moth balls. These preparations can be used while the equipment or the car is being operated. They are anti-corrosion measures. It may well be that the Government is far ahead of the likes of me in thinking of the enormous costs that could be saved by protecting the millions of dollars worth of gear it owns. In case this is not so - this is why I was interested in the honourable member for Dawson bringing this matter to light - I take advantage of this debate briefly to bring to the notice of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  and. more particularly, to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  the need for taking proper protective measures against corrosion in all the hardware that this nation owns. 
Perhaps 1 may be permitted to branch away from my central theme. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Dawson refer to the Volvo car and to the fact that it was protected against corrosion. 1 understand that this is so. If one examines the life of motor vehicles manufactured throughout the world and not merely in Australia, it is clear that the Volvo is at the top of the list. 
Perhaps the honourable member is a turnip and not a swede. The car which is in second place is the Volkswagen, although I am not sure that the life of that vehicle can be related to protective measures taken either underbody or overbody. Probably another factor is involved, namely, the ready availability of the Volkswagen, so it probably is not relevant to our consideration of protection of surfaces.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  this is really all I have to say on the matter, but I am personally beholden to the honourable member for Dawson for refreshing my mind on the subject because I think it is not unimportantIf there is any way whereby the Government can, as I am suggesting, through the public sector, and, as the honourable member for Dawson is rather suggesting, through the private sector, save the taxpayers' money it is up to it to explore this topic and, if necessary, to do more about it than perhaps - and I cannot guarantee this - it is doing now. 
About 15 months ago the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  I and four others were in Cambodia. I want to refer to the statement that he made this afternoon, which I found extraordinary and which was the only one I objected to - too violently anyway. I do not think I am misquoting the honourable member when I say he suggested that this Government should not encourage more troops to go into Cambodia. I do not know quite what he meant because Australia does not have troops going into Cambodia and is not likely to have troops going there. I doubt whether anyone here would wish Australia to send troops into Cambodia. It was at that time 15 months ago that the honourable member for Wills with my complete support sent a telegram to the Australian Government and he requested - at the moment he seems to be a bit busy on the other side of the chamber - that we should send armaments to help the people of Cambodia to protect their own nation. 
One would hope not, becauseI do not feel that the honourable member for Wills usually changes his views so readily. The point I am trying to make quite clearly is this: It is of no earthly use saying that we should send government armaments to help a country retain its independence against some form of aggression if we are not allowed to give those armaments to the troops of that country itself because, obviously there are no othertroops that can be referred to in this context. SoI cannot understand where the honourable member for Wills really stands on this issue. 
AsI said a little while ago in answer to an interjection I referred to him as a reasonably sincere man who would stick to his view. If he was sticking to his view then I misinterpreted his form of logic. 
What I want to discuss briefly today is policy - policy on foreign affairs, our policy, the Opposition's policy, what policy is and what it should not be. There is no question that the foreign affairs policy of the Opposition at present has the people of this nation in an extraordinarily muddled frame of mind. One can quote, for instance, the Labor Party's spokesman outside this House - a man who had a large following, particularly in the intellectual circles of Australia. I refer to Professor Arndt. What has Professor Arndt had to say recently, following the Labor Party delegation's visit to China? He said: 
I have decided to resign because I regard  Mr Whitlam's  behaviour in his interview with Chou En-lai as, in every respect, contrary, to Australia's national interests. 
With a naivety astonishing in someone who hopes to become Australia's Prime Minister, he gave away in advance every bargaining counter that Australia has in future negotiations with China . . . ' 
I could read on because there is a lot more along that line. I have read that specifically because my idea of Government policy on any matter, but more specifically on foreign affairs, is that it must substantiate not only its sincerity in dealing with other people but also the national interest. Obvious though it may be, our national interests are the national interests of Australia, not those of South Africa, the South West Pacific Islands or Asia. As far as I am concerned, our national interests can be served only by talcing into account the proper treatment, proper health and proper aid for our neighbouring countries. Anything less than this would not be in the national interests of this country. 
To that extent I will go along with the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who mentioned morality. But the honourable member went right off the deep end in seeming to think that this Government, instead of being a government that has had a hand in fashioning SEATO, ANZUS, the Colombo Plan with all its ramifications for help, the Asian Bank, all the United Nations agencies, the Mekong scheme - to pluck one or two out of the air - and all the bilateral aid schemes, is a government that has in some way developed some policy that is wrong in relation to our relations with our next door neighbours. Quite contrary to that, I maintain that this Government has had a foreign affairs policy that has been consistent. No policy should dart from one reaction to another. If we had listened to members on the Opposition side, this is what our policy would now be. But it has been long-sighted enough to bias us a little bit here and there while maintaining its overall direction. 
The importance of maintaining its direction is so that we do not let down our friends and so that people will know what we stand, for. Policy cannot be something that can be turned on and off like a clock from one minute to the next. Policy must be consistent. I do not say that the Opposition has not from time to time come forward with good ideas. I do not say for one minute that from time to time back benchers of this Party have not come up with good ideas. I do not say that these good ideas have not been incorporated in Australia's foreign policy. But you cannot get anywhere nationally with your friends or anybody else by swinging from one policy to another. 
In contrast to these principles I advise honourable members to read the extraord inarily hard hitting article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' issue of Wednesday 14th July. I will not read out this article now, but it deals with issue after issue arising from  Mr Whitlam's  visit to China. The article is a hard hitting one and it points out that there was no cognisance taken whatsoever of our friends and dealings in  Mr Whitlam's  discussions with Chou Enlai. The Leader of the Opposition has given away every bargaining point we wanted. He has given away his own friends, such as Professor Arndt who has been one of the outside spokesmen on Labor Party policy. Let me return to this matter of policy. I maintain that our policy has bent to meet new circumstances, new ideas and new situations but it has retained its consistency. Not once, as far as I can see, has it been inconsistent. Not once has it let down the friends that this Government and the people of Australia must maintain. Seldom could it have been very much improved at any stage by some of the wilder ideas produced by the Opposition. 
I return to a point made by the honourable member for Wills a few minutes ago. He said that he believes there is no future threat to this country from the north. One would hope that he is right. On the other hand the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  by way of interjection said there will be no threat from the north so long as we are prepared. The honourable member for Wills, if I remember rightly, denied that principle. He did not think that being prepared was particularly important. I am sure I am not misquoting him. This just gets back to where I started in relation to the defence arm as the servant of foreign affairs and its policy. There is no doubt, and history will prove it over and over again, that no matter how much any one of us abhors war, horror, slaughter, injury, wounding or anything else, the nation which protects its own interests by being prepared has a form of national insurance. I am quite sure that the people of Australia have over the years acknowledged the importance of this form of national insurance. I would think that this is one of the policy differences that have really developed in this country and it is one that we on this side are not ashamed to be quite open about in our dealings with the people of Australia - in contra-distinction to some of the wobbling of Opposition policy at this stage. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there appears to be an anomaly in the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act in as much that concessions are given to the agricultural industry for persons engaged in cereal grow-' ing for the purchase of Machinery and Plant (and parts therefore) for use in the bulk handling of grain, which is exempt from Sales Tax (Item 112). 
Thai no such concession is given to vignerons to change to bulk  handling of grapes although wineries are equipped to receive grapes by such means of handling and demand such a change. 
That in view ot the rapidly rising costs in the wine industry, and the .need for growers to cut delivery costs to a minimum, this concession should be allowed for the increasing use of bulk handling equipment by vignerons. 
Thai equipment such as telescopic or underbody hoists which are used on vignerons' vehicles, and being the main equipment for the bulk handling of grapes, and other such equipment although not being a class of goods of a kind which are used exclusively in agricultural industry, that these goods be exempted from Sales Tax if they are to be used exclusively, primarily, and principally, in the agricultural industry by persons (namely vignerons) engaged in that industry. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act and cause such Machinery and Plant which can be used by vignerons for bulk handling of grapes to be included in that Act as an exemption. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Angas respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military ser vice under the National Service Act 1951-196o is arrived at by, a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their dale of birth. 
And that this procedure providing by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of (heir respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 bc repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I move - 
That Parliament abolish wine excise because (a) the grape grower section of the industry is bearing, and is likely to bear, the main burden of the tax, (b). it has caused damage through being the most important factor in a strong downturn in sales and (c) it is largely self-defeating. 
In the 1970 Budget for the first time an excise was brought down on table wines at the rate of 50c a gallon. I do not think that anybody doubted the right of the Government to so impose for revenue purposes a tax on an alcoholic beverage. In fact, as long as patterns of consumption were not disturbed it would not be a tax on the industry but on the consumer. All South Australian members of my Party made their views well and truly known at that time. But the consumption was disturbed and at the present time, in round figures, wine in stock - at the rate of 66 million gallons - is at a dangerous, all time high level considering the low intake from poor harvests during the last year. I will deal with storage capacity later. 
Up to 25,000 tons of grapes could lie surplus in South Australia after the 1972 harvest. Consumption trends are down 11.5 per cent on the 1971 estimates, based on wholesale sale figures compiled by the Commonwealth Statistician, and down on assessed trends on clearance statistics for excise yielding purposes by 27 per cent. Whereas the Government budgeted for an excise yield, for the 10 months remaining in 1970-71, of $ 12.5m, the yield was only $9.25m. The industry growth prior to the advent of the tax had been about 1 1 .8 per cent per annum. Although the authentic figure is the clearance for excise figure, it will be my intention by and large during the next few minutes to use the less accurate but more conservative figure based on wholesale sale statistics. It is hard to attribute blame for this downturn in consumption to any factor other than excise. Its application could represent a tragic situation for growers of wine grapes in the coming harvest. 
It was also a tragedy, in my view, that it was introduced as an excise or a tax on volume, and not as a tax on value. Thus, in one extreme instance - I stress the word extreme' - a winery selling a 1,000 gallon tank of white wine at $1 a gallon pays excise at the rate of 50c a gallon on that wine as it moves from my State to, say, the Hunter Valley or perhaps from the area of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to the Hunter Valley. There is a 50 per cent increase in price immediately, without any industry mark-up. By comparison, an expensive red wine, perhaps stored in wood for 2 years, or a bottle of champagne, rise in price by about 5 per cent over this period of time. So not only have the traditional cheap fortified wines been discriminated against but, worse still, so has the very growth factor of the industry - flagon table wines. 
As the load on the industry was unevenly spread so did the excise discriminate more against some areas than others. The great table wine and champagne manufacturing companies could continue on their merry way relatively unhindered, but sales from those very firms responsible for the industry growth - the producers of bulk and flagon wines - have virtually had their sales brought to a standstill. The biggest single winery in Australia, in spite of immediate action to redirect and rationalise sales, has little capacity for the coming year's harvest, nor have the other 3 co-operative factories around it. These firms are in my electorate and are owned by the community as shareholders. In spite of an enormous increase in advertising by the industry and by this firm, and in spite of a low intake last year, a growing surplus exists in the industry. The major cause of this surplus has been the downturn in sales, and the cause of this has been the altered competitive position brought about entirely by this excise. The storage statistics for all wines, excluding brandy and distillation wines, make plain the problem of an increasing surplus. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard a table setting out these statistics. 
-! was most interested to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  point out the difficulty of trying to come to grips with problems affecting war service land settlement when on the one hand he is told that nothing can be done because it is the Commonwealth's responsibility and on the other hand he is told it is the State's responsibility. T would agree with him to a point and point out that my main difficulty has been when I have been, told that it was the responsibility of both the State and Commonwealth governments because that is sometimes very hard indeed to sort out. Perhaps it is only right that I should say with some pride that with the Upper Murray Ex-Servicemen's Land Settlement Association, which is. in my electorate, I succeeded on one well-known occasion in getting both the Federal Minister and the State Minister at the same table at the same time, and we discussed mutual problems. This was considered a great breakthrough and one that I was delighted with personally, and I am sure the Association felt that they also were taking part in history. 
I intend to be just as parochial as my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said he was not going to be because I think at this time I can afford to be. I do not have to talk of these things on a national scale or in a visionary way as perhaps he feels he should and I say unashamedly that 1 am delighted that this Bill has come forward. I am delighted that out of the $4m that is allocated through the raising of loan moneys $1,683,000 will be made available to South Australia and, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  suggested, principally to toe area of Loxton which is in the top end of the electorate of Angas. This has been a successful scheme, by and large. I will not comment on it in detail except to say that I agree with much that has been said before. 
The faults that have occurred in this area are the faults of trying to discover whether a good settler has not done well because he is on a bad block, whether a medium settler has done just medium well because he is on a medium block, or whether we have a bad settler doing quite well on an extremely good block. It is difficult to know all these things. If I have time later on I intend to bring up the case of a  Mrs Pring  who I think has had a pretty raw deal all round. But before I do that 1 think it is right that we just note in passing that in the Loxton area the reason for these funds being made available was to make advances to settlers to provide adequate working capital to cover current working expenses and adequate capital funds for replacement of plant. Most settlers under the war service land settlement scheme started on their holdings with little or no capital of their own. These points were set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  and I would comment in passing that a precondition to application was that no means and no capital reserves should not be a bar to successful application for a war service block. That has been a principle that settlers have held dear over many years., I think it is most noticeable, though this was not said by the  2  previous speakers, that not only were those who got their blocks early when prices were better in relation to costs successful but also that those who went on to their blocks with a bit of capital have tended, quite logically, to be more successful than those who did not. 
One ponders whether the precondition that lack of capital should be no bar to successful application has applied properly to some settlers with just as much capacity as perhaps the man next door. But that is a matter of opinion and could probably be debated at length. Towards the end of the Minister's second reading speech he pointed out: 
Expenditure on development is mainly on continuing work on block drainage for irrigated horticultural holdings in the Upper Murray region of South Australia and on the irrigation headworks, including channels and pipelines, which supply water to settlers on holdings at Loxton in South Australia. 
The last  2  points interest me very much. Firstly, the Minister said that some drainage work is to be carried out in Tasmania as well as at Loxton in South Australia. I notice that when leases are surrendered - I will again touch on this matter when I run through the several successful matters that the Land Settlement Association and f have taken up over the years - all drainage work ceases irrespective of whether the block is taken over by an ex-serviceman on private treaty. Secondly, the Minister said that a small sum is required for some reconstruction work to bring a few of the later developed farms to the planned level of productive capacity. It was for this reason that some time ago, after many letters to and fro and being egged on by the Upper Murray organisation, I sought and was able to get agreement from the Government on the amalgamation of blocks. That agreement really came about as a result of 2 separate negotiations. The first problem which we successfully overcame was the allowing of a settler to take over by way of private treaty the mortgages and general commitments of another settler. Having established that as a fact, we then thought that we should try to get the approval of the Government to allow settlers to be given first option at the reserve price on blocks for which the leases had been surrendered and which were due to go to auction prior to those blocks going to auction. This permission was duly granted earlier this year by the Minister.  1  would like to touch on some of the views I hold in relation to this matter. Firstly, I do not believe it is of much use for the Government to say that it believes in areas becoming more viable and that farmers should look either towards an increase in production in relation to their overhead costs or. if possible, adopt privately principles such as those espoused in the marginal dairy farms agreement or in the rural reconstruction scheme in the case of those blocks in the Upper Murray - I am now being parochial in the spot of which I am thinking - if it is not consistent in trying to achieve the same conditions for the people who wish to enlarge these blocks and become more viable. 
Let us look at the problems involved in the latter extension of the principle on which we got the agreement of the Government some time ago. First of all, when I last approached the State Government in South Australia it would not put up for auction any more soldier settler blocks that were surplus and for which the leases had been surrendered. It will not do so for the reason that it considers - 1 must say that I support it in this regard - that the reserve price placed on those surplus blocks is far too high to be considered reasonable. So a position of complete hiatus has been reached. Because the State Government in South Australia is not putting up blocks for auction - or it was not when I last inquired - ill will is being engendered. The settlers who have been waiting for some time - some of them have, amazingly enough, a 15 per cent deposit - to try to take over some of these blocks in order to enlarge their own holdings have not been able to do so. 1 put to the Government that it has a responsibility to be consistent in its actions in relation to this matter. It should try to help those people who want to help themselves and who want to make their farming enterprises more viable. 
The settlers have also listed the following points: Firstly, the reserve prices are far in excess of what they consider to be reasonable business propositions. This is supported by the State Government. Secondly, the 15 per cent deposit has certainly precluded many from bidding for blocks at previous auctions. Thirdly, the normal bank interest rates which apply at  H  per cent or whatever the bank interest rate is at this point of time, is considered to be a trifle too much. Fourthly, the farmers are expected to take over blocks that have been allowed to become run down. Talking about blocks being run down, the farmers see a lack of drainage concession on a new block as a factor that would add considerably to the cost before rehabilitation could properly be commenced. As soon as these properties reverted to the Crown, all drainage works ceased and no attempt was made to do any more than maintain minimum maintenance on the block. The Association also says that the 15 years - I think that that is the correct figure - is too short a period for the loan. 
Earlier in the letter to which I have referred the Association stated that it requested that the remainder of the term of the original mortgage be reasonable. I think that this is a reasonable request. This is exactly the condition that we obtained Government agreement on in the case of private negotiations for one settler taking over another settler's block. Now we have extended this principle so that they have an option to take over a block at the reserve price prior to the auction. In the case of a surrendered lease the same condition evidently does not apply. 
There are other matters with which I would like to deal. Perhaps I can cover them by saying this: Not only have the Association and I succeeded,, as I have already pointed out, in getting 2 Ministers, one from the Stale and one from the Federal Parliament, to meet and negotiate on problems affecting these farmers but not long afterwards we were also able to reach agreement with the Government for loans at a reasonable rate of interest in regard to under trees sprinklers. This was the time of great salinity problems in the River Murray. We also achieved a low rate of loan for drainage to overcome other problems of salinity in those areas. We have also had private negotiations which 1 have already mentioned. We have achieved the purchase of surrendered leases at the reserve price. Within the substance of the reasoning that 1 have just put forward I must say that every courtesy has been extended by officers of the Department and by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  in bringing these negotiations to a successful conclusion. 
 I did intend to go much more fully into other matters about which the Association was not happy at thus point of time. These matters include appeals for a review of valuations. Perhaps, in view of the interjection I might touch briefly on this point. Some of my constituents on these blocks have waited a great number of years for their interviews and inspections of their farms to lake place. The Association said in this letter which is dated 26th October 1971 that it had not heard any outcome whatsoever of the review referred to in that letter. The Association said that it was well over 12 months since the first batch of interviews had taken place after having waited 3, and sometimes more, years for that review to be instituted. 1 have inquired from time to time as to what has happened. I have not at this stage received an answer. I would like to receive an answer. 
The matter of arrears is also a problem that concerns the Association but I will leave this subject to one side and deal with lt on another day. I have already dealt with the subject of surplus properties and their disposal and surrendered leases. The matter of the living allowance will, I think, always be a constant running sore. If I may come back to my opening remarks made after the Deputy Leader of the Opposition concluded his speech I would like to say that it has never been a satisfactory procedure that 2 governments should be concerned with a closer settlement scheme whether it be for exservicemen or not. 
One of the limiting factors of any review, royal commission or anything else is that it would take in only the 3 smaller States with which the Commonwealth has joint responsibility. The big problem has been the joint sharing of responsibility. 1 do not think it has worked altogether to the advantage of settlers, lt- is time the Federal Government entered into negotiations with State governments to see under what conditions responsibility could be handed over to them. One thinks immediately of the disadvantages of obtaining capital amounts such as the amount wc are debating tonight. However I. believe it would be possible and desirable for the Federal Government to negotiate with a view to handing responsibility over to the States. There are too many difficulties involved in administration from this end and in joint administration. Ii is very hard to get efficient staff that can really give proper information to a Minister sitting in Canberra. The Department has been extraordinarily lucky over the years in having such a man doing most of the field work. He has advised in a good, tough, rugged and honest fashion. I gather that that is not to bc the position from now on. If 1 were the Minister 1 would negotiate lo see under what conditions the States would take over control. 
The ex-servicemen in my area will not be pleased to hear me being bludgeoned and bullied by a member of the Opposition front bench and asked to sit down before I finish putting a case for them. The Government also should consider fully whether some of the debt structure should be wiped off. I know that a lot of work has been done in relation to this. We have seen what has happened in other areas. I recall the cannery Bill which was debated in the closing stages of :he last Parliament. This Government got a canning firm out of a mess - we have perhaps one or two more to deal with - and saved it from having a crippling interest and capital repayment onus. Some of these settlers could be quite successful if they were given similar conditions and treatment. 
I congratulate the Government generally on the trouble it has taken and the meticulous way it has gone about trying to overcome some of these problems. 1 feel that we have had a certain amount of success but I ask for an even better capacity to overcome the problems. We on this side of the House in particular feel that these exservicemen should have special treatment from society for the service they rendered to the nation. 
I also support this Bill, as I have supported similar Bills in the past. It is not a good hour to be debating what I regard as an extremely complicated piece of legislation. Three major alterations are proposed to be made to the previous stabilisation scheme due to many representations from certain sections of the dried vine fruit industry over the last 2 years. The first stabilisation scheme, to which the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has referred, was the 1964-68 stabilisation scheme. I think that one point which has not come out in this debate but which should have come out is that at no stage did the growers during that scheme do other than pay into the stabilisation fund. This is a matter that for some unknown reason people seem to overlook. I have had it put to me by people in the community and by honourable members in this House that such a stabilisation scheme was another measure to try to soft soap primary producers. It was nothing of the sort. In fact, honourable members who have paid any attention to this matter know that the payouts at the end of the stabilisation period in 1969 were very extensive, which proves the point. The Government did not have to make these payments according to the legislation passed by this House - I think failure to provide for that was probably negligent enough of this House - but the Government properly honoured its commitment on moral grounds to the growers, and that was as it should have been. 
In 1969 at the end of that 5-year stabilisation scheme, for various reasons, including the fact that many growers became disenchanted with the scheme and not a high enough number of them voted for the new scheme, the scheme lapsed. It took a period of over 12 months in which people such as the honourable member for Mallee and I - I cannot talk with knowledge of others, but possibly there were some - tried to exercise what influence we could by way of representation to the Federal Government to get another stabilisation plan produced for the sake of the growers in the areas of the 2 honourable members I have just mentioned. This was not easy because no government likes to feel that a scheme it has put forward after a great deal of work has been turned down, particularly if it feels it has been turned down capriciously, although I do not think that was so. What I believe happened was that at this point of time the signatories to the International Sultana Agreement, to which this country was a party for many years together with Greece and Turkey - of all the unlikely countries to be associated on anything - following a meeting chaired by  Sir Eugene  Gorman stabilised the entire dried fruits industry on world markets by the successful operation of the International Sultana Agreement. I think at least one of those countries and possibly both were always fairly suspect as regards cutting the margin for certain types of wholesale deals on markets in Europe. Now that the Agreement is in complete disarray I expect that it is fair enough to say that Australian producers were always suspicious of this. Be that as it may, the point is that the parties to the International Sultana Agreement have now met and resolved that the Agreement be no longer effective. In the latter stages meetings of parties to the Agreement were even chaired by a non-signatory to the Agreement, a producer from the United States of America. 
That is the history against which this new stabilisation plan was introduced into this Parliament today. I do not think any honourable member tonight has had the opportunity to put on record the various principal features of the scheme. At this hour of night I do not think I will either, but I will use my time fully without doing that. I will mention the major differences between this scheme and the other one because I think they are of great consequence to the architects of the scheme and to the growers concerned. The first major difference is that under the new scheme the maximum rate of bounty applicable if the Commonwealth contribution is involved is $23 a ton. This ceiling did not form part of the earlier scheme. The amount was certainly not $23. That is a major point of difference and a point of difference that has pleased growers in my electorate quite substantially. 
The second point of difference - this has always concerned one section of the industry more than the others - is that where the bounty is payable in respect of a season's transaction, the Government will now make an advance payment against the industry's bounty entitlement. As I say, some sections of the industry will be particularly pleased about this and I am sure that all sections of the industry will give the Government great credit for this change in the old stabilisation scheme. It will provide a type of assistance to help growers' financial seasonal operations which has become a very difficult matter for them in terms of the increasing debt structure of many growers in relation to their co-operatives and companies to which they supply the raw material. 
The third point of difference is a matter of repayments from the completed stabilisation scheme or when contributions to the funds prior to that point become greater than the maximum. Under the old scheme, repayments from the funds came from the excess portions of the funds and were taken on a first in and first out basis. This new scheme has become more sophisticated insofar as a proper look at proportional payments being made to the fund by all people will be taken into account. Those are the 3 major differences. The 3 Bills before the House enable the machinery for the stabilisation scheme to be set up. By this time, I think honourable members know what those 3 separate Bills are. The Opposition spokesman on these matters has moved 2 amendments in relation to one Bill, the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection 
Bill. From memory, these are the same 2 amendments that were moved last year, the year before or whenever we last looked at this sort of legislation. I imagine that the amendments will be defeated for the same reasons they were defeated on that occasion. It seems to me to be logical and very much in the interests of the industry that they should be defeated. 
Before I continue too much further in looking into the problems of a Government subvention of funds into a stabilisation scheme of this type, let us first acknowledge that this scheme does not, I would anticipate, have the same effect as the previous one. There will be no pay-in to this scheme, as far as one can see, on current market trends. So this subvention in the region of $6m which could be the anticipated cost of the entire 5-year period with which this scheme is concerned becomes a matter that we should study a little more fully. I suggest that we should look at it from at least 2 points of view. The first point of view is: What is the market potential for the industry in the future? 
Without going deeply into the question, I refer honourable members to the excellent annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. At page 8 the Board deals with the future outlook for the dried fruits industry under 9 headings. It continues to deal with the competition from other producing countries, such as the United States of America, Greece, Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, South Africa; Spain and others. What the Board does not say here - perhaps it might well have said it - is that in many ways stabilisation schemes such as this one in the past have set price levels which have encouraged countries with far lower costs of production to increase that production. Unquestionably, in many ways this has cut across Australia's interests. I do not know what the answer is to this problem, but in passing I pose the problem. Furthermore, the problem of rates of duty to apply in the future when the United Kingdom joins the European Economic Community is legion. I seek leave to have incorporated a table - it will save me talking quite so much - from page 20 of the annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board dealing with Commonwealth preferences. 
My electorate and I welcome the introduction by the Government of these measures to assist the canneries referred to in the Bills before the House. I intend to refer specifically to Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd as it affects my own area. My personal involvement with this measure goes back some time to 12th November 1968 when I wrote to the State Minister for Agriculture, at that time a  Mr Story,  suggesting that perhaps he could apply for a section 96 grant in relation to the particular difficulties with which that factory was faced. I think that the next step probably was made on 25th February 1969 when in answer to other letters I received a lengthy and very detailed letter from the  Deputy  Prime Minister of the time,  Mr McEwen.  I. intend to refer to that letter in a short while. The next relevant date was 1970 when the Ives interdepartmental committee was set up to look into the problem associated with canneries. In 1971 we received this welcome decision by the Government on top of assistance made available to the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd affecting Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd and Riverland Co-operative. The original reason for the commencement of this chain of events relates primarily to the market development allowance which the canned fruit industry set up for a variety of purposes. 
As it affected the Riverland cannery the market development allowance funds were used heavily to promote Australian peaches in competition with American canned fruit, in particular on the West German market. It was in 1967, for instance, that Australia made heavy sales of canned peaches in West Germany at very low prices. The results of these sales, which were heavily underwritten by the payment of the market development allowance, were twofold. Firstly, the Australian Canned Fruits Board incurred a debt in its market development allowance fund which, apart from requiring government legislation to facilitate amortisation, meant that rates of market development allowance payment in 1968 had to be reduced. I understand that the Australian Canned Fruits Board decided in December to pay the market development allowance on 1968 sales at an interim rate of 671 per cent of the 1967 rates. The second result of the heavy sales to Germany in 1967 was a threat of retaliatory action by the United States. The United States, the traditional and major supplier to the German market, considered that Australia's substantially increased share of the market the year before had been won through the assistance of a government subsidy - the market development allowance. 
Whilst arguing that the market development allowance arrangements did not represent a subsidy in terms of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Government was unable to sway the United States from its determination to retaliate by introducing a direct subsidy itself by way of so-called section 32 funds in America unless steps were taken substantially to modify the Australian system. I am sure the House will appreciate that a subsidy to the American industry would have had the most severe repercussions for our own Australian industry. The Government was able to avoid the threatened retaliation by the United States only by agreeing at a meeting in Washington in July of that year to suspend the payment of the market development allowance on the export of canned peaches to our major markets. 
The problem which resulted from that action will be more easily understood by the House when I refer to the fact that while in the case of the Victorian section of the industry canned pears represent the largest and most important section of the exported product, in South Australia, and particularly in the case of the Riverland Co-operative, by far the largest export component is canned peaches. I hope that the House will recall, from the remarks which I made earlier, that it was canned peaches in particular that were hit by the series of events which I have just described. To illustrate the difficulty which faced the Riverland Co-operative company I will quote some estimated production figures. The estimated ultimate production potential of that company of canning fruits is 10,000 tons of apricots, 35,000 tons of peaches and only 5,000 tons of pears. That Co-operative has a total potential capacity of 50,000 tons of fruit. 
The growth of this company, which was formed only in 1959, represents another problem which puts it completely out of comparison with the older traditional canning companies of Victoria. The amount of money borrowed and the tremendously rapid expansion of that company have been other contributing causes of its problems in terms of liquidity. Before following on with this theme I will just point out the third reason for that company's problems. The Australian Government in its negotiations under GATT at an earlier stage had to take away a certain proportion of the preference granted to tinned peaches but not to pears, fruit salad, etc. The preferential tariff was removed as it affected entry into both Canada and the United Kingdom. The fact of the matter is that at this stage the Riverland Co-operative has been granted this assistance which amounts to $1.8m. This amount of money is to be made available, by agreement, by the Federal Government and the South Australian Government, with each Government contributing equally towards the assistance offered. 
There has been some talk in this debate about the fact that no conditions apply in the granting of this assistance. I have to hand letters that deal with an agreement agreed to by the State Bank of South Australia on the one hand, operating through an Act called the Loans to Producers Act, and the agreement between the Riverland Co-operative company and the South Australian Government through its banking instrumentality. The conditions in that agreement are: Firstly, the Co-operative has acknowledged that the debt continues on the basis that so long as the Co-operative acts in a manner and to an extent considered reasonable by both governments no interest or capital repayment should be required by the State Bank for a period of 20 years. Thereafter new conditions may be set. Secondly, from the freeing of commitments in this way, 4 per cent of this otherwise interest-free loan must not be disbursed to growers but must be held for the purpose of crediting an amortisation reserve. Those funds must be retained to act as a reserve fund to help in the general liquidity of the company. The third condition is that if the company were to go into liquidation the whole of the loan would be repayable. I do not know whether those honourable members who mentioned this aspect in this debate were aware that these conditions do apply, and, frankly, I have not checked to see whether these conditions also apply in the case of the Leeton  Co-operative  Cannery Ltd. Certainly the Riverland Cooperative has signed an agreement containing these conditions as they affect the situation in South Australia. 
The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  did say that he would be in favour of this Bill if it were aimed and geared to help the growers. In the case of Riverland Co-operative this Bill will certainly help the growers because firstly it is a co-operative, as is Jon Preserving Cooperative Ltd. I think that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  will deal with that company later on in this debate. Secondly the whole idea of the thinking of both the State Government and the Federal Government on this matter was to free funds from the business activity of these co-operatives so that they would not have to pay less for the raw material, the fruit produced by growers in those areas. By freeing them of their commitments I anticipate that larger amounts will be made available to the growers for that raw material as a result of action by this Government in association with the State Government. There is no question in my mind that this Bill is of very great signi ficance to the growers. I refute the suggestions to the opposite effect which I heard during this debate. I assume that the honourable member for Balaclava will therefore support the Bill as he made that a prerequisite to his opinion. 
I would like briefly to finalise my remarks. The Riverland Co-operative is situated in the town of Berri which is in my electorate. That town is the focal point of 3 other very important, up-to-date, modern, good looking and dynamic towns of the type that this country would like to see a lot more. It is my opinion that this sort of action by the Government is exactly the action that is necessary to look after provincial cities of this type. I for one welcome, without the reservations inherent in the amendment moved by the Opposition, the action taken by this Government to substantiate and to help the liquidity of all the shop owners, the centre store shop people in these areas, lt is of vital importance in this day and age, with the prolonged tentacles of centralisation around huge areas and huge capital cities, that towns of historic interest, towns such as that set up by people, like the Chaffey brothers, towns that are modern and which have up-to-date facilities, should receive some attention from the government of the day. It is for this reason that I particularly welcome this legislation. I congratulate the companies concerned which have supplied a tremendous array of statistical information to the Government and to people such as myself and no doubt the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in order to help us in our efforts on behalf of this industry. Personally I am proud of my involvement with this industry since the early days of 1968. It gives me pleasure, as I am sure it will give the people in my electorate, to see this Bill come to fruition. I support it with a great deal of gratitude and I inform the Opposition that I cannot support its amendment on this occasion. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Foster)  adjourned. 
It is with a very great element of delight- 1 will not say with an element of surprise - that 1 rise to support the motion. 1 support the Government very sincerely in its attitude to this problem of non-metropolitan unemployment and I. support the measures that the Government has taken to deal with the problem. I think it is probably true to say that we have grown unused to a rapid response to a quickly emerging situation by the huge monolithic, almost amorphous masses that modern day governments have become. It is to the credit of the Ministers and the Government that such rapid action has been taken in this field. The philosophy of the scheme has already been spelt out in a fine statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the Parliament. At the risk of being repetitious 1 wish to look briefly at the philosophy behind the scheme. It is true that its implication is a short term one. It aims to take immediate action to help correct a problem that is not part of the overall economy of the nation. It aims to fill a gap before such measures as rural reconstruction, rural retraining, marginal dairying measures and new wool policies emerge, and before any of these longer term and more fundamental schemes start to bite into the rural economy. So we are faced with a hiatus period in which problems exist in certain regional areas. The scheme attempts to deal with the newly emerging problem of those areas so defined. 
The Government aims to take specific action on a specific problem that applies intensely to specific areas of the economy. It will aid in relieving general hardship that has occurred in provincial centres and areas where the unemployment rate is very much higher than it is in metropolitan areas. Let me expand on that a little. It is apparent to all honourable members who have journeyed from main capital city areas to provincial centres such as Bendigo, Ballarat, Newcastle, Murray Bridge or Renmark, that the squeeze on the rural industries, which has come aboutlargely because the failure of prices for agricultural commodities to rise on overseas market has rubbed off on the home markets. It is not only those on rural blocks in these important provincial areas who are feeling the pinch. It is for this sortof reason that, to a degree - and to a degree only - the Government has decided to pour in funds at the rate of $2m a month to these areas. 
I think that the added importance of this scheme is that it is not only the farmers who are feeling the squeeze but it is also the main street traders - the butcher, the baker and the candlestick maker - and all those who arein business in these provincial centres. The scheme probably would not be a good one if it aimed to perpetuate jobs and employment in areas over and above the potential of those areas inthe years to come. But it is proper that this investment in the education and training of people, and the expertise of people there, should not be lost tothose areas. It is very important that, to a level, the facilities that are offered in those centres today should continue and increase so that. in time to come, when economic circumstances may well have changed; those areas of Australia with clean air, with beauty, with trees and with good facilities will have the capacity to attract people from some of the overcrowded cities with their smog problems and their diseconomies of scale. 
It is becoming more apparent now than ever, before that diseconomies of scale, such as 3-level highways running through Los Angeles, amount to the investment of an enormous sum per person. If we can provide facilities in regional areas and provincial cities it will be to the ultimate advantage of Australia. I am not saying that the Government should go overboard in promoting the use of taxpayers' funds in areas that arc not economic. What I am saying is that this is one of a series of schemes fitting into a pattern that will hold out some hope to these areas in the future and will provide more liquidity for their main street shops and their facilities than they otherwise would have. It is worthy of note that this scheme introduced by the Government - it is a completely new piece of thinking - is limited in time to 30th June 1973. It is important that the House take note of this fact. It is limited to that time because we are not going to see or feel much benefit from rural reconstruction, rural retraining, marginal dairying measures or new wool policies for some time. It is right that, during the hiatus, the Government should firstly recognise that the problem exists and, secondly, do something about it. 
Having discussed my idea of the practical philosophy behind the scheme let me now move on to the administration of it. Only yesterday the Federal Government completed itsdiscussions with the States on the administration of this scheme. I believe that certain facts are still undecided and need further clarification, but the Government has at this point of time tied in the major elements of this scheme with the States. Having nominally accepted the scheme the States now have to - in accordance with their function and their jurisdiction - draw up proper priorities for the use of the amount of taxpayers' funds provided for this purpose. Nobody would doubt that the States have more local expertise to decide whether work should be done on a major bridge at one provincial centre or on a toilet block somewhere else. That is not the sort of priority that we in this Parliament should decide.It is proper that the State governments should look at this and give advice. So the position is quite clearly that the Commonwealth has made available taxpayers' funds for this use, and now the States have to draw up proper priorities for the use of these funds. 
It is to be hoped that most of this capital amount will go to local government authorities for their use in certain areas. I think it is worth mentioning in passing that local government authorities have already had quite a slice of taxpayers' funds in the past from drought aid that has been made available I think the granting of funds for drought relief purposes in different States has been very valuable to the Government. First of all. the Government has learnt a lot of the pitfalls from the use of capital in this way. Secondly it has had a look to see what projects can be worth while and what are a waste of money when administered by local government authorities. I hope these lessons are learnt and I hope that perhaps some labour that is skilled rather than unskilled will be available to local government authorities now so that more worthwhile projects can be undertaken. 
There is, I gather, some area of disagreement in the thinking of the Parliament in general as regards the proportion of these funds that should be used for particular purposes. The Prime Minister in his statement mentioned the fact that- preferably no more than  25  per cent of these funds should be used for equipment and like purposes. This assistance is similar to the drought aid given in the past; it is meant for labour intensive projects. I would say in passing that 1 would have though there could well be a need for more than 25 per cent of the funds to be expended on equipment, depending on what projects are undertaken. There are only 2 ways in which funds in addition to 25 per cent of what is provided by the Commonwealth can be found for equipment. Either the States find them or there will be a request to this Government to provide added expenditure for that purpose. I see no problem involved in this. I note the fact that the maximum amount of elasticity has been left, according to the Prime Minister's statement, to. cope with just this sort of emergency. Although the sum of $2m a month has been mentioned in this statement, it will be adjustable from time to time according to the requirements of the situation. 
I have figures to hand which give the proportion of unemployed State by State in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. One quick look at these figures shows quite clearly that New South Wales, with nearly 9,000 unemployed in the metropolitan area, has a far greater number of unemployed. 11,700, in non-metropolitan areas. Different patterns emerge State by State. The situation in South Australia is at the opposite extreme from the figures I have quoted. In South Australia 72 per cent of unemployed are in the metropolitan area and 27 per cent are in the country, which is markedly different from the New South Wales position. I would just say in passing that I believe the Government must look carefully at the reasons for these figures. Not the least of the reasons for these figures is that three-quarters of the population of South Australia lives in Adelaide. In addition, a satellite city such as Elizabeth tends to distort the overall picture. I believe that a special allowance will be made for these circumstances. It certainly should be. In New South Wales, for instance, cities such as Newcastle and Wollongong, which are virtually the size of Adelaide, in terms of the definition in this statement would be provincial centres. I believe on the one hand that we must look at the statistics and their importance, but on the other hand 1 believe there must obviously be some re-patterning of the disbursement of this capital sum in order to achieve some fairness of distribution. 
May I. finish up my remarks by saying that I give very great credit to the Government for acting so promptly in a specific area of need where assistance is necessary. I cannot remember any other occasion on which such aid has been directed so unerringly to the area where it is necessary. I see this assistance as part of an overall pattern. Not only do I see this as part of the pattern of the economic circumstances of the country and the Government's attempts to control inflation but also I see this as part of the pattern of the resurrection and the promoting of a more healthy rural atmosphere in years to come. It is an integral short term important part of this programme. I congratulate the Government and support it heavily in its ideas behind this scheme. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether, while in Perth recently, he gained the impression that the Western Australian Government would continue to support independent schools by flat per capita payments, as did the previous Western Australian Government and as does the Commonwealth. Is this in contradistinction to die South Australian Government's policy and, I gather, the Whitlam policy of  a  means tested formula which provides less support for independent schools in that State than in any other State? 
I am pleased that the Opposition is evidently going to support this Bill. This will be a source of pleasure to many people on this side of the House even if it makes the debate a little less exciting. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924-1966 to clarify the general provisions that give the Australian Dairy Produce Board specific power to participate in commercial ventures as a means of expanding existing markets or securing new markets. The Board will also be enabled *o use funds in its account other than funds borrowed from the Reserve Bank, to acquire equity capital if need be. and indeed to make loans. 
The Bill also refers to the reconstitution of milk plants which the Australian Dairy Produce Board has established in many countries throughout Asia. These plants include the Thai Dairy Industry factory in Bangkok; Indomilk in Djakarta: Marikina in Manila; a milk factory established in Singapore which I gather has now been disposed of but to which we are still supplying raw materials; and Sokilait which is one of the more recent ones set up in Phnom Penh. Cambodia. 
The purpose of these factories and the philosophy behind the establishment of them I intend to refer to in a little while, but before I do that I would like to take up what was perhaps the most interesting part of the speech of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  when he tried to look into the future to see what it held for the dairying industry. 1 agree with the honourable member that the industry must be looked at in this sort of context. I think I would mirror the honourable member's remarks fairly accurately, but I am perhaps a little more optimistic. I say this although in the last week there has been an emerging problem of surpluses cropping up in European Economic Community areas. For instance, the latest figures I have, which 1 gather reached Australia only this week, show estimated surpluses in Germany this year of 39,000 tons of butter, in France of 124,000 tons and in Holland of 102,000 tons. These are facts that we must take note of and treat seriously. 
On consideration it seems fairly obvious that if in years to come Britain does become an integral part of the EEC, these countries plus other countries such as Denmark will take up the slack in the big import market of London. Logically they will take up this slack. These countries will supply that market and there will be barriers which will make it very difficult for other countries to take much part in the traditional market in London. But the other side of the argument is that markets such as Singapore and Kuala Lumpur, in which we have been competing with prices that we have got used to regarding as semi-dumping prices, would be deprived of that source of butter and other dairy lines. Therefore one would imagine that those markets would be more readily available to the closer supplies of New Zealand and Australia. 
I am optimistic. I think that this build up in butter stocks, which is estimated only, is quite logical if in future this problem of shortage of supply from the EEC countries to the United Kingdom is to be overcome. It is interesting to have a look at the price range on that market. The price has jumped, as we have seen in the last 12 months. It has gone from $378 a ton to $589 a ton. That is an enormous jump, a jump that is even more amazing when, as far as one can tell, the economists of the world were unable to prophesy that this would be so. As far as 1 can tell, almost every expert in the land was unable to show us that there was going to be this huge increase in demand for our products. I suppose we will continue to be amazed by our lack of knowledge of market trends from time to time. 
But this huge rise from $378 to $589 has brought difficulties in its wake, not the least of which is that the sales of butter in the United Kingdom today, as a direct result of these violent price fluctuations, have fallen by 25 per cent. On the one hand we have looked at the United Kingdom market as being the major market in the world for our butter exports, and on the other hand, owing to these fluctuations, we see a 25 per cent diminution in sales of butter on that market. The British have tended, through the normal mechanisms of competition, to buy an alternative at a cheaper price. It remains to be seen whether when prices drop, as inevitably they will, any of this 25 per cent, or how much of that 25 per cent, comes back into the consumer market for butter. 
The honourable member for Dawson also mentioned the trends in Australia. He mentioned, for instance, that in 3 years the consumption of butter per head in this country has gone from 25 lb to 20 lb. He mentioned the upward trend in cheese consumption and he said that consumption of powdered milk products was comparatively stable. 1 may have been doing something else but I did not hear him mention the fact that demand per head for liquid milk also is comparatively uniform. The trends represent growth and good prices in the industry, and one would anticipate that this will continue to be so. So we reach the stage where we study in depth, or try to, in this House, the efforts of the Australian Dairy Produce Board in the establishment of these reconstitution plants. Apparently the subsidiary of the Board in relation to their establishment is Asia Dairy Industries Co. of Hong Kong, and this virtually is the 'parent' of all these reprocessing and reconstituting plants. Their future depends largely on their importance to the industry, on how much raw material they demand as plants and the prices that can be gained for this Australian export of the raw material. 
I regret that I have not had a chance to show the honourable member for Dawson one or two tables that I had in mind to incorporate in the course of my speech. However I showed them to the Minister who was at the table and to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Perhaps the honourable member for Dawson would agree to my use of the charts I have received from the Australian Dairy Produce Board. He might be good enough to consult the honourable member for Riverina before I need to use them. The first one, which deals with quantities and prices, is really an effort to refute some of the rather damaging statements that have appeared in the agricultural Press in relation to these milk plants in recent weeks. For instance, the estimated 12 months requirement for skim milk of the TDI, which I mentioned a little while ago, is 8,000 tons at $368 a ton, giving a return to the industry of $2,944,000. The requirements of the various other factories are listed in this table. It shows an overall weighted average price of $362.26 a ton f.o.b. after deducting $8 per ton under the Australian Dairy Industry Council conditions. This gives some idea of the tremendous worth of the project to the Australian dairying industry. I seek leave of the House to have that table incorporated in Hansard. 
Before I commence the few words I have to say on this matter I would like to comment on the speech by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I am quite certain that he spoke with a great deal of sincerity in many of the comments he has made tonight 
I said tonight. Nobody would for one minute question the fact that there will be an attempt, as there have been attempts over the years, to make quite sure that this country has the best form of distribution of television programmes that it is possible to have. I think that probably the main difference between people on this side of the chamber and people on the opposite side is involved in what is considered a reasonable method of doing things. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports tonight has suggested that vast profits are being made, I imagine he means by some television hook-ups. I do not think that is in question. Undoubtedly in some instances this is so, but we on this side of the House, contrary to honourable members opposite, would prefer that a television station such as that on Channel 10 in South Australia, which has marginal operation and has had for some time, would remain operative. We do not think that there should be special conditions for one company and not for another. This thesis cropped up twice this week. We do not believe in discriminating. It has become increasingly obvious that the Labor Party would discriminate between companies in the same field, whether by tariff - a suggestion which occurred earlier this week - or by the method advocated tonight. 
One cannot go into the market place and say that one grocer should be taxed so much and another grocer should be taxed differently. In the opinion of the Australian people that is not on. If that is the sort of thing that the Labor Party is trying to propound tonight, it is not on again and it will not be on in the minds of the people of Australia who want to listen to more than one channel and, might I say, preferably more than just a government channel. They want options. This is really the salient point that has developed in this debate tonight. 1 do not think honourable members on this side would say that a successful company should be penalised. If it is success ful, so much the better. Presumably if it is successful it will have better quality of recording and production. It could be that some honourable members opposite would be shareholders in that sort of company. Let us face it. Whether the Opposition likes it or not Australia is developing that sort of company. We have heard a lot in the last week about Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The fact is that the shareholding list of that company- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I ask the honourable gentleman to return to the Bill. 
In case you think I am wavering from the subject,  Sir, I  point out that the list of shareholders in commercial broadcasting companies is very diverse indeed. At one stage I heard someone suggest that a company, whether BHP or a television company, should have roughly one-third wages bill, one-third profit and one-third overhead. That was said by Labor's spokesman on industrial matters. It is arrant nonsense. I can think of one company which has an annual wages bill in the region of $220m, on last year's figures, and a profit of about $60m. It is right out of balance. I regret to say,  Sir, that  those figures relate to BHP. I cite them only because there is undue suspicion in the minds of the Opposition as soon as someone is successful in the field of commerce. On this side of the House we believe that the nation can profit from successful people. We do not believe that our future is involved entirely with people who should not be successful. We believe that an impetus should be provided for people to get on in life, and I include small companies and television stations. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has tried to justify the Opposition's amendment seeking the formation of a committee of inquiry. That may not be a precise description, but I think it is roughly accurate. He has tried to justify it by saying that this is the House of the people whereas the Senate is not, but the Senate has got in first, and that if the Senate is mounting such a committee with reasonable terms of reference the Government should have waited and not produced this legislation now. I think that is a fair description of what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said. Some of this legislation should not wait until the 
Senate Committee's report comes down whether or not it comes from a House that is not the people's House. I will touch on this later on. 
I view one or two of the provisions of these 3 Bills as being of fairly great importance to the nation and I think that the Bills should be passed without regard to a Senate committee. I would take up the point of logic of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and say that if I believed, as he does, that the Senate is not the people's House, my attitude would be that the Senate is quite entitled to produce its own committee of inquiry to advise it. This seems to me to be horse sense. The Senate could well look after its own cart. Whether it be a matter of private politics or not, in this House we have to get action on matters we consider important. I will not touch on the very fine matters of fact that were dealt with by the PostmasterGeneral when talking about the Senate Committee, but because I think it is important I will touch on the problems and responsibilities of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
There is no doubt that the Board has the job of dealing with complicated and very far reaching matters and provisions to do with the Act that it supervises. It is very easy to overlook the complexity and sophistication of the matters with which it has to deal. It has to act within a framework laid down by the government of this country. It has extensive records of shareholdings, of loan interests and of directorships, and, as I understand its position, it constantly surveys the ownership and control of commercial broadcasting and television stations. This is its job, which extends far beyond the pure matter of ownership of broadcasting stations. The Board's record in this field of its endeavour is of very great consequence and importance to the nation in terms of the job it does under the legislation which set it up. In the Postmaster-General's second reading speech on the Bill to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942- 1971 he points out that there are 117 broadcasting and 48 television stations now established. It has become clear that the retention of a yearly renewal basis of licensing is becoming increasingly burdensome, as the Minister said, and that it is a matter of some concern to the Board. Integral in these Bills is the fact that we now look for a method similar to that adopted in the United States of America, where, I believe, the licensing authority can renew licences for a period of up to 3 years. Honourable members will realise that this is fairly close to the provisions of this Bill which sets a minimum period of 6 months and a maximum period of 3 years for the renewing of licences. I would remind the House that Canada extends the period to 5 years. 
Why has this been done? Not only has it been done to reduce the costs integral in the operation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board but also quite obviously - and the Opposition can poohpooh this if it wishes - to help reduce the costs incurred by the television stations. I thought the Opposition would say that it is to increase their profits but it did not; I am sorry that it did not. The fact is that it will increase profits. It has been amply demonstrated already that the Opposition is highly suspicious of anybody who is making a profit or who is efficient. The point is that if we can lower these everrising costs to organisations, whether they be television stations or manufacturing firms, no matter what they are, the community is surely better off because of it. The one thing that irritates me is the constant harping about the danger of someone making a profit. The whole viability of the community in recent days, so far as I am aware, has been the capacity of the people to do research, to invent new methods and to become efficient, and this is reflected in the benefits to the community. In this debate so far, and I hope I am not being unjust, Opposition speakers have not acknowledged this. 
I return once again because I think it is important to the problems facing the small broadcasting stations and those marginal television stations such as Channel 10 in some States which are not making a profit but which are providing a service to the community, which televise programmes with an Australian content on matters that some of us think are important and that some of us think are worth watching. I would like to move on in the brief time at my disposal to the matter of the Australian component. Section 114 of the Act provides, firstly, that the Australian stations shall employ, as far as possible, Australian workmen and Australian technicians. All of us will go along with this requirement. I am quite sure that the Opposition is just as keen as we are on this side of the House to make sure that this is so and continues to be so. But I hope that this provision never prohibits commerical television stations in this country from bringing out worthwhile people, whether they be in the field of television or radio or production generally. I hope that we never reach the stage where stations do not feel that they can import top talent where necessary. 
The second provision of section 114 of the Act deals with production and it attracts the same type of argument I have put forward in relation to Australian content. This second provision sets various standards which I will discuss in a minute. The third facet of section 114 affects the presentation of these programmes. Since 1960 increasing demands have been made on commercial television stations in regard to Australian content. Firstly, we looked at the Australian origin of programmes. Secondly, we looked at the Australian content of programmes shown within specified hours, particularly between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. The Australian Brodcasting Control Board, if I might hark back to the great job it does, has been responsible for the supervision of these factors. It was in November 1970, for instance, that the Government introduced new Australian content requirements. These provisions became effective from 20th September last year. If I may I shall deal with them only briefly as time is short. These new provisions seek to make life, shall we say, much harder for the commercial stations but more pleasant and acceptable and of a better quality for the viewers in Australia. Firstly, 50 per cent of the total programme time must be of Australian content. Secondly, 45 per cent of the televised time between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. must be of Australian content. Thirdly, 6 hours of first run indigenous drama must be televised between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. Fourthly, for 4 hours a month programmes must be provided for school age children. That is in complete distinction from preschool age children. 
If I were to criticise the programme, frankly I would criticise it in that last respect. It seems to me that as time goes by the outback children who are unable to attend school but who will be serviced by television stations at Alice Springs, Darwin, Port Augusta and other outlandish places - if I may use that phrase - will need much greater provision than the rather paltry 4 hours monthly which is required to be made available for educational purposes. I do not have the time at my disposal to develop tonight the philosophy of what should or should not be viewed or, indeed, what is or is not available. Perhaps I will have the opportunity to do so on another occasion. But in the meantime, I make the small point in passing that I think that this is something the Government should look at in view of the changing circumstances I have tried to describe which may affect the future of children in the outback areas away beyond the limits of the electorate of, for instance, Angas. I sum up by saying that as from June 1972 the total Australian content of programmes shown on television between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. will be increased, I gather, in all fields to at least 50 per cent. 
Members of the Opposition have described tonight - I think with some sincerity - what they wish, what they require and what they think should be the provisions that dictate the quality of the programmes that the nation will view in the years to come. I acknowledge their capacity and wish to do so. Perhaps they will acknowledge my sincerity in saying that I do believe, having had the opportunity to travel fairly extensively, that television in Australia is probably vastly better than it is in Thailand and India, although I do not really know whether I have seen it in those 2 countries. It is certainly vastly better than the programmes which are shown in the United States of America today, and in this respect I am serious. Furthermore, colour television in the United States of America has been in years gone by particularly putrid in my judgment. I trust that the wisdom of the Government in putting off the day of decision in term of colour television will be amply repaid by the rewards to the people of Australia of increased quality. The United Kingdom and the European colour television is infinitely better than any I have seen anywhere else in the world. I say in conclusion that this country has no reason to be ashamed of any facet of its television production. lt is a credit to the Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
ls the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the harvest for wine grapes is about to commence, without any assurance that accommodation can be found at wineries? Can the Minister offer any likelihood of change in the rate of excise to encourage some confidence into the industry? Does he agree that the Grant inquiry will presumably report too late to be significant in this year's harvest? 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development. Who is the constructing authority in relation to the Dartmouth Dam? When is construction due to be commenced? What is the assessed increased in cost since the present South Australian Government first turned down this scheme and reversed the decision of the Steele Hall Government? 
I support the Government's policy as expressed in the 2 Bills now before the House and I do not favour the amendment proposed by the Opposition. I will read it aloud because sometimes the House is apt to get away from the terms of the proposed amendment. The first part of the amendment, which concerns me particularly, states: 
That all words after That* be omitted with a view to inserting the following words In place thereof: 'the House, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools- 
I want to say right from the word go that I am against the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission for very many reasons. The first reason I put forward to the House is the problem of centralised control.  1  do not think it is in the best interests of education as such to have this device which purports to produce priorities of expenditure within the schooling systems in Australia, centralised in Canberra. I am personally entirely in favour of the Karmel Committee report produced for the South Australian Government, authorised by  Mrs Steele,  then Minister of Education in the Hall Government of South Australia. I do not say for one minute that I have read every word of the report or that I agree with every word of it, but I agree with the principles it contains, as I understand them, and  1  agree with the forward looking policy - one must be generous in some, ways - of the  2  State governments which have taken advantage of the long sighted views put forward by Professor Karmel in that report. 
I say that in contradistinction to the centralised view of an Australian Schools Commission. I think it would be a move in the wrong direction. For a start, the Karmel Committee report specifies that schools, including teacher training colleges, should be autonomous. If they are not so in South Australia today, they are well on the way to being so. In my view that is the direction in which authorities should be moving, not towards the old fashioned centralised authority in educational systems. 
 The honourable member for Bendigo has repeated himself  3  times. If he will bold his tongue I will be able to say that I am completely convinced that the procedure suggested in the amendment is exactly opposite to the correct way of looking at the future pattern in which education should proceed in this country. Let us have another look at the problems raised by the amendment moved by the Opposition. What I am about to say has been said before. The Opposition has been in complete disarray throughout this debate mainly because members of the Labor Party do not know what they think themselves on the subjejct of education.  Senator Murphy  takes the view that an Australian Schools Commission would be a means whereby all moneys for education would flow to the State sector. He takes the view that it would be a way of starving out of existence the private sector invest ment in education. He has openly stated that view and it is reported in Hansard of another place. 
Naturally the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that he could not agree with that view. He said: 'We must take a loftier view. We must make sure that there is equity between one section and another' - this in the year of an election. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has in some ways, I think, a more profound knowledge than the other  2  gentlemen. He has attempted to conform with the principles of the Karmel report. He said, from memory: 'No. We should have  24  different councils or commissions studying the proper priority of education in all States'. From my own point of view,  1  dismiss each of those opinions. The important thing that this Government has to do for education, and it will do it, is to continue to proceed along its present line, knowing that nearly one in four of Australian students at some time attends a private school. I am not debating at this point whether that is a good thing or a bad thing. I am saying that it happens, and anyone who ignores the enormous importance of the private sector investment in education in this country obviously does not know what is going on. 
Let us look, for instance, at the work carried out by the Department of Education and Science. Some time ago it produced this publication titled 'Education and the Gross National Product'. This pamphlet is now a little elderly and I hope it will be updated. It aims to bring a little realism to bear on the comments made in the report made by Professor Karmel many years before his last report, to which I have just referred. At that time he mentioned the amounts of money spent by a vast variety of countries as a percentage of their gross national product. Honourable members might well recall that Australia was fairly well down the ladder in terms of public sector expenditure on education. 
That was so for several reasons, the first of them being that we had a bigger private sector investment in education in this country than had any other country in the list compiled for comparison. The second reason was the age-old matter of the commodities and types of action that are included under the heading of educational expenditure. This excellent publication referred, for example, to the following items: School meals; free milk; health services; national cultural activities - in this country they are subject to another department; scientific research and development - again financed separately through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other such bodies; sport; leisure activities; civil education; youth activities; child welfare; public libraries: in-service industrial training; basic nursing training; armed Services colleges; rehabilitation and repatriation training; sponsored foreign students - for instance, the entire implications of the Colombo Plan - radio and television, and interest payments on loans used for school buildings. 
Not one item on that huge list is included under the heading of expenditure on education in this country, yet two, three and even four of them are included under the heading of education by some countries. That gives a totally unbalanced view in attempting to form comparisons. If that is not bad enough, let us turn to what could well be termed the climatic conditions that apply to a country. For example, in Europe in the realm of agriculture the cost of production in livestock husbandry is enormously increased because of the necessity to house stock over a longer period of the year. This does not happen in Australia, and consequently there is a cheaper cost of production. 
The same principle can be applied to education. In this country we do not need enormous heating complexes as are required in Europe. The same degree of structural strength may; not be necessary in school buildings. These items need to be considered when considering the educational performances of different countries. One other example from this pamphlet is a country quoted as spending 5.9 per cent of its national income on education. But in that country, which is a developing one, there is no free education. Children may be sent to school from the age of 6 if their parents can afford it and need stay only as long as the parents pay fees. Yet on the basis of a percentage comparison this country would be assumed to have an education system superior to Australia's. So clearly, unless one has details of the form of economy of a country, its level of development and its education system, comparison on this criterion can be virtually meaningless. What should this Parliament and its members be doing to try to improve education in this country? 
We need fewer wooden heads in the Parliament, but that is another matter. 
And that goes also for the second interjector. The first thing is to look at the expenditure which this country can afford on education. We then give it a priority and from time to time look critically at how this money is spent. Any person who has taken a careful look recently at the quality of education knows the portions of it for which expenditure is most rapidly rising. I will not weary honourable members by going over these now. This expenditure needs constant scrutiny to see whether we can get better performance. I am of the view that we should be looking at other matters. What do we want out of education? How much do we want to spend? How can the money best be used? Should Carrel-type teaching devices and methods take the place of current teaching methods? Should tape recorders, television and movie films be used more than they are in order to produce better performance from the use of the taxpayers' money? On the other hand, should reports such as the Karmel committee report be acted upon more promptly and, if they are not, should departments within the States which are responsible for the administration of education be run more as businesses without the undue loss that occurs from time to time? In other words, is a superannuated school teacher any better as head of the Department of Education than he is as a member of Parliament? 
I go a stage further and say that I believe it is probably unnecessary to use education as a political stick. I can think back to not long ago when a very well respected and highly reputable man in this Parliament died. He was  Senator Cohen.  I have heard in this House 2 people - one making his maiden speech - refer to the time when he was in South Australia helping at a political meeting. I spoke at that meeting and was assured that it was a non-political meeting. So I just toss that back perhaps to level up in some way with those on the other  side  of the House who had the insolence to tackle only one side of the education problem and to insist on ignoring the enormous investment by people from the private sec tor interested in education. Only last weekend 1 was telephoned by spokesmen for 3 bodies - I shall not mention names - representing 3 separate religions, who were horrified at many remarks made by members of the Opposition last week. One of the comments appears in the dissentient report of 2 members of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. I ask: What would one think if one was trying to run a poor little Lutheran school in the Barossa Valley and one read a remark like this? The report states: 
The provision of continuing religious indoctrination which is undoubtedly prized by Catholics and which is their main justification for the perpetuation of their separate school system. . . . 
Those remarks were made by 2 Senate colleagues of the honourable member for Bendigo in their dissentent report. 
If the honourable member for Kingston wants it to be made quite public in his electorate that he accuses certain churches of religious indoctrination under the guise of education, that is his business. I will help him if he wants to make that public. I will help the honourable member for Bendigo, too. I would like to know also where the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  stands in relation to this matter. I do not need to wonder where the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  stands. He is a protege of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and we all know his views. These members are accountable to the people in their own areas and some pf them, such as the honourable member for Bendigo, might well have made their viewpoints known to their electorates. I will lay my bottom dollar - I am not a gambling man and this is not the right place for it - that none of the other honourable members I have mentioned has made his position plain to his electorate. I will go a stage further and say that the State Government of South Australia through its needs commission is adopting on purpose a direct method of trying to downgrade the importance and standard of every little Lutheran school, every little Roman Catholic school and every little Methodist school in that State. 
The government schools in my State from the days of the Tom Playford Government have been considerably ahead of those in Victoria. We are proud of it and we do not play party politics with education. Several governments have been responsible for this situation. In relation to the private sector schools - this is  lue  only area where they are at fault - the situation is very different, as the honourable member knows. It is different because in South Australia the State Government under its needs formula is just not giving enough money and is using this formula as a device to hoodwink people and to downgrade the importance of those parochial schools, if that is the right expression. The Commonwealth donation to primary schools is $50 per capita, but in South Australia it is $10 per capita. It is $50 in New South Wales, $40 in Victoria, $45 in Queensland, $30 in Western Australia and $24 in Tasmania. The average in South Australia is $10. In the secondary schools the position is even worse. The State Government, working on a needs formula, has drawn 4 categories. Category A is meant to get the preponderance of aid made available but the aid which is given in South Australia to that sector of schooling is far less than it is in the 2 major States. That is the top category. Categories B and C are way behind and category D last year did not get a penny. 
If we are to look at rich schools, the honourable member should cast his eyes over the volume of information put in his office today and see how many schools are known to him in his State. I was astounded to find that in South Australia I knew perhaps only half a dozen schools out of the hundreds mentioned that are receiving benefits from this Government. They are receiving benefits of such consequence compared with the South Australian Government's donation that they are quite unequalled. I maintain that during this debate the Labor Party has been made to look quite foolish in the eyes of the public. People all over Australia today are ringing through to people like me in a way they have never done before because they have realised at long last that the proposal by the Labor Party for an education commission is designed only to hoodwink the left wing of the Labor Party and that the Labor Party will do nothing about it at all. Is this the influence which the unions exert on the Labor Party? As regards the Labor Party's proposition to determine the requirements of schools on the basis of need, this would prove parsimonious to the small schools operating in the State from which I come. I support the Government's Bill which makes available per capita grants in an increasing fashion, and I commend the Government for it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Prospect. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run 
OS a normal business undertaking and to what extent- its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. . 
Has the Treasurer seen a recent report of an economic research committee formed by the United Farmers and Graziers of South Australia Incorporated which has recommended the setting up of a Commonwealth rural bank to provide farmers with long term, low interest loans? What action is being taken by the Government in connection with this matter? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
The the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public arc made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
There is not a great deal on which the views of those honourable members who will be participating in this debate vary. Nevertheless, I think it is important for this matter to be reasonably well ventilated. To my knowledge the situation in the industry has not been altogether a happy one for some years. Basically the simple elements of the industry are the beekeepers, and the beekeeperpackers - as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has mentioned, some of the argument revolved around the definition of a beekeeper-packer - the voluntary groups, such as the Commercial Apiarists Association, which is of some concern to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the State associations, the federal body, which is the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations, and the Australian Honey Board itself. Those ingredients seem simple and workable because they are very similar to the ingredients of other bodies at which this Parliament looks from time to time. Probably the key to the whole question is the FCAAA. The Federal Council of the industry has broken down totally as an effective body. That has put strains on the relationship between the individual voluntary associations, such as the Commercial Apiarists Association from Clare, which has almost risen as a rump group to try to take the place of a body that - I say frankly, without being too definite - has become somewhat incompetent. 
The position has been reached where we must have a look at the FCAAA. The situation in the honey industry at present is rather similar to the situation in the citrus industry some years ago. Prior to the advent of Harry King as secretary and other people, some years ago the citrus industry was non-effective at a federal level. Today it is. It would be in the interests of the honey industry for the FCAAA to become so. I understand that it has got itself so tied in knots that it very rarely comes to any decision of relevance to the industry on matters of some importance. The FCAAA has a membership of 6. Its  chairman  is a State-elected person. The decisions of that body have, according to its rules and constitution, to be unanimous. I do not quite know how one can alter that situation. It may be that a unanimous decision could be taken to do away with the constitution that sets up the Federal Council. I do no: know how one would set about trying to alter and effect a change in that situation. 
The points which come to mind are: Few decisions of consequence are made by this body. The growers are dissatisfied. The State associations therefore tend to try to act as spokesmen for the industry, which they are frequently not competent to do because of their isolation or their own circumstances and the environment surrounding them. There is no federal voice that can talk to governments. If there is one voice in the industry today it is the voice of the Australian Honey Board. A lot of the feeling of dissatisfaction within the industry has come about because of a breakdown in the normal chain affiliation that one would find in most other industries. I believe that for the time being at any rate, unpopular though it might be, the Honey Board should be supported because it is comprised of a group of people who can get together and discuss matters with the government of the day, and surely that is an important ingredient of any industry that wishes to function effectively. 
The purpose of the Bill which, as a result of the Australian Agricultural Council meeting last month, seeks to effect changes in order to allow a poll to be taken to elect members to the Hooey Board, has been fairly well covered already. I do not intend to look very closely at that matter. I think the reason is obvious to all. In the past most producer nominees were selected by a State executive committee to be on the Honey Board as a producer representative, but in some States they were elected by the majority vote of the annual conference of the State association. As such they have been in the past elected sometimes by very few people indeed. I feel, rightly or wrongly, that some of those elected to the FCAAA and to the Honey Board are not necessarily the right people to give guidance in matters of commerce, marketing and merchandising to the industry. Until the industry itself can undo some of the tangle into which it has got itself in relation to its federal body - the. FCAAA- I cannot see that there is a great deal that governments or anybody else can do to help the industry. It may well be that in due course the apiarists of Australia will decide, as the honourable member for Wakefield said, to pressure the Board to allow a vote to be taken on the existence of that body. My own advice to the. industry, for what it is worth, would be not to do that until such time as it has patched up the defects in the Federal Council itself. 1 do not know whether there should be a Honey Board. Some years ago I remember opening the annual meeting of the South Australian Apiarists Association, and there was no question that of the people who were in that room at that time not 5 per cent of them would have had very much time for the Board. One ponders whether the proportion of apiarists who have not very much time for the Board today is any different from the number then or indeed whether the proportion is any different between one State and another. So I just return to the point that was made to me many years ago - possibly it is out of date today - that many producers of honey do not want the Board and they do not look kindly on the members of it. But I think they forget that probably part of the process is to strengthen the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations so that at least they have a federal body of authority that can talk for their industry if ever in the future they are to consider sacking the Honey Board. 
I also, as probably have other honourable members, have taken an interest in the matter that the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has just mentioned. I do not know whether it is possible for the content of "School Post' to be altered to fit in with the categorisation of the Postmaster-General. Personally speaking, to point out my interest in the matter, I would tell him that I also have asked for particulars from the Postmaster-General's Department in case there is an easy way of changing the content to fit in with the category to which the honourable member referred. 1 rise mainly because I am quite convinced that earlier tonight the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  said in this place that over the news tonight he had heard that the Fairfax Press was taking out a writ for damages, or whatever the phrase may be, against the Australian Broadcasting Commission and quoted the sum involved. You were not in the Chair at the time,  Mr Speaker,  and when points of order were naturally raised as to whether this matter was sub judice, you were in no position to make a judgment, as you rightly stated. However, there are those of us in the House tonight who are quite sure that that is what the honourable member said. If by any chance my memory or hearing is inaccurate I will be in the position of having to apologise but I feel quite sure my memory is not inaccurate and my hearing not deficient. In any case, Hansard will supply the answer after we have left to go on this Easter vacation. If what I am saying is true, the honourable member for Sturt has a lot to answer for in purposely misleading this House by changing his tune and saying he was not sure whether the writ had been issued. As I remember it, on his own evidence he is guilty. Time will prove whether. I am right or wrong. I am quite prepared to apologise if I am wrong. 1 would like to continue where the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  left off. In effect what he said was that if the honourable member for Sturt is to accuse people in this place of not standing for freedom of speech or of exercising coercion he should look at his own house first. I would like to pick up this point by referring to a completely true statement made by an acquaintance of mine who has had a lifetime experience with the Merchant Navy. Of course, he was very closely allied to a union that might be said to be  a  next door neighbour of the union represented by the honourable member for Sturt as a shop steward. In this case a letter was written to the local newspaper setting out  a  series of contentions by a member of this union. My acquaintance who had spent  a  lifetime in the Merchant Navy replied to this letter and stated, factually as far as I understand it, that some points raised in the letter were incorrect. To this day that man is still receiving phone calls at 3 o'clock in the morning. To this day he still receives knocks on his door by people who then scuttle away. To this day he still gets stones thrown on his roof. But do we hear objections to this activity raised in this House? Does the honourable member for Sturt object to this conduct? Yet he stands in this House and dares to talk about the rights of people to express a view. 
I can only comment that 1 could not agree more with the Minister for Social Services when he suggests that fair is fair in relation to these matters and if one is to take a stand on the rights of people to express an opinion in this or any other community one should be consistent and say that coercion and threats should not be allowed to stop people speaking. If one's own house is not in order one should not take the stand adopted by the honourable member. I would like to deal with the topic that made me write my name on your list earlier,  Mr Speaker  - the wine industry. We are about to adjourn for Easter and by the time this House resumes - 
I will show you what I will dare in one minute. By the time the House resumes the Grant committee will have completed its inquiries and I expect that it will have reported to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I imagine that it will be a factual report and not one that aims to make suggestions, and that it will be considered by the Minister and perhaps by his Department. I imagine that from that source will come suggestions. I imagine that within a week or two Cabinet will be in a position to come to some objective judgment based on statistical facts and findings which have not been available to the Government, I gather, to the degree that this report will make them available. I say immediately that the move of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  the other day to suspend Standing Orders was, of course, yet another move to make life more difficult for those of us who are genuinely seeking to effect some change in the excise on wine. 
Forgive me,  Mr Speaker,  if I suggest that at this time 1 must wilh the greatest regret dissociate  myself  from the honourable member for Riverina because every time the Opposition has said anything about this it has been a damned sight more difficult for me to effect change. I think people are starting to realise that this is so. There are people such as myself and  Senator Laucke  who, I am confident, will be able to take some of the credit when change is made. The attempts by the Opposition to cash in on the fact that this is becoming more and more genuinely accepted as being so was evidenced by the Opposition's motion last week to suspend Standing Orders. That, of course, was a mere subterfuge and an effort to try to get on side with something that is more or less solved. I will be very disappointed if it is not solved. 
In the time remaining to me in this debate may I again taunt the Australian Labor Party on this matter. I have in my hand a copy of a Press report dated 15th April 1971. It reads: 
Adelaide, Wednesday - The Labor Party Federal Executive today strongly criticised heavy taxation on Australian wine. 
The Executive passed a resolution supporting repeal of the present excise without committing any future Labor Government to removal of taxation on locally produced wine. 
That is Labor's stand at present. If 1 were to move a motion, naturally honourable members opposite would embarrass me if they could. Labor promised to move a motion in the Senate. But has one ever been moved in the Senate? No. I have a copy of the Adelaide 'Advertiser' which reports that the Labor Party intends to move my motion in the Senate. Has that ever transpired? It has not. Throughout this entire matter of wine excise Labor has had no policy whatsoever on the subject; it has refused to declare itself in any way, and it is determined to try to embarrass those who are trying to effect changes. I do not know whether I would be any different if I were in opposition. T grant that to honourable members opposite. I am on my feet tonight to make a last point because for all I know a decision might be made by the time the sittings are resumed. I am certain that those of us who have spent their time doing more or less nothing else in the last 3 or 4 months than trying to effect a change in regard to a tax that we reckon is wrong, have not been helped by the Opposition cluttering up the issue with a lot of extraneous facts. 
The point at which the Government and myself part in regard to this matter is whether the excise on wine has caused any significant change in the trend in wine sales. I say there has been a significant change. The Government says there has not. It will be interesting to see what the Grant Commission has to say in its report on this matter. I am confident that the swing of proper expert opinion is in my direction at this time. I hope that by the time the sitting is resumed there will be some happy news for my electorate in relation to this matter. 
I do not think anyone in this House would mind quite so much hearing this plea for truth if it did not come from the lips of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  We do not have to look very far to see the reason for that. Tonight he has stated in this chamber that he is not satisfied with an explanation made in this chamber. I would ask him who in this House is satisfied with his explanation. The last time he spoke in the adjournment debate I was in the position of following after him and saying that if I were wrong I would stand corrected and apologise to the House for the contentions I made following the speech of the honourable member for Sturt. During that speech he quite clearly made a statement which I will quote from Hansard so that there cannot be any error about it at all. Early in his speech, before you were in the Chair,  Mr Speaker,  he said: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has had a writ for $400,000 issued against it as a result of the "This Day Tonight' programme last night. 
That is an accuate description of what the honourable member for Sturt said. 
I hope that is not a. sign of the times. That is what the honourable member for Sturt said before you, '  Mr Speaker,  moved into your chair on that night. When you were finally in the position of chairing this honourable chamber, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  interrupted and said that the matter was subjudice, and logically it was very difficult for you to come to a decision on the matter as you had not. heard the original statement by the honourable member for Sturt which I have now read to the House. So, on that occasion, you said to the honourable member for Sturt: 
Order! Let me say this: If a writ has been issued the honourable member for Sturt will be out of order in mentioning this matter. I ask the honourable member for Sturt whether he is aware that a writ has been issued. 
The honourable member for Sturt then proceeded, I might suggest, to prevaricate and say that he was not aware that a writ had been issued. If he was not aware that a writ had been issued, why did he say: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has had a writ for $400,000 issued against it as a result of the "This Day Tonight' programme last night. 
The point at issue on this matter was that having read Hansard' and having checked my memory in relation to it, I did not see fit to apologise to the House for any inaccurancy on my part. 
Let us get back to the point of the honourable member's speech tonight. Of all the people in this House, the last one this House can afford to take note of is one who tries to delude the House on purpose in his statements, based not on any hearsay but on the evidence of the Hansard report and after having been properly warned that I would check this matter at the first opportunity. I think the House should lake into account that there are some people to whom one can listen and place a great deal of reliance on their accuracy, and there may be others to whom this does- not apply. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
He had a bob each way, as usual. 
I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  relating again to unemployment benefits. I would say in passing that there is a principle involved in these matters. I noticed the Opposition's attempt today to get out from under the principle by trying to refer to the attitudes of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  as being so many years old. I do not think it matters how old a principle is. It is either a principle or it is not a principle. Members of the Opposition should really take this fact into account. I think that the Minister for Social Services, looking at the portfolio generally, brings tremendous energy and initiative to bear on the problems involving his portfolio. I do not think that Opposition attacks of this nature will damage the reputation of this Minister who has in mind the needs of the people of Australia generally. 
In the few minutes left during this debate airing of grievances I wish to refer to another matter relating to redundancy which occurs in my electorate in the Nairne pyrites field in South Australia. Honourable members might bear in mind that last November we had a debate which centred on the bounty affecting the production of sulphuric acid on the one hand and pyrites on the other. I remind the House brieflly what happened. With the fall in the price of imported brimstone, which is used in the production of sulphuric acid, the price of the locally produced product became many times dearer than the imported product. Local production fell and the Government withdrew its bounties on sulphuric acid and pyrites. When this matter was debated in the House I referred to several matters, including the redundancy of labour that could occur when local production ceased. 
I pointed out to the House that nearly onethird of the people in the township of Brukunga, where pyrites is produced, had found work at the nearby new Kanmantoo copper mine. I pointed out that nearly onethird were working on a pipeline running from Murray Bridge to Adelaide and that more than one-third were still working at Nairne Pyrites. 
This company will cease its activities in May of this year. I have been able to ascertain that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the managing agent and co-owner of Nairne Pyrites in association with Adelaide Wallaroo Fertilisters Pty Ltd and Cresco Fertilisers Ltd, is sending this week from Whyalla employment officials and experts to see what jobs can be found at the BHP works at Whyalla for those in Brukunga who are presently redundant. It is to be hoped that those who wish to move to a new locality will be able to find worthwhile jobs according to their capacities in the new area. Furthermore, I gather that when the BHP official has finished his work the Commonwealth Employment Service will send to Brukunga other experts to help those who perhaps do not want to move to Whyalla. 
The real reason I am on my feet today is to mention quickly the problems of compensation that should be paid to the companies concerned as a result of the negation of a contract to keep producing into the 1980s. An offer of compensation has been made based on the depreciated value of the plant minus realised price. That is all right. I think people realise that the realistic value of the plant has been affected. But this form of compensation does not take into account problems of redundancy that might be costly to the company to try to overcome.  Lt  does not take into account severance pay that the company obviously intends to pay to a wide section of the people it currently employs. It does not take into account legal costs or the grazing rights of one farmer next door. It does not take into account the replenishment of the ground so that it is left in a fit state. The company has had to face all these things and has more work to do. The worst feature is that this compensation does not take into account that there is a contract between the company and the Housing Trust of South Australia which does not expire until 1983. Once the houses built in Brukunga by the Housing Trust become vacant the onus falls on the company to pay substitution rent to the Trust. If these houses had been built by the company and not by the Trust they would have been written off in depreciation by now and the company would have no onus topay the rent on them. 
I sound a very minor note of warning that if this matter of compensation is not satisfactorily resolved I intend to pursue this topic in time to come, because although officers of the Department of Trade and Industry have been sent to negotiate with the companies there has not been an acceptance at this stage of what I regard as the Commonwealth Government's proper responsibilities in fields of compensation other than that relating directly to the depreciated value of the plant itself. Finding employment for those who are redundant is another matter I intend to keep a careful watch on. I think very seriously that the Government, having promoted the use of pyrites in the late1950's. has a responsibility. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I think that the House should come back to the realisation that we are debating 2 Bills introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)1  - the States Grants Bill 1972 and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1972. Both Bills concern the States in their financial relationships with the Commonwealth. These 2 Bills were introduced as a result of the last Premiers Conference and the meeting of the Australian Loan Council which were conducted so successfully a short time ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer. Even the 2 State Premiers who one might suppose might not be in total agreement with the other Premiers went away from Canberra completely satisfied with the deal they had got and, judging by the noise they made, completely encouraged in this rather difficult field of State-Federal financial relationships. 
To put it briefly, the 2 conferences to which I have referred resulted in additional funds being granted to the States amounting to $85.8m for the year 1971- 72. I think it is difficult to devise alterna tive means of overcoming the present rather rough-edged method of establishing a principle to distribute funds from a Commonwealth collecting  source  on the one hand to the States as an expenditure authority on the other hand. I believe that there will always be differences. I believe that at times of stress there will always be acrimony. I do not believe that, as one hears so frequently in this House, by a sweep of the hand one can easily overcome the contest, the spirit of playing politics, the necessary coercion or the almost implied political blackmail on some occasions by the leader of one community or of one State who tries to increase his own proportion of the funds available from the Federal authority. I do not believe that it is easy to overcome this difficulty that occurs from time to time, but I say that in relation to the fact that the last Premiers Conference must rank as one of the best conducted, most efficient and most acceptable to all parties, at any rate in my memory of the holding of these talks on financial arrangements. 
The increased grants were in the field of State works and housing programmes. Increases occurred in semi-governmental borrowing programmes - those of the electricity trusts and semi-governmental instrumentalities of that nature. Increases were made in grants for unemployment relief in non-metropolitan areas. This is a matter of very great significance to many of the larger provincial areas in Australia where in some cases the rate of unemployment was running up to 6 and 7 per cent as against the metropolitan rate of unemployment applicable at the times when these grants were first introduced and when the increased amounts of capital were passed on to the States. Increases were also made in general revenue grants to help State governments. An increase of $15m - which is the subject of one of the 2 Bills we are considering this afternoon - has allowed for greater State government works programmes from revenue. The increases have allowed for works programmes to be hastened. In some cases the increases have meant that works programmes will be able to continue at the planned level and not fall behind due to escalating wage levels and their effects on State budgetary conditions. 
A special loan was granted to the State of New South Wales to assist in its budgetary difficulties. I think it has been well acknowledged in this House and elsewhere that the loan programme has not in recent times been as beneficial to the State of New South Wales as it has been to other States. I clearly remember that some years ago when  Mr Steele  Hall was the Premier in South Australia he asked me, if I had any influence at all, to quietly prevail on the Federal Government to give a better loan deal to the State of New South Wales. The situation of New South Wales not having a better programme was the fault of the previous government in that State, because it did not believe in borrowing loan money to the limit, as did the other States. So New South Wales became a victim of the application of the formula as it applied to its own requirements at that point of time. On the one hand there is probably a reason for this, but on the other hand it is a fact that New South Wales has not had the best proportion of loan funds in recent times. 
There is one thing which I cannot quite follow in this debate. It does not seem that these 2 Bills deal with special purpose grants. I may be wrong, in which case I say so with respect and no doubt the  speaker  who follows me in this debate will try to persuade me that I am wrong. But I do not believe that these 2 Bills touch on special purpose grants at all. For that reason I was rather surprised that the Chair was so lenient with the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who spoke in terms of school science laboratories, school libraries, I think, and meeting requirements from special purpose grants. Admittedly, there is an implication in this legislation relating to overall reimbursements in their application to the state school systems, and no doubt this is the point on which the honourable member would stake the claim that his form of logic in touching on education this afternoon is sustained. I also, in passing, and perhaps stirred by the honourable member for Bendigo, will touch on some of the implications for education in these Bills. I presume that, even though I have criticised the logic of the honourable member for Bendigo and his inability to relate his remarks to these Bills, a small amount of the same leniency will also be applied to me by the Chair, but of course I would obey the ruling of the Chair no matter what way the occupant of the chair felt he had to rule in relation to this matter. 
What I wish to touch on is a matter that came out of the great education. debate which was held recently and which, as honourable members will remember, went on for 3 hours and was viewed by a large cross-section of the Australian community. I think the thing that probably impressed itself most on most honourable members and on most members of the Australian community was the statement made on more than one occasion that, although it was apparent that more and more capital funds would be required for education in this country, there was a limit on the amount of money which the taxpayers of this country could find to put into the confined and specialised area of education. Arising from the statements in the great debate on education was the worry in the minds of education experts as to whether we were getting proper results for the huge amounts of money that this Government finds annually from various forms of taxation imposed on the community for education. 
I pondered, as I listened to the honourable member for Bendigo, whether in respect of such things as libraries we are doing a proper job as a Government in duplicating facilities left, right and centre. T would not go so far as seriously to propound to this House measures which I have seen adopted in Malaysia and elsewhere, where frequently education at schools is divided into 3 shifts. There is one shift in the morning, another in the afternoon and usually another one in the evening for adults. Such a system would bring about total involvement in the educational structure in isolated schools and schools in small country towns. I am not going so far as to suggest that, notwithstanding how desirable this is, we should look at that one topic of community involvement only. I am not going so far as to say how important community involvement is as a focal point in small country schools. But I am pondering the situation that exists in towns of 2.000, 3,000 or 4,000 people which frequently do not have a state run library but sometimes have a school library. One high school in my electorate which, I think, was occupied last week has a library worth $170,000. I ponder whether this sort of facility should be maintained purely for those who are being educated at that school. 
Might I explain my thinking on this. The library at this high school was built for the purpose of being used by the students. I accept that. But are those students, on leaving the school, to be deprived of library facilities if the town in which the school exists does not have a public library? Carrying this logic a stage further, I ask: Are people who live in an isolated area to be deprived of better learning facilities because they cannot use the local school library? I do not pose as a great expert in the detail of education, but I guess that the use to which a library can be put probably depends on whether it is a closed library - in other words, a library built within the structure of the school itself - or whether it is an open library as are the new libraries which are built under the Commonwealth special grant for libraries. In other words, the distinction depends on whether or not the libraries are housed in a separate building, as I think they have to be under the Commonwealth scheme. If this is so, and where this is so, I ponder whether we should, in our attempts to get better performance per input, spread the availability of things like school libraries instead of leaving them as a sort of holy cow that only one small section of the community is game to approach, and then with great care in case it is booted. 
In the time available to me I would like to pick up from where I had left off in several budgetary debates in the past. I would like to say something about the proper economic approach to decentralisation. I suppose it is true to say that as a race politicians probably talk more nonsense to the square inch about decentralisation than most other sections of the community, and that is saying plenty because they talk tons of nonsense also. Nevertheless, there are proper economic lines and principles to which I have referred on more than one occasion in this place. I think, speaking from memory, that the first time I spoke on this matter was during the Budget debate in 1967. I devoted the entire half hour that we were allowed in those days to a dissertation, having had the opportunity of attending university and studying this sort of exercise, on the proper economic principles that can work to the community's benefit in relation to decentralisation. 
I tie this in, if I may, to the sort of grants that appear before this Parliament today. Also, I relate my remarks to the announcement by the South Australian Government - and might I add that this was a very proper announcement - that it intended to set up a provincial city or centre next to the town of Murray Bridge in my electorate which would eventually have a population of 200,000 people far exceeding that well known - and favourably known - satellite city of Elizabeth, near Adelaide. This announcement obviously has implications for this Parliament. But I do not believe that it has very many implications for this Government. I say this for the reason that no-one yet knows quite where this city will be sited. Geographical and geophysical surveys have been made to look at soil types and important environmental factors, but no-one as yet has acquired the land. Of course, a project of this type will take time to get underway. 
It is for this reason that I would like to look into the future and say how important I think it is for the governments of this nature - I am being consistent in what I have said in this House two or three times previously - to be involved with the important facets of our community existence such as the formation of this provincial centre. Let us have a look- 
For heavens sake, the honourable member for Sturt has only just walked into the chamber. He would not know. He is getting that empty resonant head going again. I thought that the honourable member for Chifley was listening to me but evidently I am wrong. I do not have much time to deal with the principles involved. I have just put my proposition to the House so I suggest that the honourable members who are interjecting keep quiet. 
The important principles involved - and I think that all economists would support them - are these: Instead of mucking around - if I might use that phrase - setting up killing works in Victoria which go bankrupt pretty promptly as a rule particularly if they have been State sponsored, we have an alternative. We would get hold of a city or community preferably of 30,000 people or 15,000 if we stretched it. We would then pour capital quickly into this community which would be founded on some raw material. Examples of such a city are Shepparton which was founded on fruit, Geelong which has shipping and harbour facilities and Whyalla which was founded on manufacturing and mining. There must be a base. Having got that base, if we took hold of the community and injected capital into it rapidly enough we would soon build the population to 70,000 or 90,000. It is an economic fact that at that stage light industries would appear and the process of development would become self-generating. 
This is not the first time I have said this in the House. It must be the fourth or fifth occasion on which I have done so. If this sort of operation is properly carried out, development away from the cities unquestionably can occur. One can spot such development over and over again in other parts of the world. Development of this kind resulted by accident in places such as Shepparton, Bendigo, Geelong and Whyalla. What I am saying is that I believe that this Government and this Parliament must come to terms with the States on these sorts of projects. We are discussing today financial arrangements between the States and the Federal Government. I have said already that I do not believe, frankly, that this Government can be expected in the next 6 months to be involved in the proposed provincial city in South Australia because no-one yet knows where the ground will be on which it is to be constructed. But the time will come when this is known. The time will come when the speed of development towards this self-generating stage will depend on the amount of capital that can be put into such a project. If I may become parochial, which I do not think I have been up till now, let me say that in South Australia, where so much of the population is centred around the capital city and so little elsewhere, the urgency for this sort of project is of far greater magnitude than it could possibly be in other areas of Australia, except perhaps the north-west coast of Western Australia in that area's relation to Perth, and that would have other implications and other factors which would affect the thinking behind it. 
I finalise my remarks by saying in the most constructive terms I can muster that I think the time must come when this Parliament will spend a lot of time looking at proper economic principles and developing a correlation with the States to take some of the pressure off cities and to take some of the higher costs, as cities grow bigger, away from State government instrumentalities which are trying to provide goods and services to those communities. Instead of the present diseconomy of scale, we should be endeavouring to achieve economies of scale by the proper channelling of resources into housing and better living conditions rather than adding to the problems of the huge monolithic growth of capital cities in this nation today. 
The recommendation we are considering is an extraordinarily serious one, as are all recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee which relate to the functioning of this House. I do not know any more than other honourable members who have spoken about the huge increase in the load on Ministers and Cabinet Ministers in particular. But I think that anyone with half an eye open knows very well that the load must have doubled over the last 10 years. I think it is obvious that some changes must occur to spread this load more evenly. To my mind the principal job of Cabinet Ministers is to spend most of their time looking at policy and making policy decisions. Obviously, I have never been in the position of a Cabinet Minister, but I will bet anything you like that the majority of their time today is not spent in the important field of policy making. It is for this reason that I hope this House will treat seriously any intelligent move to try to lighten the load on Cabinet Ministers, who should be concentrating on policy. 
I do not know whether Assistant Ministers function effectively in every way in which perhaps the Executive thought they should function. But I think it is quite clear that Assistant Ministers must help lighten the ordinary day to day load on Ministers. Surely this was the reason why the idea was foisted on the Parliament in the first place. I agree with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in that I do not see that there is any reason at all why Assistant Ministers should not be in charge of Bills at the second reading or Committee stages. However, while we are about it, let us just take on board the fact that there is the exemption that members have the opportunity to bring the responsible Minister back into the chamber on the third reading of a Bill. This seems to be an intelligent safety valve, if it is looked at in that way. I am not at all sure that the most serious disadvantage in some ways is not the one mentioned by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  a while ago; that is that if people write to a Prime Minister, Treasurer or some other important Minister and their request is denied, at the bottom of the letter setting out the reasons for the denial those people would expect to see the signature of the Minister who is in charge of the relevant policy. 
1 am not arguing about that. 1 point that out in passing. Although I may sound as though 1 am arguing against myself there is a situation in which such letters should be signed by the Minister rather than the Assistant Minister. I do not think I can agree for one minute with the honourable member for Wills in his reference to Parliament as the Executive of the nation. This would never do. What an awful confused mess the running of the nation would be if the executive job was carried out by Parliament rather than by the Executive. Frankly, I do not believe that that is practicable. Possibly the honourable member for Wills meant that Parliament itself should have the final decision in relation to policy put forward by the Executive. 
I wish to make one last plea and I hope I do not sound as though I am preaching. I hope that this House treats the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee with great consideration. This surely is a time for Parliament to use its own responsibility and initiative in deciding the way in which it should act in future. I believe that this Parliament is unique because of the numbers of times that it has been master of its own business. Frequently it has abandoned pre-conceived ideas and altered standards set by May or the House of Commons to cope with individual circumstances that affect this House and this nation. 
Can the Minister for National Development inform me of the action the Federal Government is taking with or without consultation with the States to tackle the future problem of salinity and other pollution in the lower reaches of the River Murray? Does the Government agree with the recommendations in the recent consultants' report which dealt with action that should be taken to retain future quality in times of low rainfall in the catchment area? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry noticed the Press suggesting that the South Australian Premier finds it strange that the Minister for Primary Industry is not sure whether he will release the report of Professor Grant on his inquiry into the wine industry? Can the Minister tell the House whether these Press reports are correct and, further, whether any decision has yet been reached on representations from the industry and, if I might say so, myself for the removal of the 50c per gallon wine excise? 
Will the Minister for Education and Science make plain why the Government's decision of last week to bring in new financial assistance arrangements affecting all schools is effective from next year? Has the Minister noticed any reaction to this point from South Australia? If so, can he see merit in any of these comments? 
Briefly I should like to try to bring the debate back to the amendment we are considering. This is not really the time for a second reading speech, of which we have had a reasonable number already. Let us look at what has happened up to this point. A little while ago we moved and passed an amendment, moved by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  That amendment, as the Committee knows now, substitutes for an amendment that was to be moved for a statement that medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard. That has been accepted. What we are now debating is not the merit of smoking cigarettes, as one or two members of this Committee seem to think, but rather whether clause 3 should be amended to insert the word three' in place of the word 'five'. What this clause says is that a statement shall be spoken and the time occupied by its transmission shall not be for less than 5 seconds. The amendment suggests that 3 seconds should be substituted for 5 seconds. 
That is so. I wish to point out to the Committee 2 things. The first is that all honourable members seem to ignore the fact that the provision is 'not less than 5 or it may well be 'not less than 3' in a few minutes time. It does not mean that the warning has to be got over in 3 seconds. More than one speaker tonight has suggested very firmly that this is so. It is a signal and the whole of this clause is designed to ensure that the clarity of the signal is the object of the exercise and that the signal, whether it be on radio or television, should be for not less than 3 seconds. 
If one wants to argue to a ridiculous extent one could say 'not less than 30 seconds', but when the Committee considers that the phrase we have just used should now be used in sound in those 2 mediums I do not think that any reasonable signal on television or radio would want to run for much more than 4 seconds. That is precisely what this clause aims to achieve. It seeks to ensure that nobody makes such an ass of the signal that it becomes less than 3 seconds and that is why I got to my feet tonight I think this point has been overlooked by the Committee. I do not mind people having views one way or the other but 1 think it is fair to make this point. 
The only other thing 1 want to say is not directly related to this clause although one could connect it Briefly I want to take up the interjection made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  earlier in this debate and the reply to an interjection by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I ask honourable members to take some cognisance of what was said for in both cases it was firmly implied that the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the mass media is that the Australian Labor Party would nationalise all television stations. 
It may well be untrue; I do not know. All I am doing is standing in my place and telling the truth. Two honourable members opposite tonight have said very firmly that the aim of the Labor Party is to nationalise all television stations. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member for Angas is getting away from the amendment before the Committee. 
1 do not know whether this is ALP policy or not but if it is not those honourable members should take note of the policy. However, my reason for rising was to point out the necessity for the Committee to consider the phrase 'not less than 3 seconds' in relation to this clause. 
The cognate Bills we are discussing tonight are the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2), the Income Tax Assessment Bill and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill. The one I personally wish to refer to tonight is the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2), which, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, deals with a question which in my state of South Australia at any rate became a very vexed one some time ago, the question of section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. At the risk of wearying the House or perhaps even boring the House, I shall quote some words I put together on 16th September last year and again on 7th October last year. In passing raigh t I say that these speeches by no means have been the only approach I have made to solving the problem of section 26 (a). On the first of those dates I said in this place: 
I suggest that section 26(a) of our current income tax legislation is not, as presently worded, capable of giving the type of interpretation which today's needs dictate. It is a restrictive section which breeds doubt in the minds of investors and conveys a state of affairs that bears no relationship to the requirement of  a  modern dynamic society. I beseech the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in particular to have a look et the vast potential that exists in the ordinary Australian's pocket today, which could be used to help that Australian to become a partner in Australian enterprises. 
I went on to mention the types of ventures that are referred to as risky or speculative or what other term the honourable member for Melbourne Ports sees fit to use to describe them. I was a little disappointed with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports because he dealt unduly tonight with equity as he saw it. He said that stockbrokers lived better than their clients, a statement with which I cannot argue at this moment. I would be inclined to think that that suggestion is not only logical but possibly correct. They would have far greater expertise than would their average clients. But I hoped that the honourable member would also see the other side of the argument. I think I have put the other side of the argument quite fairly by quoting the words I spoke back in September of last year. 
It is surely a matter of whether we intend to use the resources of our people in Australian enterprises. Members of the Opposition may think I am biased, that I am incorrect or that I am not thinking on sound economic lines. That is their right but I believe it ls very important for the government of a nation such as Australia, which is still m so many ways a developing country, to try to use the resources of its people to build up an equity. I am sure that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  - I have heard him talk in this vein before - will go along with that idea. I hope that is not damning him with faint praise. But it seems so terribly important to me that the Government should take that action; and, of course, it has. 
The first indication we had of that was the ministerial statement of 11th April of this year by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in which, as the House will remember, he spoke of a reduction from 5 per cent to 2 per cent in the levy on personal income tax. The House will also remember that the standard rate age, invalid, widow and Service pensions were increased by $1 a week. At that time there was also the announcement of an inquiry into taxation. Let us face it; the sort of argument that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has put forward tonight is very germane in many ways to the sort of inquiry that obviously will develop. Later in my speech I may return to the matter of equity and the matter of a capital gains tax. But I wish to point out now that the time to which I have referred, that is, 11th April, the Treasurer foreshadowed the Government's intention to legislate to vary the operation of section 26a of the Income Tax Assessment Act. He said at that time that the assessable income of a taxpayer should include profits arising from the sale of any property acquired by him for the purpose of profit making by sale. The Treasurer said that much had been said about the operation of this section recently, which was certainly true at that time. He went on to say: 
The Government has decided that the basic principle of section 26(a) is proper and that it should be maintained. However, in order to provide greater certainty on the part of people having stock exchange transactions in shares it is proposed to amend the law so that profits or losses arising from the sale of shares which have been held for 18 months or more will not be taken into account for taxation purposes. 
There are, of course, exclusions from that provision, some of which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has mentioned. For instance, persons who are declared to be traders will be excluded. So the amendment will not apply to them. It will also not apply in respect of transactions which have been the subject of notifications under section 52 of the Act. The Treasurer said: 
Transactions in shares falling within the 18- month period will continue to be treated on the basis of the current provisions of the law. 
Further details were announced after that statement was made and this legislation is designed to bring into effect these amendments to section 26a of the Act. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports dealt with the desirability as he saw it of a capital gains tax. There will be those on the other side of the House who will in some instances see merit in a capital gains tax. I have stood in this place before and suggested that, irrespective of whether one considers a value added tax, a capital gains tax, a net worth tax or any of the many other forms of taxation, in all probability one can get better equity in the system if there are 3 variables instead of 2 with which to juggle. 
Leaving aside indirect taxation, let us consider the direct burden of death duties on the costs of production on what is largely a rural estate. Every time the property changes hands there is a built-in extra cost on the production of that farm. This is a serious matter. It was perhaps not so serious 5 years ago, but it is very serious today because no margin is left on so many rural properties. In fact, as the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  undoubtedly understands, for the first time ever, the average wage of a person on the land having an average investment of $30,000 is clearly behind the wage of the average wage earner in this country. This is the first time that that has happened. I do not know of it happening in any other country in the world at the present time. It may well have happened elsewhere before, but it is new to this country. 
I am not against a capital gains tax as such, but I do not know - nor do many honourable members in this House know - precisely what it means. I am all in favour of any inquiry which will look in depth at the implications of such taxes and advise governments, no matter what colour they are, what they should do in relation to them. If I may return to the matter of death duties on rural estates, I point out that if one could juggle death duties and income tax against a third form of taxation I am quite certain that there would be better equity than one is able to get today. It may well be that it would be necessary to spell out clearly the variations from one to the other, which is a concept that this country has not noted in the past. But, whether or not that is the case, I think that any triangular approach to taxation problems has advantages in elasticity and advantages in equity far exceeding those of the present situation. 
If, for instance, a government were to suggest that rural estates be exempted from death duties in the federal sphere one would also have to look very seriously at the problems of other estates. That is obvious. It would be quite unfair to discriminate in favour of one section and against another. But as a proposition in economics I invite the Opposition to look carefully at what I am suggesting. The old system of taxing the blazes out of someone who dies and so adding to the cost of production of a rural estate is something that I do not believe should be allowed to exist unless the situation is balanced in some other way. For the sake of the future of this nation - I hope I am not making in a biased fashion - I do not believe that it is a tenable proposition to tax economic rural properties out of existence any more than that it is to tax any other section of the community out of existence. Times change from one year to the next in terms of the seriousness of any proposition. It may be that 5 years ago, as I have already said, my proposition would not have merited serious thought, but it does today. 
I shall conclude my remarks, which I said earlier would be confined purely to section 26a of the Act, by commending the Government, with all the sincerity I can muster, for what I regard as a very great breakthrough indeed. It will result in the use of the resources of people who do not even know that their resources are being used. It will result in the use of the unquestionable wealth of, for example, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  for, I hope, the good of the community. It might be invested in an Australian enterprise and result in a higher proportion of Australian ownership in risk areas. Australians have always been pretty good at taking a punt, unless they have some physical barrier in their way. Let us face it, the old section 26a left so much uncertainty that it was, I maintain, a physical barrier to the ordinary person to invest. 
I would like to take the honourable member for Melbourne Ports a little to task on one comment that he made. He said that the people of Australia, in his opinion, were not great investors. This may well be so, but I think of the office staff in the area in which I work, I think of the office staff in other areas and I think back to some years ago when the ordinary people of Australia were putting their 10c where their mouths were. One may have an opinion as to whether this was healthy or unhealthy. They were putting up cash to back Australian speculative investments. I see merit in that, and I believe that any political party that ignores the right of people to invest as they think fit or that does not encourage people to take a proper interest in Australian enterprise is probably not on the right road. I conclude by congratulating the Government for this great breakthrough. I regard it as unimportant in that it does not affect many people, but I regard it as tremendously important insofar as it is of benefit to Australian enterprise. 
I have been under attack tonight on several scores. In the brief time available to me I shall reply to the charges. Let me first of all deal with the Press release that the honourable mem- ber for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  have mentioned. I think it must be obvious to the Opposition as well as to other members of this House that already, rightly or wrongly, there has been an announcement in the Press relating to the removal of the wine excise. As well as that an announcement was made at 1.30 this afternoon. On the basis of this announcement and because this matter is of grave importance to me and my electorate, I issued a very concise and generalised Press report. I do not retract it. 
I am becoming a little fed up, and so are very many other people in my electorate and in towns in South Australia, with the completely hollow stand taken by members of the Opposition. The Opposition spokesman on rural matters was not able to, or did not attend a meeting some time ago, and the honourable member for Sturt turned up in his place. At that meeting - I suppose for the fifth time - I again taunted the Opposition with accusations of playing politics. If I make that charge I should substantiate it. I substantiate it this way. The Labor Party has had endless opportunities to produce a policy that would help the wine industry or the wine growers. As far as I am aware it has never produced such a policy. I have said time and time again that its only reply all along the line has been that the Government introduced the excise and that the Government should remove it. This is a legitimate Opposition ploy, but there are those of us on this side of the House who have not had the luxury of putting a political argument all the time but who have worked sincerely and extremely hard to try to get the Government to change direction for the sake of the industry and the growers. This is an entirely honest and sincere remark. I do not blame the Opposition for the stand it has taken. It has its game to play, but let those people who have a genuine interest in the industry, whether they be growers or anybody else, know that there are those of us on this side of the House who have worked hard to make the Government reverse its trend in relation to this matter. 
I can understand very well the disappointment of the Opposition tonight. It is clutching at any straws. The issue is not whether there are straws that can be clutched at. The issue is that the wine grape growers, the wine industry and indeed those in country towns have very well understood that we have been able to get some benefit for them. I have not the slightest doubt that this measure will be very well accepted in the wine producing areas. From time to time we are confronted with the problem of how to collect revenue. I cannot talk for the rest of those on this side of the House involved in this matter, but I have always said from the word go that the disadvantage suffered by the wine industry in relation to its competitors will not be removed until the industry picks up. I personally will try to do whatever I can to reverse conditions that adversely affect that industry. Everybody in this House knows that this is true. Just prior to Easter, speaking to the motion That the House do now adjourn', I stated almost precisely what I have repeated here tonight, and all I got were mild grins and nods of agreement from the Opposition. Not once did members of the Opposition take the opportunity to refute the charges - I hope polite charges - I was levelling at their heads. We have had enough of this nonsense. For too long now people have been trying to play a cheap political trick in relation to wine excise. It has been fought out through the Press and fought out- 
If I might continue very briefly, and I have not a great deal more to say at this stage- 
That the question be now put 
I, too, treat this as a most serious matter and I wish to say only 2 things. I have said them already, but I think it is right that I should repeat them. An afternoon paper - without actually naming it, but it is here if anybody wishes to see it - quoted quite fully the sort of news that has been relayed to the House by the Minister. The 1.30 p.m. radio news did the same thing. If I am in contempt of the House - and I trust that I am not - it is because I produced a Press release on the basis of those 2 announcements, perhaps in error of proper procedure - maybe that is so - because of my complete concern for my own electorate and my own growers on this matter, and I do not apologise for that concern. 
Does the Minister for Education and Science regard the Government parties as the only major parties totally involved in the education of all Australian children? 
I apologise to the House for a certain loss of volume tonight and hope that it will bear with me. I am particularly anxious to take up the remarks of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and for once to inform him that I also am very perturbed about the plight of the canned fruit industry and the growers of the raw material behind this industry. I have been so perturbed that I have had several telephone discussions with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in relation to the matter. I have also written several letters and I have with me a copy of one of them dated 8th August 1972. This letter deals with the possibility of section 96 grants; it deals with suggestions relating to subsidies on various forms of freight; it deals with the possibility of some increased payment for sugar rebate; it deals with reduction of various interest rates on borrowed moneys that could affect these canneries; it deals with compensation against losses due to revaluation being pegged on statistics for 1967; it deals with voluntary quota restrictions; and, in more depth, it deals with the possibility of extending the terms of the tree-pull scheme. I am of the opinion that, if we could enlarge the scope and conditions behind that scheme, it might eventually prove to be the cheapest way out of the industry's problems. So I have developed that, as I have developed the problem of orderly marketing, on the hypothesis of a 2-price scheme which will remind honourable members of other industries. Also I have gone fairly fully into the matter of the possibility of lowering other cost inputs in relation to this industry. 
That deals with those initial approaches. As well as that quite recently the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  every Government senator from my State and I waited on the Minister and made certain other suggestions in discussing the headlines, if I might put it that way, that I just mentioned from that letter that I wrote on 8th August. So my concern over this matter has been very great indeed. Of course, if one has been, as I have been, in consultation with some of the industry leaders over a long period of time, one finds that the case they produce bears very markedly on the problem that they had to put up with due not only to one of their competitors - South Africa, which devalued by 12.8, from memory, as against sterling, but a greater valuation of that as against the American dollar - but also a subsequent floating of the 1 sterling and altogether a price disadvantage on export markets of something well over 20 per cent in a short period of time. This is only one of the problems of the industry. 
I will not bore the House, if honourable members can hear me, by going through all the problems, but the main problem is that of exports due to currency re-arrangements and the fact that 60 per cent of volume is sold on: the United Kingdom market - a volume that might well turn out to be 30 per cent or less if and when the new conditions applying to Britain joining the Common Market come into effect. So fundamentally, I think, it is a short term problem of an over supply of the raw material on the one hand and possibly a short term problem of too many canneries to get an economy of scale into the industry on the other hand. My own State, for instance, is not so concerned with pears, either fresh or canned, as, for instance, is the State of Victoria. I have looked at the forecast statistics which make it quite plain that within 4 or 5 years there could well be a shortage of peaches, which is the main primary produce in my area of Riverland. So one cannot altogether say with a sweep of the hand that it is a matter of industry over-planting or over-supplying, because this is not the whole story. 
The main reason I am on my feet tonight is because there were some elements of the speech by the honourable member for Riverina with which I agree. But I also wish to point out that the worst thing that could happen to the canned fruit industry and to pretty nearly all export industries would be if a move were to be made in this Parliament tomorrow to appreciate the Australian dollar as against other currencies. I was astounded and shocked this afternoon to hear the reported comments by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which I can only feel is indicative of the policy his Party would adopt if it took over the reins of government. 
If the honourable member says it is misrepresentation, all I can do, as 1 heard the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  do after question time this morning, is read out from the document that has been tabled already. Would the honourable member think that that is misrepresentation? 
By whom - your Leader? I have here the script of what  Mr Whitlam  said. Now where is the misrepresentation?  Mr Speaker,  I think all I can do is read the question and repeat the total answer so that there is no chance of doing a 'Hawke' and quoting only half of the answer. The question was: 
On inflation, and in reference to the Reserve Bank statement of the other day, would you endorse what they have had to say about Inflation, that it could be reduced either by revaluing the dollar . . . 
There the Leader of the Opposition cut across the question which had not been quite completed and said: 
Yes. 1 agree with that entirely. I think the Australian dollar is under valued, that as long as that remains it will promote Inflation in Australia. lt will promote this useless inflow of money from overseas. It is not something that politicians like to talk about because with an election coming on people will immediately assume that if we are elected, that's what we will do. But you ask me, I am quite convinced that the Australian d oiler ought to be appreciated in value. 
There is no other way I can interpret that remark and I do not believe there is any other way that my electorate can interpret it. I do not believe that there is any other way the electorate of the honourable member for Riverina can interpret that remark. I do not believe there is any possibility of that statement not being a true statement of the thoughts of the alternative Prime Minister of this country. If the honourable member for Riverina wishes to get up and shed crocodile tears on behalf of an industry which concerns him not nearly as much as it concerns me in my electorate, I think be should start to go to work on his own Leader and try to make sure that small industries representing decentralised towns in this country are not put to the sword on the capricious whim of an unthought-out statement by a leader of a political party. I have no doubt that he meant what he said. I will conclude my remarks with that comment. I regard this as a genuine document. I must presume that the Leader of the Opposition knows what he is talking about. I think it is a crying shame if small industries in country towns are to be subjected to the sort of pressures that this statement put on them. 
1 address my question to the Treasurer. Are there any examples in the world scene of a currency crisis that has been affected by unwise remarks by political figures? 
I will not take up the time of the House for very long. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has an obvious advantage over me in that he has done some homework on the specific area to which he has applied his mind. However, there is an area to which he has not seen fit to apply his mind and it relates to his own statement that this Government is culpable for not, in his own words, looking after the endeavour of the small man or not having the endeavours of the small man at heart. Quite patently the position of the oil industry, as I understand it, is that the interest of the small man, the consumer, in Australia is very largely protected by the South Australian Prices Commissioner. South Australia at present has a Premier who  i3  a very well known person and who is, I think, a close colleague of the honourabb member for Adelaide. 
Yes. I just ask whether it is he or the Prices Commissioner who is not competent. Let us face it, we cannot have it both ways. The Prices Commissioner was appointed to look after the consumer's interests in South Australia. As far as I am aware, he controls the prices of a series of petroleum products throughout Australia every time he makes a decision in South Australia. We on this side of the House have had to sit for some time over the last few weeks listening to debates going backwards and forwards on whether or not unions should use force and pressure on large companies which have the capacity to pay. The debate has been very largely centred on whether the unions have been a trifle over the fence or a trifle unfair by trying to impress their latest wage claims on petroleum companies. The unions and the Opposition have had 2 things running for them. One has been that some of these petroleum companies are overseas-owned companies and the other has been that they are said to have the capacity to pay. There is meant to be no doubt about this. 
How have these companies got the capacity to pay what is sought if the South Australian Prices Commissioner is doing his job? Surely the job of the Prices Commissioner is to look at price levels to see whether the prices of those oil companies are exorbitant. Either they are exorbitant and there is some essence of truth in what was said tonight by the honourable member for Adelaide or they are not exorbitant and the Prices Commissioner is doing his job. There seems to be no way in which to prove whether this is so, and I will acknowledge in passing that possibly the speech made by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  has some relevance to this matter. Honourable members on this side of the House at any rate did not necessarily come down in the last shower. We understand very fully some of the invoicing tactics which are adopted by companies, no matter whether they are small companies, may I hasten to add, or large companies in the fuel industry. The only reason I rose tonight was to say that if there is exorbitant charging by those companies, the Prices Commissioner in South Australia, if he is competent, would not award rises in the price of petrol.  His  job is to protect the consumer. One presumes that sometimes the theory of price control might have some merit. If the honourable member for Adelaide is correct in his contentions- 
 Quite true - it is only a maximum price. If the honourable member for Adelaide is correct in his contentions tonight, in effect what he is saying is that price control or price fixing, which is such a favourite hobby-horse of his, cannot work. 
I move: 
That the debate be adjourned.  (Opposition members interjecting) - 
Opposition  members - Yes. 
Debate (on motion by Mir  Giles)  adjourned. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the disquiet within the canned fruit industry throughout Australia at the past Victorian policy of issuing further water licences for the growing of fruit under irrigation? Will the Minister take up with the new Hamer Government the possibility of a reversal of this shortsighted policy which has consistently added to the industry surplus? 
Tonight in considering these Estimates dealing with the Treasury I should like to follow perhaps a more rational train of thought than we may have seen evidenced over the last fortnight in respect of the problem of exchange rates. I do not believe that it matters as much if I propound on exchange rates as it might matter if other people more importantly placed were to take up the challenge and discuss the issue. Let us consider the implications behind any such action or any academic examination of the problem of our own currency rates as against other currencies. First of all, I believe that there is no black or white line that can be taken in regard to these matters. When one considers a matter like this in depth there are always a great many pluses and a great many minuses. 1 think there is a necessity to compromise under these conditions because there are no exact answers. 
Honourable members have heard frequently that economics in itself is not an exact science and the thinking behind it is not cold, hard, objective or clear cut. Very largely it is faith and guess work. It is a matter of balancing all the facts that the top Treasury official or the top economist of the day can gather. Then 9 times out of 10 he will not have all the facts that can be considered. I imagine that it is for this very reason that over many years Parliament or some other source apart from the top economists and the best thinkers in the land had been vested to make the final decision because so many other factors arise involving whether a country town will remain or whether it will pass out of existence or whether an industry, in spite of its fluctuations, has been a worthwhile industry for Australia and will remain or pass out of existence. 
Essentially, in the main, academic people are looking at this problem on the one hand - I think properly looking at it - and on the other hand practical men are looking at it. I can see,  Mr Chairman,  you rising to that description. Practical men so often are practical and successful businessmen. It is amazing when one hears them talk, how often their interests happen to coincide with the national interest. One of our jobs and one of the jobs of the academics when exchange rates are examined is to rationalise properly the views that are expressed. 1 can almost see my friends on the Opposition side say: 'Of course, that is true and all successful, practical businessmen are selfish'. That is the mistake they make. Very frequently the interests of large industries coincide with the national interests and the national aspirations. Somebody has to adopt the means of checking and balancing these points of view. 
Nobody would deny, I think, that the future welfare of a company such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, for instance, has a very real effect on the national interests of Australia. Other factors, of course, must be considered. First of all, in this age and day we are not in isolation in Australia; we are part of an international pattern. We have international responsibilities and we are not entirely free agents. We do, for instance, still have the Bretton Woods agreement. We can buck the system and even develop some short term advantage by so doing but in the long term does the quid pro quo necessarily mean that we hang on to any advantage we may have gained in the short term? There is a morality today in international finance, particularly for small nations. Dishonour should go with the nation that breaks agreements readily. A country of Australia's size should build goodwill and not be subjected to subtle discriminations. Factors occur other than those due to proper pressures in the market place and these many people can decide and think over for themselves. Again I state that I believe that any action that is taken cannot be taken in isolation. For instance^ there are currency difficulties which can lead to physical controls that have a very great effect on exchange. 
The Group of 20, I do not think, has a mortgage on proper answers and as one in the outside councils rather than the inside councils I do not believe that Australia will really take much part in the policy of future currency arrangements. In fact one could take the view that a Council of 20 will be probably twice as ineffective as say the Council of 10. Certainly it will be twice as slow to come to a decision. No matter what the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development might suggest, Australia is on the outer council of the Council of 20 and we may as well remember it. 
One of the important sides to the argument on revaluation that one hears is whether it will help overcome inflation. Inflation is too high and remains a danger to us. What would revaluation achieve? Firstly, it would achieve certainly greater import competition. Secondly, it would certainly slow investment flows. The former may achieve a price stabilisation tendency. The latter is a more doubtful argument - that is the slow investment flow - and may not be true. It would be a challenge to our economy and, I think, salutary, but at best it is doubtful if revaluation is a practical answer to these problems. For instance, what is the nature of capital investment? What happens to retained profits? Is two-thirds reduction a worthwhile national investment? Is it worthwhile substituting a sort of investment. 
Can we have in this country (a) growth and (b) national ownership complete and by and large? Obviously we cannot have a high level of both, so where is our economy? We have a debit on invisible accounts. We have a huge balance of payment credit. I do not believe that revaluation is necessarily the answer to the sort of conditions that are implied behind this question. We do not even know whether the balance of payment surplus is permanent. Furthermore why should we move? Others hold interesting academic arguments that huge and powerful economies such as West Germany and Japan are not moving at this stage and that indeed the United Kingdom will be posed fairly shortly with entry into the European Economic Community. Is not this the sort of occasion when many nations may have to have a look at their particular level of currency at that time? Our exports currently are up 13 per cent in value. Our imports are static. If all our nation's debts had to be serviced at present it would cost 20 per cent of our earnings. The Australian economy over 9 months may be overvalued. The Australian economy over 5 years certainly was not overvalued. I do not know whether the current condition represents a fluctuation or whether it is the establishment of a trend. But no matter what it is, the economic conditions in either case should not be a matter of hasty judgment but should be a matter of long term considered judgment. A small nation must wait and must be prudent. Sterling at present is floating. Australia has appreciated its currency by 4 per cent approximately already due to that happening. It has appreciated by 6 per cent recently with the United States dollar. It has had a small depreciation as against the Japanese currency. The last factor to which I wish to refer is the effect, if any, of any such revaluation on the domestic market. Here we are posed with the sort of Budget strategy, if that can be considered. 
Has the Treasurer noticed a Press comment of a report from the Bank of New South Wales relating the phrase 'incomes policy' to the phrase totalitarian enforcement'? Does he agree with the report that such measures would be a stop-gap attempt to deal with inflation without affecting its root causes? 
I wish to take a few minutes to complete the speech that I tried to fit into 10 minutes the other day in relation to the estimates for the Treasury. I had got to the point of debating the problem of revaluation and was about to refer to the effect of any revaluation on the local scene. I want to say quite clearly from the outset that if honourable members pause to think - of course, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is interjecting, could not do that because he has a hollow where he should have grey matter- 
Once again we have the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill before the House. It is not quite an annual event, if my memory serves me correctly, but it has cropped up in many years. Further big sums at this stage are being poured into areas of deficiency in the war service land settlement scheme. One hopes as every year goes by that the necessity for this action will no longer exist but nearly every year we find there is a need for the appropriation of a sum of money for the purposes spelt out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  1 do not know how much longer the experts behind the concept of planned settlement imagine that this sort of funding will be necessary.  I suppose  in saying that it is as well to hark back to the fact that repayments are made, I think, to Consolidated Revenue rather than to any fund for the financing of headworks, blocks or the settlers. 
In this case we all tend to talk about the areas we know the best. I am more interested naturally in the $4. 156m allocated to South Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry numbered off some of the problems of the area and some of the ways in which the funds will be used. I intend to do as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  did and refer firstly to Kangaroo Island which, although not within my electorate, was certainly an area which I represented for 5i years in the South Australian Parliament. Although I had no direct responsibility as an elected member of the Lower House in those days, it was an area in which interest was taken by those who came from the high rainfall areas in South Australia, as I did. I remember the early struggles of the settlers. It is now 13 years since I first represented Kangaroo Island. I was reminded by a word used in the Minister's second reading speech of the physical limitations of the country at that time. Some of the clearing methods adopted were haywire to say the least and left many of the settlers on Kangaroo Island with paddocks which to this day, I would not mind betting, are not cuttable for the purposes of making meadow hay or silage. Majestic ploughs went into that country and into very wet areas in the rush to clear and develop. They scarred the countryside in a way that would never have occurred under a normal development programme such as the one which my own development block in the south-east of South Australia formed part. To anyone who knew anything about the matter, it was a very second rate method of land clearing which was adopted on Kangaroo Island. So the settlers there had not only this problem to deal with but also the problems mentioned by the Minister, problems such as maintaining flock numbers as a result of losses caused by dystocia - I will come back to that in a moment - transport and marketing difficulties and, to please the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who I can see is fraught with excitement over the whole thing, the problem of union difficulties on the island. The unions can if they wish take advantage of the problems I have mentioned. 
But let us get back to the first problem, the biological problem. I am now going back 15 years to the time when dystocia suddenly hit that particular area of South Australia for the first time. At that time dystocia was purely a disease of the early maturing clover regions of Western Australia. The Minister has listed the names of the clovers all of which, I think, originated in Western Australia, and which have the capacity to produce high oestrogen contents which have been responsible for such devastating effects on the sheep population. The principal clover which caused dystocia problems in those days was Dwalganup. It is a subterranean clover. Since then other clovers have become more suspect. Dystocia produced grave difficulties for the settlers. It caused milk production in wethers, and this did not help one bit. It caused a high mortality rate in lambs. What the Minister did not mention in his second reading speech and what was even more devastating was the fact that it caused great infertility in the ewe flocks. In these circumstances, allied with the problems of transport, inaccessibility and poor land clearing methods adopted earlier, dystocia has created a great problem for the war service land settlers in that area. 
AH I can do, when I look at the great benefits to be given to this area under this legislation, is to express my wonderment that suddenly this amount of finance is to be made available. In his second reading speech the Minister said that the proposed programme would enable the continuance and enlargement of scientific investigations into these matters, would provide for partial rental remissions and would allow credit for fodder conservation. I shall refer to fodder conservation presently. The programme will deal with the recasting of settlers' accounts in appropriate cases and will make provision to enable creditworthy settlers to pay off stock mortgages. Some of these provisions are part of the normal rural reconstruction measures that the Government has introduced and carried out from time to time. 
When I look at this tremendous breakthrough for the settlers of Kangaroo Island I think of 2 people who consistently over a 15-year period battled hard for those war service settlers. The first man cannot stand in this House and stick up for himself. He is the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  whose persistence in these matters is, I think, well acknowledged. The second person is a man who is retiring from politics. He is the State member for Alexandra, which includes Kangaroo Island,  Mr David  Brookman who was at one time the South Australian Minister of Agriculture. These 2 men have always been tremendous champions of the cause of the settlers in those areas, including a time when I was indirectly representing Kangaroo Island for  5i  years in the South Australian Legislative Council. I think also of the determination to wreak some changes and to introduce some constructive thinking on this . matter of the then Minister of Lands in South Australia,  Mr Quirke,  MP. If I remember correctly he started his political life in the Australian Labor Party. It did not take him long to see the light. Thereafter he spent most of his life as an Independent but he completed his wonderful metamorphosis by becoming the Minister of Lands in the Playford Government before eventually he retired honourably from the unequal struggle. These 3 men are some of the people who made an impact in these areas. However, none of their efforts will have made as much impact as the tremendously worthwhile contribution to those settlers envisaged in the Bill we are now debating, but which is probably due to their efforts. 
If I have any complaint about the legislation it is where it states that some of the funds being made available are to be used as credit for fodder conservation. I am not clear what this means. If it means a return to the English system of subsidising anyone who builds a hay shed or if it means finding funds for people to buy conservation materials I think it is an appallingly bad idea which should not be continued. If it is designed to help in parlous circumstances - for instance, in drought conditions - and to give financial help in respect of fodder conservation it may have some merit on a short term basis. My argument here is the same as my argument against the ultimate development of the brigalow country. 
If ever an area was plagued by Federal financial help where such help should never have gone it was the brigalow country. I know of one firstclass South Australian family which had some experience in clearing land, even in Queensland. That family would have taken over vast sections of the brigalow country if it had been given any private encouragement. 1 would bet my last dollar that that area would be a damn sight more forward as a rural enterprise had that happened than it is now after having been spoiled by all the Federal help that has been poured into it. However, that is another matter. I am simply being consistent in saying that there are areas where Federal Government assistance should not go. I am sure that fodder conservation, depending what is meant by it in this legislation - no doubt this will be explained to me - is one of those areas where people carry out the necessary procedures far better than does a government. If loans were granted at 3 per cent to war service land settlers for fodder conservation equipment then that would be entirely excellent and I would go along with it. 
In the time remaining to me I must refer to those areas with which I am more directly concerned, namely, the Riverland areas. For a. period of 2 to 3 years now 1 have been most concerned about appeals for a review of valuations of soldier settler blocks in that area. Last year at this time I castigated the Minister by saying that although many appeals had been heard, as far as I could ascertain no action had resulted. As late as July of this year the same situation appertained. I do not have with me at present the details concerning how many appeals were heard but within the last  2  weeks I have heard - this is rumour only - that 3 settlers will have the valuations of their blocks altered as a result of appeals. Quite obviously one of the settlers who is to receive some recompense is entitled to it. He had planted, under this scheme, areas of citrus in frost pockets where they could not hope to continue to produce quality oranges in even  4  years out of  5.  Obviously from that circumstance must evolve some alteration to a valuation. This farm contains  2  or 3 acres of soft fruits as well as citrus and these plantings of soft fruits have carried that man, not his major areas of citrus which should have been playing their part in determining his future. In this case there should be a review of valuation. I believe a similar sort of situation applies in 3 of these blocks. However I have heard only indirectly and not officially that there will be some alteration to their valuations. Evidently in no case has the valuation of a farm been lowered other than in those instances I have mentioned. 
I think back to the speech I made at this time last year - I do not think it was the year before - when I said that with an association in my electorate permission had been obtained from the Minister for exservicemen to have the right to take on the debts of surrendered leases and so amalgamate areas. For a long while the reserve prices prior to the surrendered leases being put to auction were unduly high and no ex-serviceman could properly take over this commitment. Unfortunately from their point of view, farms have been recently put up for sale where the reserve price has been, say, $10,000 and where $14,000 has been paid at the auction through outside civilians coming into the auction field. I think that people such as myself should know the answers and should be told by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  precisely what has happened as a result of those appeals. 
I will not refer to several of the matters on which I wished to speak this afternoon. I will content myself with once again trying to impress this thought on the Minister: One of the 2 principles behind rural reconstruction - nobody in this House would say that he is against this principle - is to amalgamate non-economic areas to try to make future farmers viable, subject to certain qualifications about the standing of the farmer and his financial position. Nobody would argue about that. But in this case, too often blocks are surrendered by ex-servicemen who, in some cases have reached the age of 60 and above - sometimes health forces them to surrender their blocks - and who frequently have no good will and no assets remaining against their debt. When these leases are surrendered it is totally inconsistent for the Government to continue to refuse to proportion those blocks and to build up to viable areas remaining blocks around them. This business of insisting upon the resale of surrendered blocks at auction is not consistent with the good principles that the Government adopts in other areas of rural reconstruction. 
Once again I make a plea for the exservicemen who have properly been awarded war service land settlement blocks. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said a while ago, each new land settlement scheme continues to subdivide land so that individual areas become too small and are not viable. For goodness sake, when we have the chance to secure these blocks through the leases being surrendered in some of these areas, let us do the intelligent thing and make the blocks viable. We should sub-divide the blocks and add to the areas of the better farmers so that they can be put in a viable position. My complaint is that they are not subdivided and aggregated to other areas. They are left as whole farms for takeover in their totality at a reserve price by exservicemen. The facetious remarks being made by honourable members opposite can go to blazes; I am trying to finish my speech. I am not amused by the humour of members of the Australian Labor Party in relation to matters that are soul destroying to ex-servicemen. I hope that I may con tinue uninterrupted. I want to see that these farmers have some protection in the future and that the principles that are adopted be those adopted by the Government in the case of rural reconstruction in relation to aggregation of areas. 
I hope I have made my point clearly. I will not support the amendment. I do not have much time to deal with .it, but I do not support at this stage any further closer settlement schemes while the marketing condition of so many primary industries is as it is today. I am not one who agrees with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  that we have a limited supply of dairy products; in fact; the opposite is the case. We now have a surplus arising in every area of that industry and in every area of the canned fruit industry, the dried fruit industry and in many other industries. I do not believe that until we find more consumer and export demand there is a case for closer settlement. I therefore do not like the word 'future' in the Opposition's amendment and I convey the fact that I will not support it. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has seen reported statements by  Mr Casey,  the South Australian Minister for Agriculture, to the effect that brucellosis vaccination of cattle must now be totally charged to the farming community? Is it true that this action is due to withdrawal of Federal Government funds previously used for this purpose, as claimed by  Mr Casey? 
One of the problems in any election year, with a properly functioning Opposition, is that there is the opportunity - I think the people of Australia should recognise it - for people who owe no responsibility to the nation to go throughout its length and breadth telling people what they want to hear. This is not a good idea from the point of view of responsible government, and all sorts of party decisions and policies are made up for the wrong reasons. I think honourable members will agree with me that it is a rarity to find Ministers and, indeed, members with enough plain, old-fashioned guts to stand up for an unpopular decision because they know that that unpopular decision is in the best interests of the nation. To find a situation where this applies one has only to think of my friend the Minister for Immigration and honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  and many other people who, in the interests of the nation, have the capacity to take a courageous decision when it should be taken. 
One can think of honourable members who do not have this capacity. The one who is particularly irritating me tonight - I put off my speech last night because I was told he was not in the House - is the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  If ever there was a member of this Parliament who has the propensity to go from one area to another trying to tell the people in each area what they want to hear, regardless of the welfare of the nation and frequently regardless of the interests of the industries he is referring to, the classic example of recent times has been the honourable member for Riverina. I would like to remind honourable members of one or two things so that they may judge objectively whether the point I have brought forward has merit. Surely that is the very substance of democracy. 
Let us consider a statement he made recently in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Barker, near the town of Naracoorte. The only reference I have to it is a Press release by the honourable member for Riverina published in the Melbourne 'Sun'. The matter was much more heavily exemplified in the Adelaide Press at the time but I regret that I do not have that with me. Referring to the wheat industry, the honourable member said: 
. the Government used its power to drive thousands of people out of the wheat industry. 
I would like the honourable member for Riverina to tell me how the Government drove people out of the wheat industry. If the industry's decisions, contrary to the Government's decisions, drove people out of the wheat industry surely they were the corporation farmers, the big industry farmers, and not the professional wheat farmers, who were driven out if anybody has been driven out. The reason for this was that well known big business firms - I will not mention them - grew vast areas of wheat, and the quota system introduced by the industry made it very difficult for those whose production quotas had gone up very rapidly to draw, according to the industry's decision, a quota that made their new operations viable. I do not know whether the honourable member for Riverina would be opposed to a quota on wheat in this particular case. If he is opposed to a quota on wheat, presumably he does not want to protect the small wheat farmer. 
Exactly. If he wishes to encourage the corporation farmers there is not much left, for those towns in Australia that are surrounded by the grain growing industry, and the wheat industry in particular. If that is not bad enough, to demonstrate my original premise quite seriously, let us look at the plank of the Australian Labor Party which has been published recently. Under the heading 'Wheat' ii says: 
Quotas will be fixed well in advance of preparatory land workings. 
Surely this means nothing if not that the Labor Party in its official platform says that it believes in the principle of quotas. Yet the honourable member for Riverina, as he goes through the length and breadth of the country telling every section what it wants to hear, is guilty of a frightful subterfuge. There is no excuse for pulling the legs of people whose future and livelihood depend on these things. I take a very poor view of anyone who is prepared, in the interests of political expediency, to lead people on or to pull their legs in regard to an industry in which they are involved. I think that this is a highly reprehensible business. 
I will leave aside tonight the implications of another of the honourable member's statements, namely, that the Russians have established the need in all phases of their industry for direct personal incentives. I leave aside also numerous other statements that have not been debated in this chamber yet because I wish to come to 5 questions that he posed in the same article to which I have referred, relating to the dairy industry of which I have some knowledge. The first thing he said was that Australia came within a week of having to import butter last year. 
That is a reasonable statement. It happens to be true. But it does not describe the reasons behind that situation. Clearly this was due to a seasonal production lapse at the tail end of that last producing year, 1970-71. As a result of it, the Australian Dairy Produce Board acted responsibly and correctly in rationalising export quotas to individual exporters of butter, butter oil and ghee. The effect of that was that we did get through - although it was close - without having to import undue quantities of butter. I think that disposes of the rest of the story he did not tell in that regard. 

 His second comment was that Australia had failed to meet its export quota of butter to the United Kingdom every year for 3 years despite the highest prices since World War 2. We have to look at the United Kingdom quota entitlements. In 1969-70 some 62,100 tons were exported and the quota was 65,100 tons. In 1970- 71 some 51,500 tons were exported and the quota was 67,400 tons. Because of the shortage of butter in world trade the United Kingdom import quota arrangements were replaced by an open individual licensing system for most of the 1971-72 season. As a matter of judgment, the industry had a state of reduced production from the adverse season I have already mentioned. Further, the industry's policy of diversifying exports to markets other than the United Kingdom was obviously the proper decision for the industry to make. In addition, the honourable member for Riverina did not take into account the acute world shortage of butter at that time. It is of no use taking the view, as the honourable member for Riverina does, that Government action has kept down production to meet markets, because already this year the European Common Market has a surplus building up. Already this year Australia has problems in selling butter at anything like the value of the previous year. 
It is totally dishonest to go through electorates, such as the electorate of my colleague that 1 have mentioned before and make statements that are just not true. If they had any semblance of truth they were true last year, but they are far from true this year. Again I must draw the attention of honourable members to the dishonesty of this sort of remark, no matter who makes it. Nothing is more reprehensible to my mind than the fact that people whole livelihood is involved in some industry should be told a story that is inaccurate by someone whom they look up to. I could go on in regard to this. The honourable member also stated that because of cut-backs in Australia's production, the industry and producers have lost S8m alone in the British market. I already have dealt with many of the reasons for that, and I have dealt with the fact that the industry had to make a decision whether to send its entire capacity, in a seasonal low production year, to that market or whether to continue to probe for markets that will be of value to that industry when and if Britain joins the Common Market. All of these things are absolutely true. Fluctuations in the export components of any industry are not by any means- . 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time haj expired. 
I would suggest to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that the statement he is criticising is the second reading speech by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1972. If I might draw a phrase from the speech just delivered by the honourable member for Fremantle, I suppose it would be dream time to consider that this is an annual statement on the situation of the Aboriginal race at this point of time and/ or a philosophical study as to how we should look in future at their planned development, if that is the right phrase to use. It is not a statement of that type; it is a very detailed second reading speech dealing with the fact that the Commonwealth intends to provide to the States grants totalling $14.5m for this financial year. That is what this Bill provides. The Minister made the point in his second reading speech that this represents barely a quarter - I think that is the proportion - of the total funds provided by the Commonwealth to the States for this purpose. It would be dream time not to take note of the fact that in the year of the referendum S8.97m was given to the States. Subsequently in 1971-72 $3 1.3m was given as grants to the States for this purpose, and this year the total amount provided is $53.285m. Compare that amount with the $8.9m spent immediately after the referendum. This is the factual comparison of what this Government is attempting to do in providing grants to the States to carry out more worthwhile jobs. 
It is very easy to point to areas throughout Australia and say that not enough has been done. This programme is in its infancy. What is going on now is the typical harping, carping nonsense by the 
Opposition to point these things out, and I do not object to this. I know full well of areas where sufficient funds are being provided to cope with the physical capacity of those areas to use the funds. 
The capacity of the head of the honourable member for Sturt is not one of them. There are those areas and honourable members on the Opposition side know full well that what I have said is true. The Commonwealth Government has only recently come into this new programme. The thing to remember, if we are not to enter the dreamtime, is the statistics to which I have just referred, namely, some $53.285m being provided this year compared with $8. 9m in the year after the referendum. 
I have been in this Parliament for a long time and I have never once debated the issue of Aborigines. I have felt that this was proper because I know and I pretend to know only about the 12 or so missions and reserves in the State of South Australia which, in some instances, I have visited on many occasions. I have never professed to know the position in the Northern Territory. I have never, as have the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and others, visited these areas so I virtually have disqualified myself from debating this subject. I was not on the list of speakers for this debate today, but when I heard some of the most extraordinary remarks which I thought I would ever hear in relation to the future development of the Aboriginal race I thought it only proper for somebody on this side of the House to rise in this debate, although perhaps with not enough thought or not enough homework. This is a spontaneous decision on my part but I think it is necessary. 
Before going on to state my opinions on this matter, I should like to say that I do not know how many honourable members have captained football teams which have played against Aboriginal teams and who on that basis know the Aborigines well. I do not know how many honourable members have played tennis with and freely mixed with them in the country area in which I lived. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  as a great cricketer and a great Alice Springs man, would certainly be one of them. I must say that the experiences of honourable members will cover what I am about to say because I will not be talking so much as other honourable members might about the problem of, may I say, the nomadic tribes which still lead the sort of existence which they have led traditionally for years in outback areas. My experience of those people is only in relation to reserves at Musgrave Park in the top left-hand corner of South Australia and the old Lutheran missions at Ooldea and the rest of the chain of them along the Nullarbor Plain. I intend to comment within the framework of my understanding through having a working knowledge of these people. 
Firstly, I noted that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  referred, I think in reply to an interjection, to the problem of violence and anger, purely as a hypothesis and not something on which he was commenting firmly one way or the other. He replied that we must develop an attempt to properly understand these people. I do not think that an attempt to understand them is purely a matter for the Opposition. I think that any attempt to understand them has to come from a lot of sincere people both in this Parliament and outside it. I would go so far as to say that I for one, having given a lot of thought to this problem, find it most difficult to understand precisely why the last Aboriginal embassy, which unfortunately had to be removed from outside this House, had, on the night of its removal when one of our members went to it, no Aborigines in it. They were all white people. I do not understand why this was so. I do not understand why we have to take so much notice of an Aboriginal embassy that evidently does not have Aborigines in it. I do not know why, when the Aboriginal embassy was set up in Brougham Place, Adelaide, it was set up entirely by interstate Aborigines. There was not a single South Australian Aboriginal involved. 
The Opposition says that we have to understand these things. What do we have to understand? What is the point in setting up an Aboriginal embassy such as the one in South Australia, where there are only interstate Aborigines standing around* - I am being awfully polite - day and night?  1  do not think this is fair to the Aborigines whom I know. I do not think it is fair to the Aborigines with whom I have played sport.  1  do not think for one moment that the Aborigines are doing their cause an ounce of good. I think frankly that members of the Opposition should explain to this Parliament and to the people of Australia just how they feel that the example set by these people in those places is helping the cause of the Aborigines because to the vast majority of Australians it is not helping their cause. The average Australian when he drives past the Aboriginal embassy in Frome Place, Adelaide, sees a crowd of people who evidently make - I stress the word 'evidently' because I do not know - no attempt to get a job, who do not come from South Australia anyway and who display a board on which is written: 'We demand land rights. We demand this and we demand that'. This may be all right except that in South Australia by and large the last  3  governments have had very good programmes of land acquisition for Aboriginal purposes. In fact one could go so far as to say that Aboriginal reserves and stations controlled by them stretch today from close to Ayers Rock on the Northern Territory border right down through the State of South Australia close to the Goyder Line. 
As I said earlier, I have not previously debated Aboriginal matters in this House because I know, and not as well as some others, only about the situation in South Australia. There have been achievements by the South Australian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Pearson,  back in Tom Playford's Government, through to Dunstan as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the Walsh Government, during the days of the Steele Hall Government and to the present Government in South Australia. The people of Australia passed a referendum. As honourable members well know, part of the implication of that referendum was that the Federal Government should lend resources, interest and example to the States to help them equate with the problems of Aborigines. The fact that in South Australia considerable progress has been made is a reflection of that referendum. We are not here - this indicates the stupidity of the Opposition's list of amendments - as a Federal government to guarantee Aborigines jobs in country areas. This is what the amendment says. It goes on through a whole host of matters which are patently and obviously in the area of State responsibility. One can always say that the Federal Government could give more funds to the States for the purposes which this amendment might envisage but I have already cited several cases where physically the States are spending as much as they can in this field. 
The honourable member for Lalor referred to housing of Aborigines. He asked: 'Why should they have to ape Western design?' They certainly do not in my own State, if they do not in South Australia, why do they have to in other States, unless it is factual that a lot of this responsibility is a matter of the performance of one State compared with the performance in another State?  1  have the greatest respect for almost anything which the honourable member for Fremantle says. I finish my few comments on this Bill by trying to explore what the honourable member has in mind when he questions whether these people, for instance as a matter of philosophy, should remain as a distinct people. The honourable member for Fremantle says or implies that in his view they should remain a distinct people. Does he want separate development? On the one hand he says that our capacity to grant lands to the Aborigines is way behind that of the countries of southern Africa. I think he cited Rhodesia as granting nine-tenths land rights to the native people of those areas. On the other hand he suggests that he feels that those people should remain distinct. I admit that this is the basis for a great philosophical argument. But to my mind this is not the answer. The Aborigines I know come from the Ooldeas, the Ernabellas and other northern missions and stations in South Australia until they meet people in the electorate of the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  They might stage with the Port Augustas, the Coober Pedys, and the Andamookas. Many of them then go further south until they become, like my friend Herbie Rigney, the captain of the Goolwa football team, completely mixed in the society of Goolwa. Some of them live at Point Macleay. All of them at this stage are very largely integrated within the areas to which they have gravitated. 
I would take this as being the desirable method for the future development of Aborigines. I would not unduly encourage the concept of separate development or keeping a race apart. Certainly I see great merit in protecting the traditional paintings and cultures of the nomadic tribes. But I hope this Parliament never loses sight of the fact that ultimately the desirable role of the Aboriginal people should be much the same as that of the new Australians who come into this nation with their cultures and traditions, enrich our society with them and become as nearly as possible part of the society of Australia. If we see new Australians forming ghettos, is this distinctive development? Is it separate development? Do we frown on the formation of ghettos in this country and say that these people should not come to Australia at the rate at which they can form into ghettos, be they in Perth or elsewhere? 
Whilst acknowledging the historical significance and rights of the Aboriginal people, this Parliament and this nation must look for the means of helping them most. Unequal treatment to try to help them achieve some ultimate equality within this social spectrum is right, but I abhor the continuation of the Daisy Bates-ism that one hears from time to time in this House which advocates that they should remain as a separate race. I do not believe that this is to their best advantage and I do not believe that it is to the best advantage of the people of Australia who can be enriched by understanding of their many cultures. 
I finish on this note: I cannot agree to the Opposition's list of amendments, most of which I regard as referring to matters which are completely within the sovereign rights and responsibilities of the States to put into effect. Our responsibility is to fund and this has very little to do with the Opposition's amendments. I congratulate the Minister on his second reading speech which gives a lot of detail. But, of course, it is not to be taken as a philosophical long-term study of the entire Aboriginal question. It is a second reading speech on a Bill which gives additional help to the States to cope with this problem and which I support. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister on the matter of Everard Park in South Australia. Can the right honourable gentleman inform me of the present position of negotiations on Everard Park relative to the Government's policy of purchasing land for Aboriginal groups and communities? 
The nation as a whole can be proud of the work done by the previous Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  on behalf of patients throughout this country. We have a scheme that is second to none in any nation of the world today in that it combines responsible government expenditure on the one hand with efficiency of service on the other. The existing scheme offers to the individual a high standard of medical and hospital service, together with freedom of choice of doctor, hospital and benefits fund, at a moderate residual cost to the patient. For the first time for some time we have an alternative Labor scheme that could well be the legislative skittle of the next election. It is something that is quite easy to knock over and I maintain that it is quite easy for the Australian people to understand all its implications. 
 That is one of the very factors I was about to mention. The alternative Labor Party compulsory scheme - a giant stride towards fully nationalised medicine - eliminates freedom of choice of benefits fund, provides only for public ward coverage, aims to destroy private nursing homes and private and independent hospitals, and, as the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  just implied, it will cost the majority of people substantially more for a less effective service. Its main goal is finally to eliminate the private general practitioner and to substitute only salaried doctors. As the previous  speaker  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said, it would encourage overspending in comparison with any overseas country such as the United Kingdom. If the truth be known, the United Kingdom would dearly love to be able to alter its scheme which has cost so much in committed funds. 
This scheme, as I have said, has built in freedoms which 1 maintain are vital to both the individual patient and to the doctor as well as the nation. Contributions to medical and hospital benefit funds are tax deductible. The patient is free to choose between government and private hospitals and nursing homes.  His  freedom of choice at all levels is a spur to competition of services. This is a factor in which the Opposition does not seem to be interested and does not take into account at all. We on this side of the chamber say that this is a vital guarantee - it has proved to be so - of high standards of service to the community. Where competition is destroyed, medical standards can and probably would fall with a corresponding degree of suffering to the patient. To the pensioner the scheme provides free general practitioner treatment, either in the surgery or at home. In complete contradistinction to the schemes of some other nations, it provides free public hospital treatment, free pharmaceutical benefits, very substantial benefits in nursing homes, home nursing services and the provision of hostels and homes for the aged. 
This morning during question time we saw another example of the Opposition's refusal to have a bar of the voluntary benefits organisations. I would remind the House, as the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who is sitting at the table did this morning, of the comments of the Nimmo Committee in relation to this matter. The Nimmo Committee reported as follows: 
The Committee found no support at all for the often expressed view that the number of different organisations adds to the cost of the scheme. We examined the operations of a large number of friendly society and closed funds and found their service to contributors was extremely good and that they had been the most successful organisations in keeping management expenses within proper limits. 
Families with incomes not exceeding $51.30 a week are eligible for free health insurance. In other words, under the present scheme a family with an income of $51.50, which is equivalent to $2,678 per annum, but n&gt;i exceeding $54.50- 
Of course, that is a quits inane and stupid remark and it is not the sort of remark that the majority of the Australian people are interested in. 1 am referring to the ultimate end of the scheme which looks after those on deprived incomes. 
It does, lt looks after those on deprived incomes. If the honourable member has interviewed as many people as I have who do not realise that these facilities exist, he would not make that remark. The third category is those on incomes of $51.50 a week but not exceeding $54.50 who pay one-third of the normal contribution. Families with incomes between $54.50 and $57.50 are asked to pay twothirds of the normal contribution rate for medical benefits coverage and public ward charged. In contradistinction to this, for the first time for a long while we have a scheme that appears to be more firmly spelt out by the Opposition than has been the case at previous elections. What do wc find? We find, as I have conveyed already, that it would be a costly scheme, it could have inferior services and certainly a great destruction of individual choice, whether at the patient level, the hospital level, the nursing home level, or any other level that could apply. The primary source of funds for the scheme appears to be a nev. and compulsory levy, which moves upwards from month to month, on all taxable incomes.The scheme has an escalation clause built into it without any ceiling, as was made quite plain by a recent Labor Party pronouncement on it. Other levies are proposed which I will not mention. As I have mentioned, there are various aspects of limitation of choice within the scheme. 
However, one thing that does concern me is that throughout Australia today there are 96 independent hospitals - that is, private, religious and charitable hospitals. Many of these are staffed at very low operating costs and they provide a total of 7,356 beds. To replace those beds, in capital costs alone, would cost at least $220.7m, I am informed, quite apart from subsequent increases in running costs. In addition, if we look at private hospitals we find that they provide 7,030 beds. The 261 nursing homes provide 9,445 beds and, again, these are run by religious and charitable organisations. One day all of these facilities may be replaced, but ! maintain that not one sensible thinking person would consider doing away with them when there is still a shortage of the very facilities that we are discussing. 
Because of the limited time I have left, I would like now to deal very briefly with ALP policy in relation to salaried specialists, because this is the key to the antagonism which today is spreading through medical circles throughout the country, and certainly throughout my own State of South Australia. I think it is doing so because we got the first indications from the Dunstan Government in South Australia as to what probably will happen in relation to Labor Party thinking in relation to this matter. In the Adelaide Hospital today the seething mass of medicos are up in arms, particularly the younger ones, because they doubt whether the huge amount of work that they have put into their training over perhaps a 9-year period will be warranted; or whether they will be salaried on their present scale somewhat below the average of the community if it is worked out on an hourly basis for work. So I say that the ALP policy is that all doctors at public hospitals shall be salaried. The Labor Party is opposed to fee for service hospitals, and this means that all medical specialists who depend on access to hospitals and their equipment will be nationalised. Recently in South Australia a top thoracic surgeon, perhaps the best in Australia, was asked to give a high proportion of his private salary to the government-run hospitals for the use of the hospitals' facilities. No account is taken of the fact that for about onetwentieth or one-thirtieth of his time he gets by far the majority of his salary and that the nominal pay as an honorary in these hospitals is not up to the standard one would expect for a world famous surgeon. Already these things are becoming apparent and they are a warning to the rest of the medical people and the patients in this nation that Labor is determined to upset the present scheme, with all the efficiency that is built into it and the proper care and concern given by doctors for the welfare of their patients. 
I should like to reply briefly to some of the more outrageous comments by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I have heard  2  speeches tonight that have been totally insincere and totally wrong in almost every detail. One speech was by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  whom I thought to be a fair and objective sort of member of Parliament until I heard him speak tonight. The other speech was a typical speech by the honourable member for Prospect. Honourable members have become accustomed to Eis snide untruths on many occasions, and tonight was no exception. He grins his acceptance of precisely what I have said. Let us analyse some of the comments he made tonight. The first concerned the raeecourse in Indonesia 'in respect of which he more than implied that the Government was wasting foreign aid by donating money to this venture. Not one cent of Government aid has gone to the Indonesian racecourse project. The entire investment from overseas has been by private individuals. It is a good thing that private individuals have seen fit to invest in this sort of project in Djakarta, but it is utterly wrong for honourable members to stand in this chamber and imply that the Government would have a part in such a project. If the honourable member for Prospect suggests that any honourable member from this side should apologise for anything he has said, I suggest that the honourable member would have to apologise  4  times as much for the inconsistencies that he consistently utters in this chamber. I should like also to refer to the honourable member's use of the phrase 'of little prestige to the Government'. 
It is my turn to ladle it out now, and you can sit and cop it, and it is about time you did. I refer to the honourable member's use of the phrase 'of little prestige to this Government'. Only those who sit on whatever they sit on in this chamber would think for one minute that this Government's reputation overseas could be referred to by such a phrase. Only those indolent and idle people who do not get up and go overseas could, for one minute, suggest that that remark might be true. No matter where one goes  throughout the  length and breadth of the world one finds that Australia's aid is second to none. I can quote from the annual report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and from reports from the World Bank all of which say, in effect - I ask the honourable member for Prospect to listen to this - that compared with the aid of any other nation Australia is away ahead and above it. The honourable member for the Australian 
Capital Territory had the unmitigated ignorance to suggest that our aid should be compared with the aid of the United Kingdom and of other European countries, but there is no comparison. I regret having to say it, but the United Kingdom's aid is little better than World Bank loans, yet it counts its contributions as aid. With one exception, with World Bank loans a country enjoys a holiday for 5 years before it starts making capital repayments and meeting interest commitments. If anything, United Kingdom aid is a little bit worse. For any honourable member in this place to compare the aid of the small nation of Australia, given free of interest commitments and of capital repayments, with the sort of aid that comes from Europe is little short of lunacy. I never thought that I would have to sit in this chamber and listen to such a miserable interpretation of the facts as I have heard tonight. The honourable member for Prospect accused the Government of corrupt action in giving aid to nations that support it. I ask: Who is to be the judge of what is a corrupt government and what is not? 
You accused the Government of corrupt - I use that word lightly and it may not have been the word - or wrong actions in giving aid. 
Mir GILES- You have a look at the Hansard record tomorrow morning, if you do not correct it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member for Angas will address the Chair. 
I apologise,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  If the honourable member for Prospect looks at the Hansard record in the morning he will see what he said. I am sure that you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and I will be able to see what he said, but that is the impression I gained. He accused the Government of some form of corrupt action because it dared to give aid to countries because such aid might suit its political purposes. Honourable members opposite have no regard for the free rights of people in those nations and want to dictate political courses by interference and by asserting their point of view on those countries. This seeps through in every utterance by a certain section of the Opposition which rises on debates of this nature. This type of political bias runs through the debates but I will have none of it. I believe that this Government and Australia should give aid where it is needed and I hope that our record will always be along these lines. 
In the brief time remaining to me let us examine the record in terms of fact and not of opinion. During the last decade aid from the Australian Government has trebled. It was $64m in 1961-62 and it was $200m in 1971-72. There is another $20m in the estimates for this year, making $220m. It was given; it was not in loans, not in moneys needing repayment and not in moneys needing an interest commitment. Since the framing of the estimates which we are now discussing another $4.6m has been granted, as announced in statements today. 
Australia is in the top 3 donor countries, no matter whether this is decided on a percentage of gross national product or whether it is decided on a percentage of gross expenditure. One per cent of gross national product was the aim of all free countries in the 1960s. This was not reached. For Australia the direct government aid to which I have referred, plus financial transfers, private investment and voluntary aid to the developing sector, has represented a total of 1.27 per cent of gross national product - not one per cent as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  suggested Australia should give; but 127 per cent. So, as far as I am concerned, Australia clearly leads the world in this field without even taking into account the fact that the aid is given free, as a gift, and is free from both capital repayment and interest commitment. 
There is room to say that this is not a fair method of making a comparison on a country to country basis. But all we can do in Australia is do as other countries have done in the past, namely, use private flow investment, voluntary aid and financial transfers on top of direct government aid as a method of compiling the figures. When we do that, our figure is 1.27 per cent of GNP. I repeat that these are not opinions; these are facts. If we consider aid, whether it be in these forms or in others the first thing we have to realise, if we study the problem properly, is that mere aid from government sectors is not the complete answer for developing nations. It may well be that the gain is much greater from a certain amount of capital inflow whether from a private sector or from any other. Certainly, the third factor of trade is of vital consequence to these countries. How often have we read in the newspapers recently that India has steel. The steel making facilities have been given by foreign aid, but India cannot find markets for the steel it is now producing. So the third factor of trade is equally important. 
This leads me to the last point I wish to make tonight. I feel very strongly in relation to this matter because I remember making my maiden speech on it many years ago when I entered this House. Australia is the only nation, as far as I know - certainly it was up to a year ago - which bent its tariff laws to allow manufactured goods from slowly developing nations to enter it. This policy may not be as effective as it should be. But there would be those, such as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  who would remember the battle Australia had with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to make sure that we got this measure through. It was fought hard by other nations. Today this trade is helped by the fact that Australia is the only nation which allows tariff remission on certain manufactured goods from, speaking from memory, about 57 nations which are classified as developing nations. That is the record of this Government, and the day any government of Australia in the future has such a proud record within such a very short period will be the day. I will be very pleased ifI can ever hear of this record being equalled in the short term. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Dr KLUGMAN (Prospect)- Under standing order 66, from which I quote,I should like to explain myself 'in regard to some material part of my speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood'. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who has just resumed his seat, referred to my alleged attack on the Government for aiding corrupt overseas governments. I point out, because he obviously misunderstood what I said, that on the contraryI did not criticise the governments to whom we were giving aid. I went out of my way to say that we should have given a particular type of aid in the case of Cambodia. I was referring - I do not think I used the word corrupt' but I am quite happy to use it as the honourable member suggested it - to the fact that our Government was corrupt in the sense of buying cast-offs from political and personal friends, for example, Jetair Australia Ltd. 
Has the Prime Minister yet heard from the Premier of South Australia regarding a request for Commonwealth aid for particular drought stricken areas of that State such as Mallee regions? Is this step the accepted procedure in relation to applications for drought aid from the Commonwealth? 
In debating the estimates for the Department of the Interior I think immediately of one of the best examples of regional development in the history of this nation. I refer to the city of Canberra. The concept of regional development will provide exciting and stimulating thinking. Our minds boggle and in many ways our imagination is titillated at the thought of precisely how regional development projects will be established in the future. It can be said that Canberra was founded on the raw material of Parliament and a vast civil service. Those were the resources for its development in geographic terms. Once a city founded on the resource or commodity of people reaches a certain stage economic take-off will occur. One would ask: At what number of people in towns such as Canberra do light consumer industries occur? 
Honourable members may think of regions that they know better than Canberra, such as Albury-Wodonga, Murray Bridge, Orange and Shepparton, that have been developed regionally for one reason or another. Whether we look at developing nations or at regional development in this country, the important question is: At what point does economic takeoff occur? If an area has X population, at what stage in its journey towards 2X population does economic take-off occur? When do proper, viable industries go into that area? The problem that has applied in departments of economics and in areas in which great work has been done on these projects has been to find out how much of this time can be saved by heavy capital infusions. The 2 variables are: At what stage economic take-off occurs and how quickly that stage can be reached if enough money is infused into that local regional environment. 

 Sir John Overall will have a most interesting time in the next few months, or however long it might take, looking at projects put to him and instigating other projects himself. In each case the variables that I have discussed - the size and resources of the region and the intention for the region - will concern anyone taking a proper economic look and planning accordingly. One has to know whether in remote areas an industry can be established that is not market oriented. Honourable members will have perceived in recent years the strong trend towards market orientation of newly establishing industries. Sometimes the cost factor of the movement of goods is more important than the cost factor of the movement of raw materials. Instead of being raw material oriented, industries have become established nearer the market source. It is easy for all of us in this Parliament and for members of State parliaments to say that we will build a magnificent concept of a new city, that we will develop a new region, that we will start where there are few people - perhaps 10,000 - and try by capital infusion to turn the area into the sort of environment where people will be most fulfilled and happy in the years to come. That is the easy part. 
The hard part is to know where to find jobs for people particularly during the development stages. An example of this is Elizabeth near Adelaide. I was a member of the South Australian Parliament before I came to this Parliament and I remember the argument that raged in South Australia. People said that Playford built Elizabeth too close to Adelaide, that this was not decentralisation, that it could be urban development but it was far too close. It might have been too close for the purists who felt it should have been built on the other side of the hills near Murray Bridge, but it was far enough away for the people who bought houses in the area and who had to travel immense distances to their jobs, even though it was just outside the perimeter of the city of Adelaide. If it had not been for the Greater Port of Adelaide Development Plan at the time, which envisaged reclaiming land for factory purposes which would be fairly close across country to the new satellite town of Elizabeth, people could not have gone to that .-.iea in its early stages, bought land, built houses and gardens and bred their children there because they would have been too far from job opportunities. 
The big problem the Government faces and which governments throughout the world face in interior development is purely a matter of whether those matters can be correlated. People cannot just go and live in a house. There is a lot more to do with the internal structure of these projects than is apparent initially. I think that in the years to come the Department of the Interior, acting with the wealth of experience of  Sir John  Overall who has gained a magnificent reputation for his planning of Canberra, will have to look very closely at many factors included in this type of regional development. I suggest that it must decide what to do about uneconomic industries. There is no doubt that, in the centres of some cities in Australia today, due to altered cost factors and altered distances to markets, industries have become uneconomic. In those areas governments should encourage the reestablishment of those industries. The footloose industries might be used for regional development in the more outlying areas. I use that classic description to refer to industries making such things as ball bearings, cameras and goods with a low cost factor to move but of a high value. They could be established in areas remote from the markets they would aim to supply. 
These are just one or two points that must concern all thinking Australians as we aim lo develop newer societies in newer regions. 1 am quite sure that great cooperation is needed. It is no good this Parliament talking about it if the State governments do not agree. There is no use the Slate governments agreeing to it unless local governments in most areas are also encouraged perhaps to bend some of their present laws relating to the establishment of industries so as to make housing a cheap, realistic and attractive proposition. I finish by saying again that I believe that we are facing most exciting times in the future in these regional projects. I hope that the Government and the people generally will give great co-operation to the idea. 
Tonight I want to refer to a matter that is of importance to grape growers in my electorate. It concerns the problem of applying for sales tax exemption on the purchase of hydraulic hoists. My inquiries have elicited the information that this type of hoist is not necessarily primarily used for the carting of grapes although it would be said to be used to a high degree by primary industries. I wrote to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in South Australia referring him to paragraph 13 (1) of the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act which states: 
Goods must be of a kind used extensively or primarily and principally in the industry. 
I pointed out that it was fair to say that these hoists would be used extensively, if not primarily or principally, in the wine industry and would be used more if this exemption were granted, as most wineries were rapidly changing over to bulk handling of grapes. In most cases the most efficient method of depositing grapes is by tip truck. The hoist I have mentioned is an important ingredient of that particular conveyance. 
Although it is possible to concede a good deal of merit in that aspect of the matter, it is section 112 of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act, which deals with exemptions and classifications relating to the bulk carting of grain, that really demonstrates the anomaly of the position. Section 112 states in general language that a great deal of the portions of a truck are exempt for the purpose of bulk carting, excepting the cabin and, of course, bulk machinery that goes with the actual cartage of grain. The anomaly which seems to me to exist is that far less bulk machinery is required to cart grapes in that more modern fashion; the hydraulic hoist in all fairness should be exempt. I suggested therefore, as I wrote to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation, that it would be a commonsense decision, 'if you exercise what discretion is allowed to you under the Act, to include this type of hoist as a sales tax exemption under the Act*. 
The next move that I wish to report in relation to this matter is to be found at page 3540 of Hansard of 24th November 1971 which records that, on that day, I presented a petition from many grape growers of that area on the lines that I have just mentioned. Subsequently, I wrote to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  asking him to review the written portion of the petition to which I will not refer at present. I will get at the wording of the petition in an indirect way by reading from a letter I received from the Treasurer dated 28th February 1972. The Treasurer stated: 
I refer to your representations of 3 1st December 1971 concerning what was thought to be an anomaly in the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act which exempts cereal growers from sales tax on the purchase of machinery and plant for use in the bulk handling of grain, but does not extend the same concession to vignerons who use machinery in a similar role with respect to grapes. . . . 
The Commissioner of Taxation, whom I consulted on this matter, informs me that under provisions in the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act, exemption applies to a wide range of goods used in agricultural industry including the grape growing industry. However, there is no provision that would apply to items such as telescopic or underbody hoists, truck bodies and such like for use in the transport of grapes in bulk. Sales tax exemption item 112 exempts machinery and plant for the bulk handling of grain. When originally introduced in 1933, the exemption was limited to machinery and plant for the bulk handling of wheat. It provided an incentive to wheat growers to change over to the cheaper and more efficient bulk handling methods. It is unlikely that there would, at that time, have been any other primary products handled in bulk. 
In later years bulk handling methods spread to commodities such as barley, rice and maize and, in 1954, item 112 was amended to its present form to provide exemption for machinery and plant for the bulk handling of grain as an overall category. The main classes of goods that would have been exempted for grain growers are underbody hoists and special grain bodies for trucks where the hoists and bodies are to be used primarily for bulk grain transport. 
A further amendment of the sales tax law would be required to exempt equipment for the use in the bulk handling of grapes. . . . 
That really is the end of the case which I wish to make out for my grape growers. Facilities exist for the granting of exemptions for plant primarily or principally used for those purposes under the section that I have just mentioned in the Sales Tax (Exemption and Classifications) Act. No such exemptions apply to or has any encouragement been given to the movement to the bulk handling of grapes to improve the efficiency of that industry. I have made the point through reading that reply from the Treasurer that back in 1933 these provisions were introduced for the types of grains I have mentioned to encourage this trend. I find that this is an anomaly that reacts against my constituents. 1 ask that the next time the Government reviews the Sales Tax (Exemption and Classifications) Act, in any shape or form, proper provision be made for the equating of the position as it applies to vignerons, as with other branches of primary industry. 
I direct a question to the Minister for External Territories and preface it by saying that I noticed the latest figures he has given the House on the shortage of food in certain areas of Papua New Guinea. Will he take note of the fact that there exists in the canned fruit industry a surplus of canned fruit? Will he agree that it would be a good idea to consult the Minister for Primary Industry on the possible use of food of that type as part of the dietary make-up of any shipment of food to these unfortunate areas? 
I address my question to the Minister for Education and Science. Has he noticed the latest evidence to the effect that the capacity of school children fully to utilise library facilities in secondary schools is related to their learning pattern in libraries in primary schools? If he has noticed' this latest evidence to come to hand on this problem, can he indicate to the House that he will take some concrete interest in this with a view to remedying this minor deficiency in the highly successful education programme initiated by this Government. 
I would like to support, in a somewhat qualified fashion, the 2 Bills being debated together this afternoon. My first remarks apply particularly to the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill. This is the second year in which the apple and pear stabilisation plan is to operate. At the end of last year, following the first season in which the stabilisation scheme operated, payments of about $2.6ra were made to the industry under the scheme. The scheme has been well accepted by the industry in South Australia and, in spite of the greater difficulties being experienced in Tasmania, I guess that there has also been a genuine acceptance of it in that State. This does not touch on the grave problems which the apple industry is currently facing in Tasmania. 
In South Australia the predominant thought is that, if a scheme can be formed to look after the high export component of 
Tasmanian production, then States like South Australia to a real extent can look after their own affairs. Over the years on many South Australian sales to the United Kingdom a small premium has been obtained. South Australian growers have been very proud of that result. By and large, as irrigation expands and alternative cropping becomes more a thing of the past, to be replaced by uniform production, South Australian consumption for the rather small apple production of that State will make viability for the industry a probability. 
One problem that is always involved is how to deal with the immense export potential of the Tasmanian crop. The second point  1  wish to make is the great importance, in my view, of the study being carried out  under  the authority of the Australian Agricultural Council into such matters. It is to be hoped that the maximum resources available to the Council will be brought to bear on the problem, at both the home State level and the Federal level through the advice being given to the Minister for Primary Industry. It is unquestionably true of our primary industries that at this point our fruit industries are facing the bleakest season. Their future may also be bleak, but this depends largely on the reconstruction, re-phasing and rationalisation of the industries which can be effected by the Federal and State governments. 
The third point I would like to touch on is the introduction of the tree pull compensation scheme for the various sections of the fruit industry. I will not go over the ground already covered by other honourable members. When the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  cited some figures on canned fruit consumption he said that he thought they were a little out of date. In fact they were very far wide of the mark. I have figures of canned fruit consumption dating from 1970-71. They show that the apparent per capita consumption of canned fruits in Australia is not  4  lb, as the honourable member said, but 19.9 lb. That is the apparent per capita annual consumption of canned fruits. The honourable member said that the annual per capita annual consumption of canned peaches was 3 lb; my figures show it to be 3.3 lb. For apricots it is 3.4 lb, for pears  1.7  lb - which might be wrong - and others 12 lb, a figure which would include the consumption of pineapples. The total annual per capita consumption of canned fruits is therefore almost 20 lb. At this point I wish to remind honourable members, and particularly the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  of a plank in the Labor Party's platform. It is one with which I do not unduly quarrel. Paragraph 13 of the section dealing with Labor's rural policy states: 
Appropriate measures to adjust the levels of farm production in balance with realistic domestic and overseas market demands, in order to provide satisfactory prices to farmers and consumers, wilh the aim of establishing industry on an economic self supporting basis within a definable period. 
It could be termed the Hayden-Hurford amendment to policy that was approved at a prominent Executive meeting in Tasmania some little time ago. It is time that the farming community of Australia realised that the Labor Party Executive decided that there should be no more payouts to primary industries for other than specific purposes and for other than a very short period of time. 
The honourable member will get his turn to speak. I am only half way through my argument. If I continue even the honourable member for Sturt might get a glimmer of the point I am trying to make. It is unquestionable that at present the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  is travelling the length and breadth of the land - 1 do not like being rude to such a nice member o; the Parliament - saying that the Government's restrictive policies are costing the farmers money. I remind him that his own Party's policy states that the Labor Party should attempt to contain production to meet anticipated demands. It is spelt out quite clearly and it is of no earthly use for the honourable member for Riverina to shake his little head. I have stated his Party's policy. We all know that the honourable member for Riverina does not agree with his own Party's policy. I acknowledge his right to express his disagreement. I also remind honourable members of what the honourable member for Dawson had to say when his Party's Executive decided to lay down the policy I have quoted. He said that the trouble is that there is nobody on the Labor Executive with any knowledge of primary industries. I would go a step further and say that there is nobody on the Labor Party side with any knowledge of primary industries. That would be true. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  is wagging his finger at me. I ask him when he last farmed or knew anything practical about these matters. That applies also to the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson. One honourable member opposite has had a nodding acquaintance with farming and some of its intricacies and he is about 40 years out of date. I refer to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who worked a farm a long time ago. 
Let us be quite clear about this matter. The Labor Party's platform is quite clearly spelt out. It was altered by an Executive meeting. I support the comments of the honourable member for Denison. For heaven's sake, just prior to the elections the Australian electorate must watch out for this business of talking with two voices. 
Everybody knows that I got 50 per cent off the wine excise. That is fair enough, but it has nothing to do with the actions of people who are going around the countryside saying one thing in one electorate and a completely different thing in another electorate. It has been going on for long enough. I am very fond of the honourable member for Riverina, but he really ought to stop to study his own conscience and take into account what his Party would be able to do, acting within its own platform, if and when by any chance it took over the reins of government. I am quite sincere and definite about what I am saying. It is not fair for the rural community in Australia to have to listen to 3 or 4 things at the same time. This is insincere and is not a very good method of building faith and trust in the farming community. The primary producers who have to listen to people like the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson, hope that they can show some leadership. This is a very serious matter for these people who feel that they must look at alternative methods of treatment of the industries that are at present under heavy fire. I do not wish to harp on this political point other than to say, in passing, that I am not fond of hearing these alternative views put forward. 
Will the honourable member be quiet for a minute? I now turn to the problems, as I see them, of the tree pull scheme. They involve both the farm sector and the canning sector. In the farm sector the Government has tackled this very difficult situation in a way of which I do not completely approve. I do not think it has yet come to the core of the problem. I hope I will be excused for saying that. I am on record as having said that I would rather have seen the guidelines of the tree pull scheme widened considerably. It might have been the cheapest way out. I do not want to be personal on this occasion, but nobody, unless he had his head in the sand, could deny that a position of oversupply cannot be cured by pouring fresh government funds into that area. It is most difficult to do that. Anyone should be able to understand the difficulty the Government is in. If you have too much canned fruit or too much dried fruit and you pour government funds into that area, there will be a certain amount of inconsistency in that programme. The Government is over such a barrel at present. 
One could say a lot of things that might put the proposition in a different context. Not the least of these would be that funds could well be found for a variety of constructive purposes, contrary to the simple proposition I have just put. One I have mentioned already is an enlarged tree pull scheme to try to get more people out of the industry and less of the raw material produced. I do not know whether some canneries would go out of business but at any rate that matter would rest at cannery level. Perhaps we could have some form of funding direct to the grower. It is interesting to look at the efforts of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee over the years and to realise that it has put canneries in quite a difficult situation whilst insisting that a pre-condition of the sugar rebate is that additional funds must be found for the primary producers. This has taken place, sometimes with great objection from the canneries. One can understand the difficulties of the canneries in this matter because they have seen their margins shrinking. So the Government could perhaps fund directly into the primary producer section. 
It could fund directly into the cannery section. We have seen an example of this in the last session of Parliament in relation to certain selected canneries. The Government could be looking at stabilisation schemes. I think some form of statutory control, laying down conditions for some sectors of the industry that have not always acted in the best interests of the industry as a whole, represents the best method of thinking. I mention to the Minister for Primary Industry, who is sitting at the table, that many people from my electorate and no doubt people from other electorates who have recently been in Melbourne and in other cities in consultation as an advisory council to the canned fruit industry have spent all day solidly rationalising and discussing how best to get an acceptable stabilisation scheme. Their tempers are not very good at this moment because they spend all day there and are then informed, perhaps by some civil servant, that their recommendations cannot be accepted. They feel that this is a cost against their industry and a waste of their own time as important executives of that industry. 
All these are possibilities. I do not know which is the best way to re-think the matter but I believe that something must be done. Personally, I have no particular horror about the future of the industry. If one looks at the statistics for my State, which is primarily a peach growing State and not a pear producing area, one will see that there could well be a shortage of peaches for canning within 4, 5 or 6 years. In that case nobody would lightly say that the industry should go to the wall. Let me go a stage further and mention an anomaly, lt has been said in this House that we must have regional development. But what happens if places like Shepparton, Renmark or Berri and several other areas with which 1 am not so conversant, are surrounded by industries that cannot meet modern circumstances and remain viable? Do we let those towns, some of which are very beau tiful and modern, go by the board while we build a regional centre next door? This would be inconsistent. Surely we must begin to think in a more general fashion and not think solely from the point of view of the industry. This matter must be incorporated in the overall care of governments. I am sorry if the honourable member for Riverina was about to say that. I think it is a perfectly logical way of thinking at this time. 
I think it was the honourable member for Riverina who said in this debate that the means test for the tree pull scheme means that nobody can apply for the loan that may become a grant, according to conditions, unless he is broke. Nobody who is broke wants the fund. Anybody who does want the fund is not broke. This might seem to be going round in circles but I think that the honourable member has been a little over-critical of the means test. The means test, as it applies to the scheme, is a reasonably generous means test. Through lack of time I will not go into it in detail. It is more generous than most means tests that would have applied. I now go back to the point I made earlier when I said that the scope of the guidelines of this scheme could well be widened. 
No, I have not seen it but I have a pretty good idea what it is. I have no doubt that the honourable member for Dawson has also, although he expresses his entire ignorance. 
The honourable member for Sturt is capable of asking a question as well as shouting and screaming. Even Lord Sutch has been known to ask a question and to do other than scream. But let us leave that matter. I repeat that there are very grave problems involved in these fruit industries. I am not completely happy with the Government's attitude at this point of time and I would like to see much more thought given in the future to a proper stabilisation scheme for these industries. I hark back to the fact that a lot of these towns are the best decentralised towns in the area and need some special care and help if the Government is not to be totally inconsistent. I have no intention of supporting the Labor Party's amendment. I regard its whole approach as being quite inconsistent and out of touch with reality. I do not altogether blame Labor's spokesmen because I have read what they have had to say about their own Executive. 
I should like to deal with 2 points tonight. The first, with which I will deal very briefly refers to the problem, which I think exists in the electorates of many honourable members, involving the provincial Press and the Postmaster-General's Department in relation to bulk charges for posting. I think the subject probably has been well and truly ventilated by many honourable members in the past, and I have no intention of going over old ground. But working, if I might say so, backwards through the problem that evolves, I refer to what I regard as a most excellent and reasonable case - perhaps the Government might think the only reasonable case, I do not know - made out by the Provincial Press Association, lt refers in my State to the need to make a little inset on the bottom of every bulk posting advertisement saying what newspaper has printed and is legally responsible for the particular advertisement which appears in that provincial newspaper. 
I think one can advance a philosophical argument - which I do not intend to do tonight - as to the role of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I do not know whether honourable members, on the one hand, think that the Department should be purely a public utility or, on the other hand, that it should be looked on as a business enterprise. If it should be looked on as a business enterprise, do honourable members think that this business enterprise thing should be qualified? In other words, the philosophical argument - and I will not go into it any more fully than that - is purely a matter of how far such a public utility should compete with such items and such articles as those handled by the provincial Press. I take the view that the role of the Postmaster-General's Department in these matters should be to ensure as viable a proposition in the interests of the paying public as is possible. By the same token, I do not think that it should intrude any more than it has to across such traditional mass media items as provincial newspapers. In other words, I think the Government has to look very carefully to see within what room it allows these traditional provincial newspapers to operate. 
The proposition that I wish to raise tonight is that the laws, as they affect provincial newspapers, state that at the bottom of every double full page spread advertisement for a chain store operating in many country towns there should be spelt out, for instance: 'issued through the Southern Argus' or 'the Northern Times' or 'the Southern Rock' or whatever it might be. It has been put to me - and I think with a great deal of reasonable argument to back up the claim - that if the Government or the Postmaster-General's Department should allow within, say, the State of Tasmania or the State of South 
Australia, 'authorised by the South Australian Provincial Press Association', it would save the cost of distribution by the provincial Press in a sensible fashion. There would be an immediate economising right across the scale, because you cannot hold a run for a little country newspaper with a distribution of 300 or 400 or 2,000 or 3,000 newspapers. But if this were allowed - and I regard it as a proper and very reasonable request - I think it would be some small way in which we could help what I might refer to as the struggling country Press in some areas and enable it to compete, I think properly, with the enormousness of the Postmaster-General's Department in terms of its household deliveries. I am not against household deliveries, but I think that we should have a look, on proper business grounds, at a suggestion such as this which has been put forward in good faith. 
The second point 1 wish to raise refers to the provision of an establishment for country telephone subscribers. I think it is fair to say that during 1970 the Government re-examined its entire policy relating to the provision of an establishment for subscriber telephone services based on the experience of the expansion of the automatic system in country districts and on the higher standards of telephone line construction necessary because of this establishment. The Government, in its review, aimed to evolve a policy which telephone applicants could readily understand and accept as being fair, which eliminated as much as possible the effect of the location of the exchange as it affected the cost of lines to individual applicants, thus ensuring that the Post Office had control over the orderly and economic development of the entire telephone network concerned. As a result the Post Office now wholly constructs and maintains all new telephone lines from the appropriate exchange to each applicant's premises. Of course, this includes the erection of lines on private property, which is the project I personally have in view. 
The Post Office bears more of the cost of the line plant than it has been responsible for in the past. It now meets the cost of line plant up to a radial distance of 15 miles from the appropriate exchange - and honourable members would be well aware of that - irrespective of the route distance involved. In the case of applicants located more than IS miles radially from the exchange, the Post Office bears the cost up to the IS miles radial point. But the applicants now are only required to pay unconditionally a once-only charge for the Hue beyond the 15-mile radius at a standard rate of $40 per radial quarter mile. This charge is determined on the length of line beyond the radial distance from the exchange to the applicant's premises less the 15 miles provided free. In accepting full responsibility for the cost of maintaining the lines extending beyond the 15 miles radius the Post Office regards such lines as its property as is the case with lines provided solely at Post Office expense up to that 15-mile radius. 
The revised policy means that practically all subscriber exchange services in country districts will now be provided wholly at departmental expense. I think this is worthy of note for those of us with country electorates. Few cases only will occur where contributions to line costs will be required from applicants. The revised conditions also cover the upgrading and reconstruction of private sections of existing subscribers' exchange lines as opportunity permits, particularly during conversion of these lines to take automatic working. Of necessity this work will need to be undertaken progressively over a period of years and obviously it will depend upon the resources, physical and financial, available. 
In the minute or two remaining to me I should like to comment on the capacity of the Department to enter into the new field of technology to help overcome the considerable backlag of applications for telephones in these areas. The backlag results from the policy adopted by the Government 2 years ago. Honourable members will be aware that immediately there was a flood of applicants to take advantage of this new and good offer by the Government. Of course, quite apart from the financial difficulty of providing resources, physical difficulties were immense. Consequently a backlag of some considerable proportions ensued. I congratulate the Department for getting into the field of radio telephones. I gather that they still have bugs, if that is the right word. Furthermore, they are still expensive to establish and maintain, but I congratulate the Post Office for taking advantage of new technology and using this new resource of radio telephone in country areas in order to overcome the backlag which occurred as a result of the need established by past Government policy which was of such great benefit and encouragement to those who live out of touch wilh normal facilities in outback areas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry noticed reports of improved sales figures in the wine industry, particularly when consumption per head figures are studied? Is he aware, however, that this flow-on has not reached some sections of the industry such as those handling bulk wines? Can he suggest any method by which these sections of the industry can be helped to become economic - a matter commented on in the Grant report? 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. When the sales pattern of an industry such as the wine industry is good and improving, but some sections are lagging, would he say that such an intrastate situation is the constitutional problem of the State Government concerned? When States have an incapacity to help financially, does provision exist for Federal financial help? 
 I also oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  In so doing might I briefly also offer my congratulations to that venerable fatherly figure who is sitting at the table at the moment and hope that he succeeds in displaying virility, if possible, and energy, if even more possible, in his attitude to the leadership of this House. I doubt whether I can use many more adjectives,  Mr Speaker,  without incurring your wrath. I take this chance to point out that we have heard so far today not only from the Leader of the House but from the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who, if I might make a synopsis of his speech, said that he was against the wastage of time in the House. We will look forward, if a division occurs, to seeing him across with us. That would be the only reason for which 1 would personally welcome him on this side. 
We have heard also from the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who, in one of his more pedantic efforts, really hinges his arguments on 2 concepts. The first is the distance from the temporary suite, if that is the right word, of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to this chamber. In developing his argument he suggested, amongst other things, that the distance from the new Prime Ministerial suite - temporary - for the use of - to this chamber is in excess of 100 yards. I would have thought that 100 yards would have put him fair and square in the nearest parkland. But this is a matter of judgment and I do not have much faith in the judgment of the honourable member for Corio. 
The second basis on which he hinges his argument is the problem of a Prime Minister who wishes, and is so keen, he said, to attend a division. 
I apologise. The Leader of the House mentioned the Prime Minister's undeniable right to attend a division in this House if he sees fit. The key surely to this is the fact that, as the Leader of the House suggests, the Prime Minister is keen to attend divisions - I think that we can safely leave out quorums from this line of reasoning. I think it is quite fair to say, if one looks at the length of the legs of some honourable members in this chamber, that if anyone has a tremendous advantage in this respect and in fact does not seem at all top heavy that person is the Prime Minister. If those, his lengthy encumbrances, cannot get him the short distance between the Prime Minister's suite and this chamber if he is keen to attend a division, there is something wrong with my logic. 
Of course the whole reason for the moving of this motion is that the Government is scared stiff of the factionalism in its ranks. You do not need to be a Whip to have discerned this in the past. There is a faction of members in the Australian Labor Party who are not ke.en about attending the House when the bells are rung and when this Government was in opposition it had trouble with this faction. It is going to have trouble with this faction again. I do not think an extra minute for the ringing of the bells will saVe this Government. I think those honourable members will need about an extra quarter of an hour to get a lot less distance from the Prime Minister's ministerial suite to this House. That is the. issue and that is why the Government is today trying to delude us that there is logic in this motion, lt is not game enough to face the fact that it does not have a lot going for it in regard to holding the House over the next year or two. 
A lot more could be said today on this matter including the fact that anyone who has sat in this House consistently over the last 3 years could not have been impressed with the tongue in cheek attitude, adopted by the then opposition over that period. We heard sanctimonious speeches made almost nauseatingly with a hand over the heart and tongue in cheek which suggested that we did not give the then opposition a fair go. But the time of testing is at hand and I have not the slightest doubt after today's performance that in a serious debate the Government would not allow an opportunity for previous Ministers for Defence, previous Prime Ministers or interested back benchers to take part in it. The Government has scuttled on to the defensive. This motion is purely another move in the same direction. I do not think it takes a great deal to convince anybody listening to this debate that the grounds on which this motion has been brought forward today are pretty shallow and pretty cheap. To conclude my remarks in far more good humour than perhaps I feel, .1 say to that venerable, ancient and pleasant figure, that veritable father of Dad's Army' that I deeply regret the fact that he has had to bring forward such a silly little motion in this his opening effort, if 1 may describe it that way, in this new Parliament. 
In justice to my friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  and to members of the Opposition I believe I should explain the reasoning of honourable members on this side of the House in relation to the difficulty that arose in the last 10 minutes of the Address-in-Reply debate. I say respectfully that measures were foisted on the Opposition this afternoon and there is now an inelastic situation which any government in its right senses would not allow to occur. Tonight we found ourselves in the position as the Opposition that had we put up a member of the Country Party to deliver his maiden speech, prepared as he thought to cover an allotted time of 20 minutes, he would have been denied by the Government the last couple of minutes required to finish that speech. This is the danger resulting from a doctrinaire approach of trying to tie everything in to the precise minute. It is quite a stupid approach, 
Honourable members who have been here over the last 3 years know that when an honourable member required an extra 5 minutes to finish a speech he was allowed that time. I regret that I have to say tonight that we would not have one of our colleagues deliver his speech in a partial fashion, particularly a maiden speech. We believe that if the Government wanted that practice adopted it should have put up one of its own speakers for the few minutes remaining. I think all honourable members will agree that we were more or less forced into the position we took in deference to those people wishing to be accorded the courtesy that normally had been handed out to honourable members in Opposition when we were in office. That is enough of that. That is the finish of the argument and I hope I have put our case reasonably objectively. 
I rose tonight to remind honourable members, if I might presume to do so, and particularly honourable members who have just been elected into the Parliament on the other side of the House, of their responsibilities as I see them to the Australian community. I do not pretend to be nearly as knowledgeable as some honourable members opposite are on this issue. Every now and again strikes occur. No honourable member on this side will say that all strikes are wrong, but many honourable members on this side, and I believe also many honourable members opposite, will object to some forms of political strikes. 
Every now and again a strike occurs that inconveniences very considerably big sections of an electorate or a State. That is the exact position that has arisen in South Australia. As many honourable members realise, South Australia is on the end of a vast river. The majority of its population in Adelaide and urban areas depends nowadays on River Murray water. Industries at Whyalla, Port Augusta and Port Pirie receive water directly pipelined great distances from the River Murray. Because South Australia is at the end of the great river system of the Murray there are occasions, particularly in times of drought, when it is affected by its water supply. The capacity of man has not yet enabled him to invent a proper method of controlling the quality of water as it affects urban users and industries downstream in South Australia. We have had - it will be no surprise to many, particularly those from, say, Gippsland - drought conditions in the southern half of Australia. To offset this problem in South Australia water supplies nearly always have to be chlorinated and chlorine, its by-products and its allied products are needed for a wide range of industrial uses. 
Over the last few days we have seen a strike which threatens the safety of people in South Australia. A rather rare disease has emerged in the Whyalla complex. It is amoebic meningitis. This is a lethal disease and it must be tackled by chemicals. These chemicals are vital to the people who live in such areas. Already a most frightful series of deaths has occurred under certain climatic conditions. The strike by employees of the Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd is creating problems. The reason I mention the strike tonight is that I am hopeful that members on the Government side may have some influence over the men who are striking and not only holding communities to ransom but, in some cases, threatening their lives because of the tack of substances such as chlorine, caustic soda, potash and various other products which are used in these areas to control hygiene. Some members opposite have been elected to this House from the trade union movement. Surely, having led unions, they have some responsibility to the people who elected them and should be able to exercise their influence over members of the unions if they were good enough to be selected to represent them in this national Parliament. 
Having made this plea, I refer now to a situation in my own electorate. No doubt a similar situation is affecting the district represented by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and other fruitgrowing areas. The canneries at Berri are in trouble. According to this morning's Adelaide 'Advertiser'  Mr Leo  Norton, the General Manager of the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd at Berri yesterday said that the ICI strike was holding up supplies of caustic soda, chlorine and ammonia gas which are vital components in the production of canned fruit. He said that if the strikers did not return to work soon it would stop the cannery and in that case thousands of tons of fruit would be lost. A perishable commodity is involved. It is not like wheat or motor vehicles. If the product perishes the depreciated income this year of hundreds of fruit producers in that area will be affected. As these canneries are cooperatives there will be the double effect that it will tend to make their annual operation extremely difficult and this will be serious for the producers. Another company in my electorate which purchases large quantities of fruit is the Jon Preserving Co-op Ltd. I believe that company has announced that it may have to put off 300 men. 
Honourable members undoubtedly will know more than I do about the ICI strike but it is my understanding that when a vote was taken the workmen agreed to return to work - indeed, they wanted to return to work. However one section of the work force - I will not mention the name of the individual concerned because I have not been able to check my information and I could be wrong - is controlled by one shop steward associated with a union allied with the other unions concerned with ICI employees and he pulled out those men. This has effectively stopped the production of chemicals vital not only to my fruit growers but to the top end of the Riverland area in South Australia and to the health of people who rely on chlorinated water supplies. This is a very serious matter and I hope that tonight I have not made wild statements about it or been unduly emotional or hysterical. All that I can do is beseech those who feel that they have some influence, whether it be the current Minister for Labour and National Service, whatever his portfolio is- 
The Minister for Labour, my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  and many others, such as the ex-mayor of Collingwood who I expect has some influence somewhere along the line. Even the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  probably has some influence with people who can help in this matter. It is not good enough in this day and age - I say this seriously, not in anger or with rancour - when a very big section of the population has not only its health but also its livelihood held in jeopardy by people who, putting it most generously, have not thought through the complete consequences of their action. I thank honourable members for listening to me put this case on behalf of my constituents. I am most concerned and I hope that those concerned will use their influence to get the ICI workers back to work immediately. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that since the infamous Harradine case in Tasmania he has not exactly been famous for  protecting his friends? Does he propose properly to support his deputy leader - another Tasmanian - or does he intend to continue to act as a deaf mute by consistently sitting on the fence? Can he yet feel the eyes of the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry boring into the small of his back? 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 will not take up 60 seconds of the time of the House. 1 just want to point out to the House and to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  that members of the armed services stationed at Butterworth near Penang have mentioned to me lately that they feel that their welfare could be improved considerably if on humanitarian grounds the Government were to organise periodic charter flights so that the relations of those people who are up there for a long term could visit the serving personnel in those areas. I will say no more than that. I merely sow the seed and hope that in due course the Minister might treat it as a question on notice and look into the matter. 
 I rise a little later in the evening than I would have wished to comment on the fact that the Government has gagged approximately 16 Opposition speakers in the debate on the AddressinReply. I do not suppose that anybody on this side of the House is naive enough to expect that we will receive anything like equal treatment from bully boys and bosses, who probably have been trained at a lot tougher school than we have, in relation to giving adequate chances for people to put their views. However, I think it is only proper to stand at this time and, if I can, objectively explain to the House the attitude that has been adopted by the Whip's office over the last 3 years when the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in government, and compare it with what has happened tonight. It may well be - I have not been able to check my facts in regard to hours of debate allowed - that the performance of the Government tonight or over the last fortnight has been adequate. 
I have it on the authority of my friend that even on an hourly basis the amounts of time allocated to members on both sides of the House do not bear comparison. 
But I wanted to make another point tonight and I will continue to make it. We do not want sympathy; we do not want anything other than our rights as  Her  Majesty's Opposition to express a point of view, and we intend to fight for these rights if we feel that we have been treated in an inadequate fashion. In the last 3 years, when we were in government, during the debates on either the Budget or the Address-in-Reply, I hope the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  will back me op in what I am about to say - someone from the Whip's office on the Government side has always gone across to the Opposition side and said - I hope my memory is accurate - 'What are the numbers of members you wish to debate the Budget or the Address-in-Reply?' As a rule this request went across half-way through the debate, not at the beginning and certainly not at the end. I hasten to admit that. If the answer was that the Opposition had 23 speakers or 26 speakers we on the Government side pruned our list according to the number requested by the Opposition. There is nothing in the rules of the House governing the number of speakers. All that is involved is the capacity for a Government and an Opposition to co-operate. I say with sorrow that such co-operation was not evident in the recent Address-in-Reply debate. Sixteen people on this side of the House were prevented from speaking in that debate. As people will hasten to remind us, this is the first time we have been in opposition for 23 years, and 1 think that members, including newcomers on both the Government side and on our side, deserve the maximum of consideration. I am talking about  Her  Majesty's Opposition, not about a rabble, not about 3 parties, but about  Her  Majesty's Opposition. Sixteen people were gagged by the Government in the Address-in-Reply debate. As luck would have it no member who wished to make his maiden speech was gagged. A lot of other fairly important people who have had a lot to do with the progress of Australia during the last 23 years have been gagged. I want to register my disappointment at the gagging of members in the Address-in-Reply debate. 
I can only repeat that we on this side of the House feel that we will not get from the Government treatment equal to the treatment that we as a Government gave to it in Opposition, but we hope to have the opportunity to fight for the percentage of the Australian people whom we represent, and if the. opportunity is given to us we will continue to do so. If the opportunity is not given we will have to fight in some other fashion. I presume that there are members on the opposite side who felt they had to do the same thing when they were in Opposition. I do not think it would be right if 1 did not take advantage of this occasion to point out what I sincerely believe to be an error of judgment by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  1 might just make a comment on the Leader of the House, because his performance in that office is becoming an important issue. I am sorry that he has left the chamber, but I was unable to get the call while he was present. More and more this person, who 1 think is respected on both sides of the House, is becoming known by the population of Australia for his comic and buffoon acts over the air. He is becoming known as someone who is not seriousi n his determination to produce good government for the people of Australia. The average person in the street - I hand this out as a pleasant warning at this stage - wonders who he is, why he has been elected to the position he holds and what his job is when he treats the Parliament of the nation in such a flippant fashion. I hope that in the future he will do his job properly without seeing a necessity to buffoon and try to ridicule and belittle people, some of whom are perhaps not as adequately equipped as he is to stand up for their rights but simply are people sincerely trying to do a job which they have been sent by the people who have elected them to this Parliament to do. 
I can tell you one thing. It does not hurt me one bit. The more often he gets back to wine excise the happier I will be because one thing that happened from it was that my vote on a single preferred result went up by 2 per cent. If what he said had any meat to it at all I can only invite him to keep trying me out on wine excise, because the result from my wine growers was perfectly superb and I shall everlastingly be grateful for their attitude. Before I sit down let me mention one matter, which, if I may become parochial for one minute, perturbed me as a South Australian very much. I sat and watched a television show not long ago in which 1 saw the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)- 
Yes, because the regional side of his functions has become defunct. To my absolute amazement as a South Australian I heard the interviewer ask him what studies had been carried out as a lead-up to the inauguration of Albury-Wodonga as a regional centre. To my complete horror the Minister said that this was completely a political decision. The interviewer, quick smart, said: 
Where are the feasibility studies?' I can remember the former Opposition asking the same question over the years about a certain dam in Queensland. The Minister was asked: Where are the feasibility studies?' He said: But there are not any feasibility studies. I have told you that it was a political decision.' That may or may not be valid. It may or may not be a terrible damnation of the present Government, that they would chuck away and squander taxpayers money on something not thought out, despite the magnificent concept of regional development. What worried me so much as a South Australian was that we had thought that the previous Liberal -Country League Premier of South Australia had succeeded in negotiating certain water rights for South Australia. 
I did not mention his name. That is up to you. We thought that he had negotiated and obtained greater water rights for South Australia from the yield of the River Murray. We thought in South Australia that the Dartmouth Dam was to be the alternative to Chowilla Dam to give us an increased yield in water. I just ask the Government this question: If the decision to establish AlburyWodonga as a growth centre is a political decision, if no feasibility studies on the development are available and if no economists have given an opinion on this matter, who has had a look at the water yield? I also heard the same Minister on the same television program say that there would be no water problem in Albury-Wodonga, that Dartmouth Dam was being constructed for this purpose. People up and down the Murray below that area who heard that statement will be horrified, and that is being modest. I remind the Government that many honourable members will do what the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  has done in the past. They will ask where the feasibility studies are and where is the background information to show that the correct decision has been made. If they are told that this information is not available they will ask why the decision is being made and whether it is capricious and in the best interests of the nation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I will not detain the House for more than a couple of minutes. 1 just want to say that I and other honourable members on this side of the House are incensed at the treatment handed out by the Government over the 2 Bills that were on the notice paper today. The first was the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill. We agreed to remove the name of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  from the speakers' list in order to help the Government to complete the passage of that Bill earlier than would otherwise have been the case.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you can imagine the amazement of honourable members on this side of the House when an extra Government  speaker  was added to the list, namely the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James). 
To make these accusations at this stage is most unfair and incorrect. The situation was that- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister is aware that there is no point of order. I ask him to resume his seat. 
 I promise the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I will not pursue this point. My only purpose was to point out that my support for another Bill is undoubted, and I will make this quite clear when the House meets in due course to continue the debate on the second Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I must say that I am almost surprised at being permitted to rise at this stage. However, I suppose that even the most unholy of tangles sometimes untangles. I gather that after all I am not to be gagged in attempting, on behalf of my electorate, to debate this measure. Before proceeding to what I have to say on this Bill I should state that I do not believe that the Government quite realised last night that by not allowing the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and me to debate this issue in effect it was cutting out the voice from the Hunter Valley in New South Wales on the one hand and the Upper Murray in South Australia on the other. One winery in that area produces 10 per cent of the total wine produced in Australia and my electorate includes the entire Barossa Valley. I do not believe that the Government was quite aware of these facts when it gagged the debate on the second reading of the Bill last night. I must say that I am glad that the wisdom which enables me at this stage to say a few words on behalf of my electorate has prevailed. 
My first point is that I believe that not enough emphasis has been given in this debate so far to the major finding of Professor Grant in his report of April 1972 on his fact finding inquiry into matters relating to the Australian wine industry. I know full well from experience in my electorate of the importance of the problems created by vertical integration and by over planting. I know of all sorts of problems. But none of these problems alone is an important factor in the downturn in wine sales. The one important factor in this respect has been the increase in wine prices. I have never in any forum done other than support the concept that the increase in wine prices was responsible primarily for the downturn in wine sales. Of course, this is precisely the situation that the industry ran into at the time of the introduction of the wine excise a little over 3 years ago. 
I wish to quote summary of findings, No. 3, in Professor Grant's report. It states: 
The rate of wine sales dropped sharply as a result of the price increases following the excise. 
I think that is quite a clear statement. It is by no means the only finding made by Professor Grant but all of his findings appear to me, as I read the report, to hinge around that one focal point. Some speakers have implied, particularly in another place, that the wine industry should not have sought increases in wholesale prices for wine. A quick look at the approximate cost movements in the industry leaves, one with the impression that the wine producers had very little option. For instance,, beer prices have risen 3 times since the application for wine excise, during which time the industry was literally not game to put up prices for fear that there would be an even greater downturn in sales. There are many examples that one can quote. I notice that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  quoted one. In my electorate the price of a bottle of white wine today, for instance, is only 5c more than it was  3i  years ago. This ignores the period when the full excise change applied. It purely compares the price before the imposition of wine excise with the price today. 
One would not say that the industry at this stage is overcharging for its product - not in my State at any rate. Within the 3 year period of which I have spoken the price of labour has risen by 37 per cent; the price of bottles has risen by $2m to the wine industry in that State. 
I am sorry, I was referring to the State of South Australia. The total wages bill has increased by $3.1m. These are facts which should make it mandatory for an industry, no matter how efficient, to try to restore the relativity it enjoyed to those factors prior to those increases. I am not here to say that everybody engaged in the wine industry, particularly the agents in a State other than mine, and retailers who sell wine and who sometimes do not reduce the price per bottle when excise is lowered, play the game. But I am saying that the people who produce wine, own their local co-operative factories and, indeed, the private wineries as well have entirely played the game in respect of price movements in the wine industry. 
I should like briefly to remind honourable members that the complaint people in my electorate and myself really had in respect of the wine excise was that it was an inequitable method of raising funds. The problem particularly concerned the big co-operatives in the 
Riverland region which is in my electorate in South Australia. I mentioned earlier the Berri winery which produces 10 per cent of Australia's wine. Very few people have heard of these co-operatives for the simple reason that they by and large are purveyors of bulk supplies of wine to better known name brands - and I must be very careful in my description - in the eastern States. This is the way the industry frequently operates. 
The excise undoubtedly discriminated against those people who were sellers of bulk wines. I do not want to grind that point any further because I wish to refer to another small matter in respect of which, if the government of the day is not very careful, the same error of discrimination against some sections of the industry could be perpetrated. I refer to the Tariff Board inquiry into the brandy industry. I have not the figures immediately before me but honourable members will be aware that over the last few years there has been a very great increase in the. volume of brandies imported into Australia. We do not even know whether the health certificates we get from some of the countries of origin can be taken on face value. One line of brandy which I have in mind has no guarantee that the contents of the bottle labelled brandy are even made from grapes. 
I think the industry is entitled to protection from some of these cheap imports of questionable origin. I mention this matter this afternoon only because rather alarming rumours are reaching the industry in South Australia from sources that I will not mention at this point. The rumours suggest that the Government feels that it has done quite enough by totally removing the wine excise from the industry and it is not interested in examining the Tariff Board report when it is brought down. If this were to be so - and I acknowledge that I am proposing a perfectly hypothetical problem - the Government would be guilty of most drastic uneven treatment of the industry because there are areas - and the Riverland area, which I have been requested to mention before, is one of them - in which distillation grapes form the majority of the plantings. These areas are peculiarly fitted for the production of brandy and they have already been hit by the large quantities of imported brandies of questionable origin coming into this country. I would like to sound that note of warning. Perhaps the Minister would make a note of it because I would appreciate an answer to it in due course, if there is an answer to the question. I would hate to see those very areas that I representcontrary to the plantings in the Hunter Valley and perhaps those in the Barossa Valley in this case - hit twice by an action that would be discriminatory. I think it is proper that I should draw the Government's attention to this point of view. 
My time in this debate has passed extremely rapidly. In conclusion I say that I am completely in favour of the Government's action in withdrawing this excise. I believe that it has been discriminatory to the bulk wineries. I hope that the brandy problem will be looked at. 
I do not think so, but I thank the Leader of the House very much for his courtesy. The wine industry is still effecting change. It is a brand new industry with all the pangs and difficulties of a changing industry. Some grapes are going out of fashion; they are not wanted. Wines are coming into fashion. This is not an industry that should be unduly hit until it has steadied itself in the proper way. I point out once again that this industry is unduly sensitive to differences in price and I hope that future governments will remember that fact. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  stated that I was incorrect when I argued against his statement that members on this side of the House said that wages were the only ingredient in increased prices. That is an absolute fabrication. It is a dishonest, gratuitous, fatuous and stupid remark by the honourable member. I would like him to withdraw that remark because it is unfair to the Opposition in this House and is a deliberate distortion of the facts. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Has the Minister for Labour noticed a statement by the head of his Department,  Mr Sharpe,  implying a clear criticism of the South Australian Government and South Australian Housing Trust for apparently making available homes to migrants in Whyalla 10 days after their arrival, in comparison with a 12 to 16-week waiting time for unemployed South Australians from, say, Adelaide? Is the Minister aware that the Housing Trust does not discriminate in waiting time from application onwards, and would he make this position plain to the House? Will he ask his departmental head to be more moderate in his criticism of perhaps the finest housing authority in Australia? 
Finally, would he care to tell the House why the head of his Department made this statement and not he himself as the Minister? 
I wish to take up a matter that is of some personal concern to me. It is a case in which a decision was made late in the life of the previous Government. However, I am still in some doubt whether the decisions taken at that time apply under the new Government and whether the present Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  intends to carry on along the line of thought suggested in this case by the previous Postmaster-General. 
The matter to which I refer goes back to June 1971 when I wrote to the then Postmaster-General arguing that the householder service for advertisements for industry was an unfair degree of competition against the provincial Press in that it deprived some provincial newspapers of their traditional role of gathering advertisements to help them to meet their budgets. In other words, this loss of revenue from advertising represented a big slice of their budget. The then PostmasterGeneral and his Department did not entirely agree with me. The cross fire of letters on this matter went on for something like  21/2  years. I have stuck to my argument with the aid of the editors of my local newspapers such as the 'Angaston Leader', the 'Pinnaroo Border Times', the 'Murray Pioneer', and the 'Murray Standard'.  Mr Hann  of the 'Loxton News', who is the  President  of the Provincial Press Association of South Australia wrote to me on 28th September 1972 and outlined what I thought was an extraordinary good case when he pointed out the absurdity of some of the degree of competition that applied to the provincial Press in its endeavours to compete with the householder service. In that letter he said: 
At present, postal regulations provide for any supplement to  a  registered newspaper to carry an imprint, being the name of the paper and the date e.g. 'Supplement to the Loxton News, September 21. 1972'. 
If a chain store wished to advertise in such a supplement throughout eight or nine provincial newspapers, no matter how small those newspapers were, the regulations at that time meant that quite ridiculous degrees of high cost endeavour was forced onto these small newspapers. My idea was - and this was also the thinking of  Mr Hann  - that perhaps a common insertion might run through or that one imprint might run through stating perhaps Supplements to South Australian country newspapers', or to the newspapers of whatever State one might be thinking. Once again we were knocked back. 
I see that I have written a note on the bottom of  Mr Hann's  letter saying that this request is a most reasonable one and in my view it should be agreed to. The note goes on to say that the present regulations work against efficiency and the alteration requested is most reasonable. I asked whether the then Postmaster-General would have a most careful look at this matter. He did. I have a letter from him saying that he intended to refer the matter to  Mr Lane,  the Director-General of the Australian Post Office. As late as 16th November 1972 I had a letter from  Mr Lane  which stated: 
We have made some decsions with regard to changes we may make in the future, and whilst for various reasons it may take some little time to implement them,  Sir Alan  asked me to write to you and let you know we now have in mind to 'change the rules' so that a supplement of certain dimensions and so on may be enclosed in several country newspapers without the need for over-printing each supplement. 
Again, on 24th November I received a letter from the then Postmaster-General spelling out the new principle to me in greater detail. He said that in future the inscription would read: PMG approved supplement No. ' - whatever the number was - and that numbers would be allocated on application to the Post Office. As far as I know at this point of time no decision has been made which affects country newspapers. I stand to be corrected on this. 
I informed the Postmaster-General that I intended to raise this matter tonight. My purpose in raising it is to try to do all I can to make sure that the new Government, in its wisdom, sees the matter in the same way as eventually the previous Government saw it so that provincial newspapers in so many areas will get some little chance to compete with household deliveries which so frequently have every advantage in terms of competition in country areas. That, as succinctly as I can, put the past history and. as far as I know the current position, sums up the case. 
In the few minutes remaining I should like to change the subject matter and refer to a matter that affects customs and excise. This is not the first occasion on which I have run into this problem, and I expect that the Department of Customs and Excise already is well aware of this sort of problem. In order that the supplier - in this case the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd - can get sales it must retain shelf space on a wide variety of lines. If not, the order tends to go to some other firm which perhaps has a supply of a commodity that is in a state of shortage. In this instance this year, unbelievably - perhaps it might not appear that way to Tasmanians - there was evidently a shortage of canned pie apple, whatever sort of apple that is, and without tins of canned pie apple it proved impossible for various lines of canned fruit to be sold by the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd. 
Working on fairly good advice, the company then set about ordering 3,000 cartons of A10 apples from New Zealand. The advice stated that because local supplies were almost non-existent, if the company ordered supplies from New Zealand and in the future applied for by-law admission, this would almost certainly be granted to the company. It will not be difficult for honourable members to guess what happened in the case I .have just mentioned. The firm, in good faith, ordered quite large quantities of this type of apple from New Zealand to occupy the space that it has habitually and traditionally reserved for its products on shop shelves. But on inquiry it found that by-law entry would not be allowed by the Department of Customs and Excise. In other words, the company said that suitably equivalent goods were not reasonably available in Australia and the Department of Customs and Excise said that they were reasonably available in Australia. 
In due course I should like the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  to have a look at this matter. He will see that the firm that I have mentioned has made a very good case to show that those supplies were not available at that point of time. Much of the apple that the company imported and, I would gather, tinned has already been sold, and sold well below the landed cost. In other words, it was a genuine attempt to try to meet the demands of the retail trade. As the Federal member representing this area 1 have been requested to try to have the by-law decision reversed on the ground, firstly, that suitably equivalent goods were not available in Australia at that time. The second ground was that no harm has been done to any Australian industry. Thirdly, the goods were sold at a loss to service government hospitals. So, the situation is that much of the reason for the importation of these pie- apples was in order to effect a service to a government department - in this case, State government hospitals. I hope that, in due course, the duty concerned can be returned to this firm, if by-law entry is granted. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister and it relates once again to the execution in Yugoslavia of Australian nationals. Has the Prime Minister any certain information to give this House and the nation in relation to the actual charges laid against these men, the time and manner of their trial, whether the accused were permitted legal representation in their defence, the type and circumstances of their custody, the nature of their interrogation before trial and why the Australian Government was not informed of this event? As far as I can tell, that is the position, unless the Prime Minister is not giving this House the information that I feel he would give if he espoused open government. Will the Prime Minister now give information on these matters that surely one would expect any nation with proper diplomatic representation abroad to have at its fingertips? 
I shall be even more brief than the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson).  1 congratulate him - 1 think it is well warranted - on having listened carefully to a sensible suggestion put forward from this side of the House. Long may this situation continue. There will be times when we reckon that we have a complete mortgage on wisdom and that the Government has none. 1 expect that we will get angry about that, but there are times, surely, when the resources of Opposition members can produce ideas worthy of consideration by any government. 
If the honourable member pushes me into that corner I will not admit it. When he interjected 1 was about to do so. 1 do not think that the democratic process is encouraged by any government of any colour if it refuses to consider properly ideas of merit that come from an Opposition. That is as far as I am prepared to go in view of the comment I received before I was ready for it. If it is the will of the Committee to proceed beyond clause 7 there are one or 2 other comments I am prepared to make, if that is in order. 
lt is nol my habit to speak on the third reading of a Bill and 1 do not intend to take more than 2 minutes of the time of the House now. In spite of the generosity of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  in relation to matters we have already referred to on this side of the House, there were one or 2 uncharitable things mentioned to which I should refer. I refer to where the Minister speculated - I think that was the word he used - about the previous Government's attitudes to measures that 1 can describe only as reform measures. One cannot blame the Minister for talking about reform measures but I do blame him for speculating why these measures were not introduced in the past. In answer to this insinuation I make 2 very brief points. 
Firstly, it is not wildly inaccurate to say that measures to be taken this year and measures which can be taken next year will owe their potential to the fact that previous governments have put the economy in such a state that these actions are possible, and to ignore that fact or to glide easily over it is not an honest attitude to take. I trust that in this nation there will always be progress and that as the economy strengthens from year to year further reform and other social service measures will be possible. I ask the Minister to take some cognisance of that fact in future because I regard it, quite frankly, as fair comment. 
The second point may not be so patently obvious or so patently fair. Any increase in the maximum loan, such as is provided in the Defence Service Homes Bill brought forward by the Minister, is appreciable and is acknoledged as such by the Opposition. But let us be quite clear and say that by the time this legislation is next examined or amended this increase will appear as one of a very paltry nature. Expenditure by this Government has been of such an order that the value of the increased loan after 2 years will be very little. I think we will find that in 3 years' time, if I am any judge of trends in the movement of the Australian dollar today, this increase will amount to nothing and its benefit will have been destroyed. So before people idly stand in this House and fire arrows at previous governments and imply that they had a poor record in these matters, they should consider at least these 2 matters which I believe to be valid considerations. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am glad to have the opportunity tonight to speak after my friend the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  Unlike the honourable member for Hunter, I do not know whether emotionalism is a cover up for lack of logic or what is wrong with the honourable member  for  Hunter tonight. All I know is that honourable members opposite cannot talk about confidence tricks to honourable members  on  this side of the House. ( have not been caught with my head in a vice. I have not been caught in protection rackets. 1 do not suggest as a Minister has suggested that Aborigines should be sterilised. I was with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  on a delegation to Cambodia. I was with him at the time he sent a telegram to the Government of the time saying that the people in Cambodia were being subjected to a vile invasion by the people of a non-ethnic group - a separate race. I was there when the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs sent that telegram and he was completely right in sending it. Honourable members opposite have no right to accuse us on this side of the House of double dealing because nearly every statement that the new Government has made in the last 6 months can be put in the same category. Where is the $500m for rural loans at 3 per cent about which the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  howled through the countryside trying to delude sincere people that this was the treatment they would get? Quite part from the honourable member for Hunter, in the case of almost every Minister we can find without too much search this sort of double talk. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is sitting in the House. We have heard about his Department threatening - as the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  has just said - not to deliver mail to Opposition senators for purely political reasons and nothing else. 
 He has threatened to acquire farms rather than to connect telephone services for primary producers. I do not know why they should be discriminated against but that is a debate for another time. I want to come back to the Vietnam proposition as briefly as 1 can. I have been to Vietnam as often as I could. A lot of the time it was paid for out of my own pocket but once it was paid for out of the Government's pocket when I went as a member of a delegation. I can tell the honourable member for Hunter that a lot of the remarks that he made tonight are just not true. I will demonstrate my point. 
 The honourable member has had his go. Now let me have a go. T remember going to Vietnam some time ago when the Press of Australia was full of the story that incendiary bombs were being flung around at random in the countryside and on towns and causing dreadful burns to women and children. I tracked this matter through 5 hospitals, not as a member of this Parliament but in the company of a Chinese man who was living in the area and who was able to gain access to these hospitals. In every case when 1 went into those hospitals the story was the same. The story was that there were drums of fuel lying around the place on new airfields. The people were suddenly faced at the village level with a new fuel and they were not trained to protect themselves. 
 The honourable member can laugh with his supercilious Australian Broadcasting Commission voice. Wherever I went I found the same situation. The honourable member for Boothby was with me at the time. Wherever I saw local doctors and whenever I went into the hospitals I found that the typical remarks with which the Press of Australia were damning us by implication - and with which they were certainly damning the Americans - were just a figment of their imagination. There was nothing in them. There were suggestions of torture and such things. The tortures in South Vietnam were at the standard of the South Vietnamese but they were a miserable imitation of the standard of torture applied by the people with whom honourable members opposite dined tonight. I think it is a shame and a shocking thing for honourable members to be prepared to sit in this place as members of this Parliament and to make contact and talk with people who have been the enemies of people from their electorates who have probably lost their lives or who have been injured. Such honourable members have absolutely no pride in their own country and they have no right to stand in this place as a member of this Parliament and refuse to stick up for the people who served their country. There is something lacking in members of Parliament who do not understand a liking of and a loyalty to their own nation. I do not begin to understand this. 
Let me come back to the business in Cambodia because I think this is one area in which this Parliament has been negligent. However, let us be honest enough to say that over the last 6 months no longer do we on this side represent the Government. The Cambodian people have been let down by the likes of honourable members opposite. If ever there was a clear historical case - even clearer than the North Vietnam issue - that there was an invasion it is the one which concerns the people of Cambodia. They are Khmers. They are peace loving. They are not used to having soldiers around. They are not used to firing guns. 
1 feel sorry for the. honourable member for Port Adelaide who is so lacking in a knowledge of the situation that obtains in Cambodia. 
On the contrary, I have been there at least half a dozen times times and 1 have not seen the honourable member there yet, but that is beside the point. The point at issue is whether a separate ethnic group - in this case the Khmer people - should be subjected to violent military attack by a group of people who are not of the same race. In this case in its original context there can b: absolutely no question that this country and this race were invaded. There can be no claim that it was a civil war in the early stages. What has this Parliament done? I am now condemning not only this Government but honourable members on this side, too. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and I sought on the same platform at the Salisbury Teachers' College in South Australia a resolution condemning naked aggression and hoping that the Government of the time would give some substantial help to enable this race of people to remain an ethnic group with their own ethos and using their own capacities in the area in which they have lived for centuries. That was done by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and myself. I believe it was put over television throughout the nation because it was a somewhat unique event. I suppose I must accept the blame as well as the Government. This country and this Parliament have done nothing to stick up for the Kmer people in Cambodia. I do not suggest that we have to send troops tomorrow, but I think that in the high places where the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  now treads and to which this Government now has access, the voice of Australia should be raised for a small nation. These people deserve their chance to exist as a race in Cambodia. 1 may further demonstrate that point by relating a touching circumstance when students and academics, as they term them - perhaps we would say trained technicians - of Cambodia who came from 5 adjuncts of universities if not 5 separate universities approched our delegation. We sat and talked with them for some hours. They were genuine, intelligent people. One might say that they were the better trained and better educated section of that community. They were significant of that small nation. They put to us their need for friends who would get up in high places throughout the world and put their point of view. We were accepted as genuine, sincere people who would help them. Maybe I and this side of Parliament have been too quiet about these people, but so has the entire Government of today. 
I find it beyond my comprehension that a government of Australia should be on friendly terms at every available opportunity with people who were the naked aggressors in Cambodia. There is an area of complete unfairness in this Parliament in regard to the people of Cambodia. I hope that in this session of the Parliament I will hear more than one honourable member rise to back the views I am putting forward tonight in relation to Cambodia. 
I am provoked by the entirely unfair and unwarranted attack by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  on people in the private sector of the nation. We all know the honourable member's view that there should not be a private sector. He wants everything brought under the public sector umbrella. He is for synthetic meat, bread and talk. As a doctor he has a capacity to put people to sleep, synthetically I expect. I think the whole theme of the honourable member's remarks this afternoon is most unfortunate. For many years honourable members who are now in Opposition have tried their hardest to make Australia one nation and to stop this tactic of trying to carve us up into separate groups and areas. It is not a fair tactic for the honourable member for Kingston once again to try to force a division between my party and the Country Party that sits on my left in Opposition, a message he propounds to the people in the electorate of Kingston. 
In my humble opinion it is about time that we began in this House to think of the national interest, and in so doing, of consumers generally. The honourable member for Kingston has tried to demonstrate that he represents the consumers. He does not.  His  colleague in the neighbouring electorate - he is not in the chamber at the moment - at question time this morning tried to promote artificial food manufacture and use in this country, unless 1 understood him incorrectly. 
We live wilh a free economy for the time being, but the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  this morning was promoting a firm that is not even Australian. All we of the Opposition ask is a fair crack of the whip on this business. The honourable member for Kingston entirely ducks the situation that the rural sector of Australia has an enormous debt around its neck. We are not getting any help - so far, at any rate - from the promise of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  of a loan of $500m at an interest rate of 3 per cent to he!p primary producers out of their difficulty. We have heard nothing further about it since he stumped the countryside, even in the land of the crow-eaters, saying the same sort of thing. All we get is a complete lack of sympathy for a sector of the community that needs help. 
If the honourable member for Kingston insists on going on with his antics, which are quite divisive in terms of the Australian economy, that is his business, but I am quite sure that honourable members on this side of the chamber will back me up when I say that we do not stand for trying to divide the community into groups. The sooner that people grow up and look at this nation as having incipient greatness and being a cohesive unit, the better off we all will be. I have sought to record my disgust at the antics of the honourable member for Kingston this afternoon. 
May I crave your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to make a personal explanation. 
I would like to point out that the Opposition has not made a flippant move and that there are honourable members on this side of the House who deprecate the attitude adopted today by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  It is no argument to say that in government the Liberal-Country Party coalition averaged so many hours and so many minutes of debate over a 15-year period. The last Bill that was introduced concerning the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was nowhere near as serious a matter as this one. The Opposition has every right to object to the fact that it has not b:en able to move the amendments to the Bil) that the people of Australia would expect it to move, let alone be able fully to debate the Bill. This has not been the fault of the Opposition. It has been the fault of the Government and the Leader of the House for wasting time early in the session and not bringing forward for debate Bills of importance. A Bill as important as the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill should properly be aired and debated. I do not think it is a fair crack of the whip for the Leader of the House to be frivolous this afternoon and to accuse the Opposition of being frivolous. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The time allowed for the debate has expired. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Wentworth's)  be agreed to. 
 Mr Speaker,  I am glad that I received the call. You will appreciate that I would not dream of getting up before I received it. Tonight I want to speak about a matter that impinges on civil aviation, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and foreign affairs. I have not informed the relevant Ministers about it but I do not think that necessarily prohibits me from saying what I think. Honourable members opposite will understand my problem in trying to let half the Government know before I speak on an adjournment debate. As you will appreciate,  Mr Speaker,  I might not have received the call at all. 
I wish to refer tonight to the rather quaint position in which the Government appears to have got itself. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has painted himself into a corner. It may or may not be the complete truth that agreements were reached some little time ago with the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea in relation to that country's internal airline. What is patently true now is that the rapidly emerging country of Papua New Guinea wants its own internal airline with the shares in the rough proportion of 52 per cent to be held by the Papua New Guinea Government, 24 per cent by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and 12 per cent each by Qantas Airways Limited and Trans-Australia Airlines. 
I wish to make the point very forcibly that for a long time Australia has been known favourably as a nation that has taken a proper, responsible attitude to an emerging country. We have encouraged Papua New Guinea to propound its own ideas and to think for itself. We have helped to train its public servants and its infrastructure. At present one might say there is a bit of hiatus. The Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  is saying to us how he wishes the capital structure of his own internal airways to be balanced. The Minister for Civil Aviation, who is a funny little man, pokes his nose rather irreverently into the situation and implies that unless Papua New Guinea gives up its ideas about the capital structure of its own internal airline, he will move to prohibit certain grants in aid to that rapidly emerging country. For as long as I have travelled around South East Asia and as long as I have had help from this Parliament to visit places both near and far, the name of Australia has stood high in the matter of foreign aid because we have never put conditions on aid - this was not the case in the story "The Ugly American' - to these sorts of developing countries. We have not done so to countries with which we have a very tenuous connection. Yet the Minister appears at this point of time- 
You have to protect your own Government; that is more to the point. 
The people's airline has been very negligent indeed in opening up Papua New Guinea, and that is obviously one of the reasons why the Chief Minister of that country wants the expertise and the knowledge of private enterprise to help to continue this motivation of his country's internal airline. With respect to the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  I do not think it matters very much whether we should look after the Government's airline in Australia. 
The Government's airline In Australia. Last year the people travelled on the other airline a little more than they did on the Government's airline, so let us not be deceived about what is the people's airline. The point I am trying to make, in spite of the interjections from the honourable member for Hunter, is quite clearly that no matter whether we should protect our own airline or not, we do not have the moral right to dictate how Papua New Guinea should set up its own airline. Over the years I sat almost exactly where the honourable member for Hunter is sitting now - he overlaps a bit. I think of the procrastination, the pompous attitudes and the self righteousness of Government members when they were in Opposition, attacking the previous Government's role in granting aid to developing countries over the years. They attacked right, left and centre. And all the time Australia was known throughout the world as the one nation that gave gifts of foreign aid and never loans. Take the United Kingdom, West Germany and many other European countries. Their foreign aid is no different from an international bank loan. In fact, if anything, it is worse, because they do not give a 3 year holiday before repayments start. 
All these years the attitude of the previous Government was held by those who thought about these things to be about the best form of foreign aid known in the world. No other country equated with it. We bent our own tariff laws - I made my maiden speech on this topic - to enable the simple manufactured goods of developing countries to come to this country, to give them some chance of building up foreign exchange. We enabled them to buy our surplus wool, our surplus Holdens or whatever we had to assist them as they struggled to develop their own economies. This is a very important matter and a very difficult one for the Government. The Minister has put the Government in a position in which for the first time ever Australia has not been on a pedestal in regard to foreign aid and in which Australia has interfered, not with just any old country around South East Asia, but with a country inextricably involved in its future relations with this nation. I maintain that that is an inexcusable attitude for the Minister for-Civil Aviation to take. 
We have read in the Press that the Prime Minister has now had to come to the rescue and try to patch up the  situation.  That much we have read in the Press. We have not read anything more. I have not read that anything can be negotiated between our Prime Minister and the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. The situation is serious. The Prime Minister has had to come to the rescue of Ministers with foot in mouth disease. The Minister for Civil Aviation is one more added to the list. We have heard about infamous senators from another place on more than one occasion. We cannot have too many more Ministers who are accident prone and who will destroy the good name built up year by year, slowly and steadily, by responsible governments of the past. I can only hope that the Prime Minister is able to negotiate properly and find a half way position. If there is not a half way position I for one will stand in this House and say that the Government of Papua New Guinea must now be given encouragement to work out its own salvation, and woe betide anyone who sets himself up as a pseudo imperialist on the one hand while denying the right of capital inflows from other nations on the other hand. Quite frankly, this is one of the most stupid situations in which this country could ever find itself. I hope that some of the things I have said tonight are wrong, because I am not partisan enough to think that we should be trying to take advantage of the situation. But it is the responsibility of an Opposition in this country to draw this matter to the notice of the Parliament. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Superannuation Board advise the former Treasurer, in its report of 17th February 1972 on the Ninth Quinquennial Investigation as at 30th June 1967 of the Superannuation Fund, thai the Actuary had calculated that a gross surplus of assets over liabilities of $14,779,000 existed as at 30th June 1967. 
Did the Board advise in paragraph 15 of the report that the Actuary had recommended thai the surplus be retained to facilitate the transfer of exist- ing pensioners and contributors to a new scheme he had recommended and to assist in meeting the costs of the new benefits. 
Did the Board indicate in paragraph 26 of the report that there were wide-spread criticisms of a number of features of the existing scheme and did they list these features. 
There is so much to talk about tonight as a result of the 3 speeches that I have heard that I do not know where to start. Perhaps I could start by pointing out to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that he has adopted a totally unfair attitude tonight. 
Are you going to stand and talk later? It was most unfair of the honourable member for Corio to imply, as he clearly implied, that any one on this side of the House stands for no tariff protection on imported goods. Let us explore this implication a little more because the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  started this argument tonight in relation to clothing and other Australian produced goods when he referred to the cost level of some countries - in this case, China - which could be competitors of Australian companies or the work force, depending on what happens. 1 think it is fair to say - I disagree, perhaps, a little with the honourable member for Mackellar on this point - that the price level set by countries such as China, nine times out of ten, bears no relation to costs. People who have been into communist shops throughout the world will know this is true. However, that is my statement; it is not the statement of the honourable member for Mackellar. I say that their prices bear no relation to their costs of production and, of course, their costs of production are minimal. Quite frankly, it is an idiocy for anyone to stand in this House and seriously say that we should compare the cost structures of Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan with . mainland China, lt is a stupid remark. I have not been- 
It has just been suggested. It is quite stupid for anyone to take that seriously as a statement of fact. I have not been to China; very few honourable members have. If nobody else will invite us perhaps we should accept the invitation of the honourable member for Corio fo visit China. But anybody who has read enough knows damn well that the returns from secondary industry in a place like China are nothing. Conditions would very nearly approximate my colleague's description of sweated labour. The labour in China is directed. No strikes are allowed. There is no vigour in or expansion of the industry. China's industry cannot be compared with those vital emerging economies based on entrepreneural tactics and free enterprise of Hong Kong, Singapore and, indeed, Taiwan, where the wage levels and conditions are advancing at a very good pace. Probably the best of the lot of them in rate of expansion and improvement is the very one that the honourable member for Corio picked out, namely, Taiwan. I have not been to Taiwan for 12 months but up to a little while ago its rate of expansion was much greater than that of the other nations that the honourable member mentioned. Of course, we need not comment at all about Japan. 
That is right; that is open government for you - crowd everybody out in case they are a source of embarrassment by virtue of being able to give useful information to a country. But that is another matter again. I should like to return to the point and try to probe the Government's intentions in the field of tariffs. T believe that the honourable member for Corio might well have known something tonight. He tried to imply and blame us for it - we are not the government any more - that there may be levels of tariffs that will be effectively lowered. If this is so, why is the Government not telling the workmen, whose jobs may be at stake? Is there a big secret? Is this open government? 
I should like to back up my statement by an opinion. It is a matter worthy of some note that such a well known, credited and vastly respected scientist as Professor Gruen has been attached on a part time level to the advisory staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I want to go on record here and now as saying that it is my belief that the current inflationary spiral will need some of this rather drastic treatment in time to come if the families and wage earners are to have their costs kept at a reasonable level. I do not know exactly where the honourable member for Mackellar intends to go next with his fascinating argument on where the International Labour Organisation stands on sweated labour and where we are going to stand as a Parliament in relation to any costs we can uncover, whether they be labour costs or any other costs in some of these nations. I just pick up where the honourable member for Mackellar and the honourable member for Corio left off by saying that I believe that tonight we may have uncovered something that could have some substance in it. We on this side of the House are proud of the fact that the last Budget, introduced by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  started to bite into the economy about the time of the election and at this stage, what the country needed was sensible economic management instead of over expenditure. 
Right, we well could do that. Obviously, the wages of other nations are related to this matter. The point that I really wish to make in relation to this entire matter is that it might well be that if the inflationary spiral hitting the producers and exporters of this country gets any further out of hand, we might well need in the interests of the nation more competition and less - if I might put it this way - of the umbrella of tariff under which so many demands can be made and so many strikes occur. Nobody would suggest more than I that workmen and management should get together and have discussions to try to develop what teamwork they can in relation to the future industrial requirements of this country. I am glad that this matter was referred to tonight because it might well prove to be a matter of some moment over the next few months. 
Before I sit down I should like briefly to mention the fact that we battled so hard and valiantly this morning to try to get a little extra time for a certain debate which, I suppose, 1 should not mention. 
It has been disposed of, has it? 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I was not going to mention details concerning the debate. I was going to voice my agreement with the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who complained most bitterly tonight that insufficient time was allowed for that debate. It was not for me in a free debate of that sort to make any suggestion as to how  Mr Speaker  gave the call to honourable members who wished to speak on the Bill. However, I think it is valid for me to point out that I believe all honourable members on this side of the House are glad that the honourable member for Hunter was so pointedly in favour of the fact that we had battled hard to get more time allotted for the debate. I have just been passed a note to say that the Defence Forces Homes Bill was passed in the Senate tonight. I hope that answers the query raised by the honourable member for Corio. 
Before I resume my seat I should like to make this point once again. Last night, the Leader of the House  (Mr .Daly)  challenged, Would we be game to sit on Friday?', or words to that effect. We reacted immediately to his challenge and conducted a canvass throughout the Opposition parties. When we agreed that we should sit on Friday, the Leader Of the House refused to accept it.. However, I think that I have said enough on that subject. I congratulate the honourable member for Hunter for coming to the same conclusion. 
House adjourned at 11 p.m. until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, 15th May 1973, or until such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the chair. 
 I also support the amendment before the Chair. I would like to get at the hub of the problem by demonstrating to the Committee the complete interest of certain sections of the non-capital city area in relation to the matters before the Committee in this Bill. I refer in particular on this occasion to those, for instance, who are downstream on the Murray River from the projected Albury-Wodonga complex. 1 do this to demonstrate to the Committee that the interests of the people of Berri, Barmera, Waikerie, Renmark, Mildura and other areas further downstream are inextricably involved in this form of regional development. 
I was seated in front of a television set and I heard the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  say that no feasibility studies were done on the project to establish Albury-Wodonga as a growth centre. I am not here, as the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  was, to say that work' has been done. I am just quoting the Minister's own words that no feasibility studies were done on the Albury-Wodonga project. The next question that the Minister was asked as 1 sat and looked at the giggle box was: 'If that is so, was the decision to build the regional complex at Albury-Wodonga purely a political decision?' To that the Minister replied: 'Yes'. I must say that this was not in accord with my idea or, I think, with the idea of the majority of the members on this side of the chamber. I do not believe that capricious, perhaps emotional decisions should be made which will involve millions of taxpayers funds and/ or loan funds. Surely, even now in this ripe age of expenditure this proposal should have some semblance of economic correctness before a decision is made. Honourable members on this side of the House say that people downstream from Albury-Wodonga have a very real say in this sort of complex regional establishment. The name of the Bill should not be the Cities Commission Bill. AH sorts of people are involved in this question. 
I would like to be a little more precise in relation to this matter. The people downstream from Albury-Wodonga are concerned with a problem which to my mind has not been tackled, let alone answered, to their satisfaction. If there is to be a city of 300,000 people at Albury-Wodonga - this is the upper limit that has been mentioned but it may prove to be hopelessly wrong - and a city of 200,000 people at Monarto as it is to be called now, in South Australia, there will be a very great call upon the waters flowing down the River Murray. Figures which I have worked out on the basis of the best scientific evidence I can get at this point of time suggest that by the turn of the century, if not before, Albury-Wodonga, having reached the ultimate size proposed and based on a water usage rate of 100 gallons a person a day, which is very rapidly becoming a most conservative judgment of water requirements, will require 10,950 million gallons a year while Monarto will have a requirement of 7,300 million gallons a year. With the advent of a new petro-chemical works at Port Pirie, another 100 million gallons will be required, and at Port Stanvac, with additions to the refinery, the requirement over the next 10 years will increase to 5,000 million gallons of water a year. 
The point of all these figures is quite clear. It is no earthly use looking at a river and saying: 'From its total flow we will take 15 per cent and that will leave us 85 per cent to play with'. If we worked in this way, for many years in a decade we would not have water running in the river. That is a factor that must always be allowed for. My fear in relation to the interests of people downstream from such a regional complex as Albury* Wodonga is that the demand on the river system will be too great to enable us to meet tie future requirements of the people in addition to providing a reasonable flow down that river. It is even worse when States, such as my own State of South Australia, have dependent on those waters capital cities like Adelaide with outer suburbs like Elizabeth, which in terms of design will not bow even to Canberra. Let us face it, States have achieved this sort of development without any real help from Commonwealth governments. However, leaving that aside, when States like South Australia have capital cities like Adelaide whose foundation, industry and water requirements to an increasing extent are dependent upon the flow of the Murray system, and if governments continually go up stream to build these projects, any town downstream near the coastline, such as Adelaide, will be subject to grave danger. If the Minister has consideration for arid areas of Australia or areas which have no catchment or any high rainfall zone surrounding them, he should not go upstream and build major cities because if he does so he will pollute out of existence everybody who lives downstream. 
I support very much the point made by the honourable member for Darting Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  that simple alterations to the title of the Bill involve more than words. The very existence of people downstream, their families, expansion, irrigation requirements and settlement - as in my own State, the very existence of the people of Adelaide - are dependent upon water going downstream in the River Murray in a non-polluted state. Wherever people settle and build cities, they pollute water. They also pollute in other ways and, on behalf of my friend the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  I inform honourable members that we will be moving an. amendment on this point later in the Committee stage. People pollute mainstreams of water, and I know of no action which has been taken by this Government or by the Government of South Australiawhether Albury-Wodonga is a political decision or not - to ensure that there is an agreement to make sure that all water utilised is purified before it goes downstream for other people to use. 
I admit that during the last State election, the Premier of South Australia was rustled up to come to Canberra to discuss this very point. He went back to South. Australia with a series of meaningless words but certainly no agreement. It costs real money to re-cycle water once it has been used by city and industrial complexes or even by irrigators. In passing, I should like to say that I do not have much time for my colleagues over the border in Victoria who, to my mind, issue far too many water licences in that area. This is another contributing factor to pollution of the main stream in South Australia in the area for which I am responsible. 
But I shall let that point go for the time being and in the minute that I have remaining to me I sum up by saying that I hope this House will take note of the fact that, in a low rainfall area with no catchment available next door, regional complexes should not be built upstream without assurances to the people who live downstream in towns and around irrigation systems or who are dependent on this water, as in the case of people living in a capital city, that proper precautions have been taken and that there has been an agreement between a disinterested State government and a Federal government which should be vitally concerned with the environment and the interests of the people downstream, to make sure that those waters reach those people in a pure state.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I have discussed these matters for reasons which may perhaps have looked to you to be rather ambulatory. I return to the point before the Chair. This amendment should be supported because the sort of people about whom I have been talking many of them city dwellers, all have a big interest in the action of this Government and in my opinion, the naming of the Commission and of this Bill are an important adjunct to their future interest and involvement. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I raise a point of order. We are in the Committee stage of the Bill. The Minister cannot move that the question be now put unless he is referring only to the specific clause under discussion. 

<graphic href="084131197305153_38_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305153_38_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305153_38_2_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the sub-clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Anthony's amendment) stand part of the question. 
As the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  is unwell with influenza and is in bed today I have pleasure in moving the amendments that he foreshadowed in his second reading speech and which, I believe, have been circulated to the House. I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 14 of the Principal Act is amended: 
by omitting sub-section (1) and substituting the following sub-section: "(1) There shall be a Cities Commission Advisory Committee to advise the Commission in connection with its duties and powers under this Act." 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the word "eleven" and substituting the word "thirteen".'. 
In foreshadowing this amendment the right honourable member for Higgins said that he believed that there should be on the Advisory Committee at least  2  persons who had a specialised and expert knowledge of preservation of the environment and conservation. He said further that the 1 1 members of the Advisory Committee have already been appointed and that it contains no such person, although one - a professor - is close to this general description. The right honourable member for Higgins wants the Committee to accept this amendment so that the Government in its wisdom will have the opportunity of appointing to the Advisory Committee 2 professional environmentalists or experts in conservation, a situation which he has said, and which I agree, is lacking under the present constitution of the Commission. 
I have no doubt at all that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  being such a renowned if amateurish enthusiast about matters of conservation and the environment will enthusiastically accept the amendment I have moved on behalf of the right honourable member for Higgins. There is no doubt about that in my mind. I look forward with keen anticipation to the support he will undoubtedly give to it. In fact, he may well second the amendment for all I know. Quite frankly any different behaviour on the part of someone who speaks so feelingly about environmental and conservation matters, as does the Minister, would be difficult to countenance. 
Only a few moments ago I sat down after giving, at the Committee stage of the debate on this Bill, a speech that should have been given in the second reading stage. I was able to do so due to the tolerance of the Chair. During that speech I emphasised the tremendous concern about this type of development that is felt by those who live in the towns and cities as well as the irrigation settlements further downstream. For example, the people of Adelaide are very dependent today on the supply of water from the River Murray to augment their future industrially, socially, horticultural^ and in every other way. I take on board the right honourable member for Higgins' suggestion and commend it as fiercely as I can to the chamber as being another measure that will give some assurance to the people living downstream from such development who want to make sure that water arriving for their use is in as good a state as possible. This is a conservation issue and a conservation matter. It is certainly of great importance environmentally to those people about whom 1 spoke earlier this afternoon who live downstream from the projected settlement of Albury-Wodonga. I will co-operate with the Government and confine my remarks to that. I strongly recommend to the Committee that it support this amendment, which was fore shadowed by the right honourable member for Higgins and which properly belongs to him. 
 I am pleased that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has indicated, as far as I can gather, that he will accept the amendment. This is excellent news and is just what I would have expected he would do in all consistency. It is what I would expect a sincere man to do. The Minister spoke of the river systems being interconnected. I presume that what he meant was that environmental factors were environmental factors and must be tackled in every way as a whole in that connection and not be regarded as separate matters. I think this is probably what the Minister meant. However I bring to his attention a point that I have mentioned earlier because it does not conform to the general explanation that he has so plausibly given to the Committee. That is, that if he has regard for areas downstream, capital cities in particular, he. will realise that they have environmental factors different from those in any of the other areas that he might have in mind. They are different from those in theHawkesbury River or the fast flowing Tweed River, for instance. I am speaking of an area in the lower reaches of the long, meandering flow of the River Murray and its entire system, the waters of which have been harnessed to a very real degree. In thanking the Minister for his courtesy, I wish to make sure that he understands the gravity of the problem which people not only in my electorate but also in Adelaide see in the establishment of large cities in the upper reaches of the Murray River system. 
Some 5 or 6 weeks ago on behalf of some Commonwealth civil servants in South Australia, the State from which I come, I placed on the notice paper a series of questions to the Government in relation to superannuation. The point I should like to make tonight is that this Bill deals partially with some of the principles that I put forward on behalf of those people. On the other hand, of course, there is a great deal in the submissions of those who represent the civil servants of Australia which this Bill does &gt;not attempt to cover. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made this quite plain when he spoke in his second reading speech of the purpose of this Bill, which is to increase benefits. He highlighted certain other projected ideas which may come before the House at a future time. 
I should like to go through some of the propositions I put before the Treasurer some 6 weeks ago. I asked: 
In view of the Ninth Quinquennial Investigation  as  at 30th June 1967 of the Superannuation Fund, what progress has been made with the revision of superannuation arrangements for Commonwealth employees. 
what is the nature and form of the proposed revised arrangements. 
When will the new arrangements be announced. 
To what extent  win  the revised arrangements in clude the following features of a new scheme as indicated in the report: 
an increase in pension benefits to widows and resumption of the payment of widows' pensions under certain conditions- 
I should like to stop there momentarily to point out that, of course, this Bill conforms generally with those principles. If this is the correct occasion I should like to refer to an anomaly which occurs. Maybe the Government is glad about this, but as a back bencher I am not pleased. I refer to the treatment of widows' payments under the superannuation scheme for civil servants. The Treasurer, in his second reading speech, said: 
As on previous occasions, a widow will receive the appropriate proportion, five-eighths or one-half as the case may be, of the increase that her husband would have received had he been alive and in receipt of a pension on 30th June 1973. Certain orphans will also receive increased pensions. 
If I am correct, it means this: If I am struggling home from a meeting 140 miles away in the electorate of Angas and I collide with a blue gum with fatal results I think it is correct to say that my widow would not receive a seven-eighths pension and under the new Act on a rising scale but would be, in fact, on a proportion of five-sixths of the payment I would be entitled to. 
Yes, that is correct. Whether the point I am making is right or wrong, the one thing that is correct is that my wife or the Treasurer's wife or the wife of any honourable member does not at present receive a superannuation benefit, once her husband becomes deceased, at a rate that increases with the inflationary rate of the currency. 
There have been rumours that the whole matter of parliamentary superannuation payments might well be examined during the course of this week. I should just like to draw the attention of the Treasurer to the anomaly I mention. Unless I am much mistaken I do not think there would be a great many Commonwealth employees who would have to drive with the degree of frequency that parliamentarians do, through the night from midnight onwards, perhaps over distances up to 200 miles on the way home. These are potentially fatal circumstances which the Minister could well examine in relation to quite a high proportion of members of Parliament who represent large areas - in my case perhaps the size of the State of Tasmania. It is not easy for them to effect a reasonable coverage of their electorate when they are very tired and trying to struggle home late at night. 
I now carry on quoting some of the suggestions I put forward to the Treasurer some weeks ago. I asked:   . . (b) an increase in children's and orphans' benefits, (c) automatic adjustment of pensions based on a cost of living or similar index, - 
The previous speaker dealt with this point. In some ways he feels that this scheme does not compare with the previous superannuation scheme, but it is at least commendable that some attempt has been made in this case to equate pensions and superannuation benefits with the decreasing value of the currency. I should like to have a word or two more to say on that in a few minutes time. I went on to ask the Treasurer: 
variation In the calculation of retrenchment benefits, (e) in the case of single pensioners, a payment could be made to the next-of-kin of any excess of contributions over pension received, (f) interest to be paid on refunds of contributions to those members leaving the fund - 
I add that I was a State member of Parliament before I was elected to this House some years ago and, I received no such return on my contributions to the State superannuation fund. In fact, I received a bare return of my own contributions without any interest ingredient whatsoever. I still hope that one day some Federal government will be charitable enough to try to introduce some benefits to cover time served in State parliaments - I hope State governments will forgive me for saying so - for those members of Parliament who consider it part of their normal progress to start in a State House and finish in a Federal one. I do not think they should necessarily be penalised for having such a progressive attitude on political matters. These remarks apply to a dozen or so ex-State members currently in this House. But perhaps the Government of today agrees with rae about as much as the government of the past did in relation to my plea along these lines. For instance. I know of one member of this House who served for 10 or 12 years in a State House and who has served for probably no longer than that in this House. His superannuation rights start only from the day on which he became a member of this House of Representatives. I hope that one day a government in its wisdom will have some mercy on those who appear, in their own minds anyway, to progress rather than to regress along their path of competence or interest. The remainder of that part of the question reads: 
rates of contributions to be limited to a maximum percentage of salary in accordance with age at entry to the scheme, (h) provision for limited benefits for those contributors not meeting the full medical standards of the present scheme, (i) voluntary retirement and payment of an adjusted pension at  55  years of age and (j) a provision to be made for commutation of the pension to a lump sum on age retirement. 
Many other matters are referred to in that question which I put on notice to the Treasurer some 6 weeks ago but I will not canvass them now because, quite patently, this Bill is what might be termed a half-way house in that it only aims, as 1 think I said already, to increase benefits in relation to the changing value of money at this point of time. 
The honourable member for Phillip has, among other things, pointed out the interest shown by Professor Pollard in the need for the fund itself to look for growth investment possibilities in relation to the returns that could - I think that is the right word - be made to those who contribute to the fund. I leave aside the fact that in the previous decade a fair surplus has been left in this fund. So far we have not heard much about this so we do not really know how it is to be distributed. What Professor Pollard has in mind is something that concerns many people other than those who run the Commonwealth superannuation fund, it concerns also people who are worried today about whether they can invest in something that will hold its value if inflation does proceed to gallop. This is a matter that concerns not only the honourable member for Phillip - and one would hope that it would concern the Government vitally - but also those of us who are looking after other people's funds in a wide variety of different fields and in different interests. 
I do not think anyone on this side of the House could have any objection to the matters brought forward in this Bill. In the short time remaining to me in this debate I would suggest very firmly that the Government look very carefully at the interests of so many people in the community today who see themselves as future superannuitants with a view to helping and possible educating them, other than through the adult education scheme, so that they may define the sort of area and type of retirement that they, and many of us who have spent a lifetime in servie to the nation, would wish properly to have. 
I wish to refer to a matter concerning a  Mrs Young  of my electorate who belongs to an association called the Australian Adoptive Families Association.  Her  particular worry, which I told her I would bring up briefly in Parliament at the first available opportunity, is that she says she wrote to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  in December last and has had a telegram from his secretary to say that the Minister will look into a matter of adoption, but she has not yet had anything else from the Minister. She says that she wrote again to the Minister towards the end of February, but this did not make much difference. The problem that the Association poses to the Minister - I will try to make this as brief as possible - is that in order to adopt a war orphan from Vietnam, a child of varied race, which the members of the Association wish -o do, they have to apply for adoption by proxy through a Vietnamese lawyer once the children have been located for adoption purposes. At some subsequent stage they are :hen in a position perhaps to bring a child to Australia. 
They wish to ask the Minister 2 questions: Firstly, if the children are under 2 years of age and if they come in as a group, will the Commonwealth bear the cost of the fare of an escort to look after them? Secondly, would these children be eligible to enter Australia on an assisted passage? They then go on to point out that the United States Government has an agreement with the Vietnamese Government whereby a release form is sent to Vietnam and the child can then leave for its new home within 6 weeks of its being located, during Which time the legal adoption process is conducted and completed in Vietnam. My information is that it costs $25 a month while the child is being cared for in Vietnam, and that it takes sometimes 8 to 9 months to complete, the proxy adoption. That is the situation that applies in the case of  Mrs Young  and I promised her, rightly or wrongly, that I would bring up this matter at the first available opportunity. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government use its influence to motivate relevant United Nations Agencies to set up machinery as soon as possible to cope with the huge effort that will probably be necessary in order to save 15 million Indian people from starvation due to the lack of monsoon al rainfall. 
Very briefly, I say to the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn),  who has just resumed his seat, that he ought to remember the history of tha dual airline policy and take into account that the government of the day - which was of the colour of the present Opposition rather than the colour of the present Government - had to search the length and breadth of the land to find somebody or some firm to take over the role of competitor with what was in those days, to all intents and purposes, a government monopoly of the transportation of passengers through Australia. That is why my Party believes in a dual airline policy. It is for the same reason that people on this side of the chamber can hardly be blamed for saying that honourable members opposite do not believe in a dual airline policy. 
If honourable members opposite want any more proof of why we might be suspicious about this matter they should look at what their own Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is in charge of this Bill, said the other day in relation to the proposal by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. This nation has been setting up as a nation the last bit of genuine colonialism. It has nurtured and looked after Papua New Guinea in the process of making that Territory an independent nation. Contrary to the wishes of the man who will be the Prime Minister of an independent nation in years to come, the Minister for Transport threatened fiscal reprisals and said that he must not allow the degree of capital holding of one Australian company to be, part and parcel of the future airline policy of a future nation which is our next door neighbour. So, do not ask us why we are suspicious of the Government's attitude to this Bill. 
The honourable member is right; everybody is suspicious. This is particularly so as the Bill does not define the areas which the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  seeks to define. Let us have a look at some of the remarks that have been made in relation to this clause. The Opposition has been accused of looking for campaign funds. I do not think that is a particularly nice or fair contention to fling around this Parliament. 
-Yes, it is scurrilous. It can be countered very easily by examples that would not make members of the Government Party happy. But that is a subject perhaps for an adjournment debate and we should not allow it to muddle our thinking now. The use of superannuation funds was mentioned as applying to Trans-Australia Airlines but not to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. We say that this is not fair and equitable treatment. The Bill contains a provision which, admittedly, is loose in its meaning but which implies that State governments may rebate State taxation measures in relation to TAA but not in relation to ATI. Frankly, I do not think that this is more than a fond socialistic wish of the Government of the day, but let us look at what it could do. State taxes on liquor licences could be remitted from one of those 2 companies. 
-Land tax could be remitted but it could apply to Ansett Transport Industries. Other charges include water rates and sewerage rates. 
-And also payroll tax. Probably more important is the ton-mile tax. Just look at the implications. I do not think it is more than a blithe socialistic dream. But provision is made in this Bill. Honourable members opposite should not talk to us about whether we believe in the dual airline policy. This Bill provides for the exemptions. We cannot be blamed nor can the people of Australia be blamed for feeling that there is some hidden factor in this Bill that might react to their detriment. I do not think for one minute that the people of Australia believe any more than I do in the grasping all-embracing giant monolithic structures with all the built-in potential for gross inefficiency and all the built-in potential for a lack of initiative. I do not think that the people of Australia want structures of this sort. I know that honourable members on this side are fearful in regard to them. I have dealt with the sheer inertia of these big monolithic structures. I have dealt briefly with the fact that honourable members on this side of the House saw years ago the need to draw up a scheme of competition to protect the air-travelling public of this country. We have achieved a great deal over the last 20 years. The Government of the day says that the situation needs to be improved. I do not quarrel with that. I hope I will never quarrel with a suggestion that there is a need to alter a circumstance to fit new conditions, but this is not what the Government is doing in this legislation. I have demonstrated that the treatment would not be equal. I have demonstrated how this Bill does not say what the Government says it will do. The Act itself is wider ranging than is this legislation. I believe that because of these circumstances there is a right for the people on this side of the House to put to the Australian people the other side of the picture. Part and parcel of this are the amendments which have been moved by the honourable member for Gippsland. I think the nation would do well to have alook at the amendments. The amendment to clause 5 reads: 
substitute the following sub-section: 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to transport passengers and goods for reward by air between prescribed places; and 
within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by air or in association with its powers in this section and, within those limits, to provide land transport accommodation, and other services and facilities associated with the exercise of its powers under paragraph (a), and the Commission shall carry on business for the purpose of performing those functions'. 
For want of a better name, this became known as the Cotton declaration. It is what the previous Government promised the people of Australia it would do if it was elected in Decemberlast year. It is not for me to spell out the 7 or 8 conditions that the Government put in a statement which it made publicly and to which it committed itself if it was returned to office. It was not returned. This Government has taken up the issues with which the previous Government was involved. But it has gone too far and for honourable members opposite to accuse honourable members on this side of the House of being fearful of the intention of the Government in regard to this Bill is most surprising because the Government has given us every reason to be fearful in the type of Bill which is now before the House. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the Ninth Quinquennial Investigation as at 30 June 1967 of the Superannuation Fund, what progress has been made with the revision of superannuation arrangements for Commonwealth employees. 
What is the nature and form of the proposed revised arrangements. 
When will the new arrangements be announced. 
To what extent will the revised arrangements include the following features of a new scheme as indicated in the report: (a) an increase in pension benefits to widows and resumption of the payment of widows' pensions under certain conditions, (b) an increase in children's and orphans' benefits, (c) automatic adjustment of pensions based on a cost of living or similar index, or to notional variations in final salary, (d) variation in the calculation of retrenchment benefits, (e) in the case of single pensioners, a payment to be made to the next of kin of any excess of contributions over pension received, (0 interest to be paid on refunds of contributions to those members leaving the Fund, (g) rates of contributions to be limited to a maximum percentage of salary in accordance with age at entry to the scheme, (h) provision for limited benefits for those contributors not meeting the full medical standards of the present scheme, (i) voluntary retirement and payment of an adjusted pension at 55 years of age and (j) a provision to be made for commutation of the pension to alump sum on age retirement. 
Did the Superannuation Board, in paragraphs 39 to 41 of its report express concern that the Tenth Quinquennial Investigation as at 30 June 1972 of the Superannuation Fund was due and may overlap with the outcome of the Ninth Quinquennial Investigation if distribution of the surplus assets as cash payments were made from the earlier Investigation. 
If so, and in view of the Board's concern which is shared by all members of the Fund, will he indicate what decision will be made on the surplus from the Ninth Quinquennial Investigation. 
Can he also indicate the possible surplus which will emerge from the Tenth Quinquennial Investigation of the Fund. 
As the largest employing authority in Australia, will the Government set a lead in the important field of preparing their employees for healthy, happy and successful retirement by introducing an appropriate educational scheme. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to allow donations to aid bodies, such as Community Aid Abroad, as tax deductions, as has been promised from time to time. 
If not, is it the attitude of the Government that all wisdom in relation to aid direction is vested in the public, rather than the private, sector. 
I was extremely interested to hear the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  talk about what he saw as the 2 elements which had suffered from last Saturday's election result in Victoria. I would have thought that it was one of the most devasting defeats ever handed out to the Australian Labor Party, particularly when a Federal result was obtained only a matter of a few months earlier. 
It is no use the honourable member protesting. Honourable members opposite can protest as much as they like; that is the key point of the Victorian election. How silly it is of honourable members opposite to bring the Victorian election forth as a red herring to try to divert attention from the argument when we, the Opposition parties on this side of the Parliament, have introduced today a very serious matter for the notice of the nation. For the edification of members on the Government side I will read the terms of the matter of public importance. The discussion of a matter of public importance was introduced by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and states: 
The Government's lack of concern for the longterm needs of rural industry and the uncertainty being created by the Government's inability and unwillingness to make long-term decisions on rural industries. 
That is the issue, not all the other issues that have been propounded before the House today. The issue is the uncertainty due to the lack of long term decision on the part of the Government since it has been the Government of this nation. There are those on this side of the House who feel that, as a result of this matter having been raised, we can begin to inject a bit of decision making into the Government on so many of the issues that now are causing uncertainties in every rural sector in Australia today. 
Let us touch on one or two of these issues, because this is the point of the exercise. It has nothing to do with what happened in the last Government or 3 decades ago or what Bob Menzies thought of some woe-begone situation. The element that has been introduced today by the raising of this matter of public importance should be, but has not been, confined to those areas. The areas to which I refer are quite distinct and I hope to elaborate on them as I develop my speech. 
Before I do so, however, might I take a bit of a side swipe at the honourable member for Eden-Monaro who professed to be the Secretary of the Australian Labor Party's primary industry committee. I think we on this side could all say: 'Jolly good luck to you'. He has the job in front of him. As far as I am aware - I stand to be corrected on this matter - not one member of the entire Government has ever owned his own farm and tried to produce wool, meat, tobacco or whatever it might be. I have no doubt that the meetings of this committee are interesting and educational to people who try to instruct its members on some of the basic problems that affect people on the land today. So, I wish the honourable member for Eden-Monaro good luck and I hope he succeeds in getting members of the committee down to earth every now and again. I say this in spite of the example that is so close to the memory of all of us when the Minister for Nothern Development who is at the table had to draw attention to the complete disunity and, might 1 say, stupidity of certain resolutions moved in Tasmania to the complete disadvantage of the future of agriculture in this nation. 
In order to demonstrate the Government's unwillingness to make long term decisions I could instance a variety of matters most of which have been fully debated already today. However, one matter that has upset the people in my electorate more than any other concerns the reduction in Commonwealth funds for various purposes - more or less for all rural industries across the board. The provision of country telephones is one matter that a colleague of mine has raised on occasions but the only substantial answer the Government has given is that it would be cheaper for the Government to take over farms in isolated areas than to establish telephone connections. I do not know whether that is right as an economic exercise but this is one cause for discontent in rural areas. Government supporters may think it quaint that people living in outlying areas should feel that they have a right to some of the facilities available to their city brethren. The Government sees no chance of such telephone connections as a realistic proposition. In fact the only reply given to serious questions is the facetious comment that it would be cheaper for the Government to take over farms than to supply them with telephones. Another matter for concern is wheat stabilisa tion which I shall discuss at greater length soon. There is grave uncertainty in the dairying industry. I wish I had time to discuss this topic properly. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  drew attention to the implications of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee whose operations affect the price of canned fruit if sugar rebates are granted. Instructions have been given to lower prices to the growers of commodities for fruit canning. So the list goes on. 
Adverting to the wheat industry, it is well known that every 5 years the wheat stabilisation plan comes up for renewal. In 1968 the Australian Agricultural Council knew that the plan will come up for review in 1973. The Standing Committee on Agriculture, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and officers of the Department of Primary Industry are aware of this fact, as is the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The Australian Labor Party would have known since 1968 that the plan was due for renewal in 1973. Why is it now suggested that the Government needs more time to examine this question? I believe that this is a valid question. Everybody has had any amount of time to assess the implications of a stabilisation plan. Only one implication strikes the growers in my electorate and that is that the Government means to undo drastically the sort of plan that the industry has been used to in the past. That is the only clear implication to be drawn from the present situation, yet Government supporters ask why we say that there is uncertainty. There is a ton of uncertainty and the wheat stabilisation plan is only one example. lt may be valid to ask whether the Government has taken this step of proposing only a year's planning because of the possibility of an election. I do not know the answer. Is it because the Government is incompetent? I should not have thought so. Certainly 1 do not regard officers of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and of the Department of Primary Industry as incompetent. Is the present situation causing uncertainty? Undoubtedly it is causing grave uncertainty. 
What are the elements of the wheat stabilisation scheme? The most important element is the export area where a guaranteed price is to be offered for 200 million bushels. The legislation recently passed by this House increases the guaranteed price by 3c a bushel but this will not cover the depreciating value of the dollar during the next harvest period. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator 
Wriedt) consistently claims the current scheme to be 'open ended'. One end is closed in that the area of export is defined. The agreed price also is defined. I would suggest that the home market is defined because it is easily discernible and its requirements easily projected. If one examines any dictionary definition of 'open ended' one has doubts - certainly I do - whether the wheat stabilisation scheme could be referred to as open ended. By any equation of the elements involved, I would say that it is closed. Why then does the Minister insist that it is an open ended scheme? This is one cause of uncertainty in the industry. It is typical of the uncertainty that is rife in the rural population today. We are not debating legislation related to wheat now so perhaps I should restrict my remarks on wheat stabilisation to what I have said. 
Let us examine the dairying industry. Has the Government given any assurances to the dairying industry? The clear answer is that it has not. People in my electorate who are engaged in dairying pursuits - indeed, in a part time way I am a dairyman - do not know whether to go ahead with capital investment in this industry. This attitude is mirrored in the fruit industry, in the apple industry and in rural reconstruction where there are grave doubts about the Government's intentions. So long as uninformed caucus members dictate to those who bring forward ideas of some merit- 
I address my question to the Minister for Immigration. Has the Minister observed the difficulties of fruit growers in electorates such as his and mine due to a shortage of suitable labour to aid in a particularly difficult harvest period earlier in the year? Is the Minister aware that because many migrants have like interests in Europe they represent a high proportion of such labour? Does his reported change of policy allow for a greater number of migrants from the areas I have mentioned? If not, can he offer any hope in a tighter labour situation for additional help to the fruit growers in his electorate and mine whose financial security is under some degree of threat? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was there a breakdown of quarantine procedures involving the Prime Minister and the Deputy 
Prime Minister on two recent occasions on their return to Australia. 
If so, what steps are now to be taken to subject returning Ministers to the same scrutiny as that to which members of the public are subjected. 
Does the Government agree that all travellers should be equally subject to measures which aim to protect the Australian livestock and horticultural industries. 
I was glad to hear the honourable member for Darling  (Mr 
Fitzpatrick) point out that he also does not have proper time in the national forum to put forward views on behalf of his electorate about fuel and oil exploration which are vital to this nation. I commence my speech by protesting once again about the lack of time given to honourable members to speak in this place, which is turning this national forum into a farce. Honourable members cannot get up and properly debate the issues that are of concern to the nation as a whole. Like the honourable member for Darling I too have not been given the opportunity to debate these important matters. I have been gagged on 3 occasions so far this session when I have been speaking on the subject of oil. Even today I have not been given adequate time to debate the Labor Party's policy on these matters. 
I feel for the honourable member for Darling and people who have employment problems brought about by the Government's policy in this matter. I would like to quote part of an article which relates to a speech made by  Mr D.  A. Wittwer in Adelaide yesterday. It states:   . . there seemed to be a bland assumption in  Canberra  that the establishment of authorities such as the National Minerals and Petroleum Authority would automatically create a flow of oil. 
I presume he means other than words - 
It was one thing to set up a government authority, but it was another matter to attract other explorers who had the technical, managerial and financial expertise and resources to work with such a novice organisation. 
The prospect of the Government's operating alone somewhat stretched the imagination,  Mr Wittwer  said. 
To maintain a high degree of self sufficiency during the next 20 years Australia would have to find nine billion barrels of crude - 4 times known reserves. 
I will let that statement speak for itself. I wish to move on to the reasons why I put my name down to talk on these associated Bills. Frankly, I rise today to put forward views which have been suggested to me by a prominent company lawyer and several taxpayers' associations, including the Taxpayers Association of South Australia. However, before saying more in relation to these matters I also want to emphasise, as did the honourable members for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  and Curtin  (Mr Garland)  in 2 very competent speeches, that I support the general principles of the Bills insofar as they aim to eliminate schemes of tax avoidance where these cases are against the spirit of the legislation. I would differentiate - perhaps others might not - between, say, the purchase of tax loss companies or indeed the temporary provision of life insurance on the one hand and the genuine cases frequently of people applying themselves to the letter of the law on the other. But be that as it may, in my view the Government has not only the right but the responsibility to amend the law in both of these instances if it is not satisfied with the manner in which that law is operating. That, I presume, is precisely what the Government has as its intention this afternoon. I repeat that I do not object to the aims of the Government in this regard. But on the other hand I wish, without being mistaken I hope as regards my intention, to mention some of the anomalies that can and will occur even though notice is taken of the views put forward by competent people, and in this case through me, to the national Parliament. 
I do not intend to touch on the amendment that will be moved by the honourable member for Curtin as I want to save the time of the House. But I would say that I support his views and his amendment most fully as they overcome some problems that I had in mind prior to getting to my feet today. I trust that the Government will be impressed by the amendment to be moved by the honourable member and indeed the other amendments and will during the afternoon find itself in the position of being able to accept at least the proposition of the honourable member for Curtin when he moves his amendment during the Committee stage. Nevertheless, as I said earlier, I consider several aspects of the Bill to be unsatisfactory. Broadly I suppose it can be said that the Bill proposes that bad debts and past losses incurred by companies should not be deductible and dividends paid should not be taken into account for sufficient and excess distribution purposes unless the company in question satisfies a 'more than 50 per cent continuity of beneficial ownership' test or alternatively a 'continuity of business test'. I might quote an example. The. 'more than 50 per cent continuity of ownership' test may work hardship in that, in its present form, it may seriously penalise some private companies in quite genuine cases. This is because, for example, the particular sections dealing with the 'more than 50 per cent' test will be mandatory - unless of course the continuing business test is satisfied - and are not alleviated by any saving provision, such as there is in relation to the tests of public company status, which would authorise the loss to be allowed, notwithstanding failure to satisfy the continuity test, if, say, the excessive changes in ownership are explicable by ordinary business or family dealing and had no substantial fiscal motive. 
It is not difficult to imagine some situations in which the new test could work anomalously. Let us assume that two equal partners operated in company form, the business incurred losses, and on: partner bought the other out with a view to re-establishing profitability. If the business had been making losses he might wish to make considerable changes in its methods, transactions, product lines and so on. Section 80s may thus not apply and, as he originally held only SO per cent of the capital and not a majority share, the company could not satisfy the 'more than 50 per cent' test. Another anomaly could arise if we assume that there was a more than 50 per cent change, over the  7  year period in which a loss can be carried forward, in the beneficial ownership of a company's shares due to family circumstances such as sons and sons-in-law coming into the business, trusts for infant children being created and so on. This certainly would not be an impugned 'tax loss company sale' yet the loss would not be deductible unless section 80e was satisfied, lt has been submitted to me that these  2  instances should be put before the Parliament for consideration. 
The third matter that I want to mention relates to the remarks of my friend the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  on the other side of the House who pointed out that no loopholes should ever be allowed to exist in this type of legislation. I would have thought that he would have knowledge at the grass roots level of this sort of legislation and would realise that probably no legislation has been brought forward which has been free from the possibility of doubtful transactions which work against the spirit of that legislation. I want to refute the remarks that were made earlier by the honourable member for Banks that any government, be it the last one or this one, will ever have a perfect law in relation to these matters. The example which I want to quote to the honourable member for Banks concerns the continuity of business test, which may still be capable of exploitation for tax avoidance purposes. It then goes on to say why this is so. This comes from the Australian Federal Tax Reporter'. So, I just say again that there is no complete purity in these matters and I think the honourable member for Banks, with his experience as a civil servant, could well remember that. 
The next example on which I wish to touch concerns a provision on which in many ways I would entirely agree with the Government. However, I hope that in the example that I intend to put before the House, the Government will see the sort of anomaly and difficulty which I find in the provision. This example is a case where one family bought the shares of their relatives who held just over 50 per cent of the shareholding. The relatives bought shares in other companies. The price was fixed on the basis that substantial tax benefits would accrue under the existing law because of more than 40 per cent continuity of ownership under section 80A. Tax losses had been incurred in substantial development of a large pastoral property in a low rainfall area, including heavy expenditure of research in conjunction with State departments and on other experiments. These experiments were carried out in a new area where one could produce a pretty good case to suggest that this sort of experimentation was necessary. It was to encourage exactly that sort of research, presumably, that the current Act left this opening, and in this case the opening will be closed. 
I repeat what I said: There are very many instances - this is the difficulty of drafting legislation - in which I would agree with the Government, but that is one in which I would not agree with the Government. In fact, if one wished to prolong the debate on this issue, one could say that, although family enterprises in Australia represent the most efficient sector of farming, in effect the operation of the Bill that the Treasurer has before the House today could hand this sector over to corporate farming and limit the value of this efficient sector of farming, that is, if we ignore the lower level which hardly pays taxation. Although this is not the type of debate in which I should raise this matter, I point to it in passing because a well known and reputable company lawyer sees this sort of problem arising. 
The continuity of business test under section 80e no longer applies in this case as the same company now also conducts other enterprises and the continuity of business test has been construed too strictly for this section to apply. That completes the difficulty that, I gather, this legislation will bring about. Changes could be exempted, it has been suggested to me, by 'the explicable by ordinary business or family dealing clauses'. I refer to that just in passing in case the Government might wish to have a look at that in due course. That expression is taken from the judgment of the Privy Council in Peate's case on section 260 which dealt with the formation of companies by medical practitioners, in its original form in Newcastle. 
In order to hasten the debate along, I will finish with one small comment on the retrospectivity problem that has been debated already by other speakers. I will quote the Taxpayers Association of South Australia. That Association says: 
This Association is strongly opposed to the retrospective nature of these provisions. 
I might add that many of these problems would be overcome if the Government accepted the amendment to be proposed by the honourable member for Curtin. The Association continues: 
The effect of the Bill is to deny tax benefits to taxpayers who acted in good faith in accordance with the law in existence at the time ... A person acting in the terms of the law as it is written on the statute books is surely entitled to rest assured that he will not subsequently be penalised or be found to have acted outside the law under legislation passed years after his action. 
I will now give up my space on the floor of the House. Although I admit that doubt exists on the retrospectivity angle in relation to various clauses of these Bills, I hasten to add that I personally and, I am sure, all other members on this side of the House will always try to make sure that retrospectivity is never implemented to the disadvantage of any people in Australia, where they be taxpayers or not. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Where in Australia are road blocks set up to guard against new infestations from (a) Queensland fruit fly and (b) the Mediterranean fruit fly. 
Can he say what sum is expended by each of the States, both interestate and intrastate, to stop the re-infestion of areas from fruit fly. 
Has a serious national attempt ever been made to eliminate the Queensland and Mediterranean fruit flies, in order to cut out large annual commitments of the resources of manpower and finance, the use of which acts purely as a palliative or an attempt to stop the infestation of one area from the next. 
What experimental work has been carried out by the C.S.I.R.O. in relation to this national problem which with other infestations such as codlin - moth, is spoiling export of fresh fruits to ready market in Asia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Where in Australia are road blocks set up to guard against new infestations from (a) the Queensland fruit fly and (b) the Mediterranean fruit fly. 
Can he say what sum is expended by each of the States, both interstate and intrastate, to stop the re-infestation of areas from fruit fly. 
Has a serious national attempt ever been made to eliminate the Queensland and the Mediterranean fruit flies, in order to cut out large annua] commitments of the resources of manpower and finance, the use of which acts purely as a palliative or an attempt to stop the infestation of one area from the next. 
What experimental work has been carried out by the CSIRO in relation to this national problem which, with other infestations such as Codlin-moth, is spoiling export of fresh fruits to ready markets in Asia. 
It is not my aim to get at loggerheads with a man so important and so erudite as the Leader of the House. But in this case I went along to his chief Whip and I posed him with a problem as regards this debate. I sat with the Country Party Whip and I watched the Government Whip go down and talk to the Leader of the House. I cannot tell what did or did not go on at that time. But the Government Whip came back and gave me the answer immediately. It was perfectly obvious from the answer given to me by the Government Whip that this matter had been discussed between him and the Leader of the House. I am not here to cause trouble, but I say let there be a bit of honesty about this. Before the Leader of the House accuses me of falsehoods, might I add that I have witnesses for every statement that I have made. I regard those statements as quite truthful. The Government Whip came back and laid down conditions under which this debate could take place as regards amendments - of which we had none. This matter is perfectly plain in my mind. I just hope that the Leader of the House regrets his statement. 
There is another area of the discussions the Prime Minister held overseas - those in the United States - which highlight the problems of not being able to talk on this matter. I refer to the difficulties that emanate from the deterioration in Australia's relationships with the United States. 
Australians have at the irrational and irresponsible statements by the Prime Minister echoing those of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in regard to the involvement of multi-national corporations in our community. It is important that there be an adequate discussion of this issue in this House. I think we all recognise that multi-national corporations have made a contribution to the development of this country. There should be an opportunity to talk on this matter. There should be an opportunity for us to consider both sides of the story. Of course we all want the maximum Australian identity in the development of this country. We want the maximum Australian involvement. We want an opportunity to discuss that involvement and to discuss the way in which multi-national corporations can and will make a contribution to the development of Australia. 
I think it is a matter of great importance to honourable members that the House should agree to the suspension of Standing Orders so that this matter can be properly aired. Right from the word 'go' I refute the particularly stupid contention by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  when he said: "Does this House have to put up with 2 spokesmen?' I ask the Government Whip, because he is an honourable bloke and I am fond of him: Did I or did I not go to him and say: 'Will you find out whether we can have two or three or - from memory - five or six speakers on this particular motion? What is the Government's wish?' I have no doubt of what he said to the Leader of the House. My only cause for complaint with the Leader of the House - this is one reason why this matter should be aired - is his statement that the matter of the number of speakers was not referred to him. I can say only, because I know it will be unparliamentary if I get any terser, that this is completely incorrect. It is incorrect because I saw the movements go on. I am sorry for the Leader of the House that he has put himself out on a limb where people will hesitate to trust him again on these sorts of matters. There is no question about this. 
However, I am quite sure that at this stage I should deal more fully with the reasons why the Prime Minister's statement should be debated. There is no question in my mind about this. I hope that the House will agree with me when from memory I say that when we were in government and this sort of issue came forward we made exactly the same kind of arrangement as I put into the train today through the Government Whip. I cannot help it if the Leader of the House and the Government Whip are talking to each other now for the first time this week because frankly that is the position that the Government Whip's office has fallen into since December last. 
The Government Whip does not seem to me to have the authority that the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  had in the past, and he was only Opposition Whip. Now, in government, surely the high office of Whip is an even more responsible one. The motion to suspend the Standing Orders serves to illustrate the importance of keeping the chains of communication open.  Mr Speaker,  just look at the Leader of the House and the Government Whip. They are having their weekly talk, and probably the first they have had for a while. It is no use the Leader of the House trying to patch up the damage in a couple of seconds because the damage is done. 
The damage to his reputation has been done for ever. I for one will hesitate to agree lightly with his word again. I hesitate to want him to put it in writing because that is probably carrying it a bit too far. It is time the Leader of the House took on his shoulders the fact that this House and the Government of which he is a part - a rather insignificant part - cannot function properly without having a certain amount of agreement with and consideration for the Opposition. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for reminding me of these things. In the couple of minutes left to me to speak I want to point to some of the reasons that this matter should have been debated today. Is it or is it not important to this nation that the current 
Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam)  has treated our erstwhile friends in such a shoddy fashion? This is the issue that should have been debated today and this is why the House would be well advised to carry the motion to be decided in a few minutes. Should we or should we not pay attention to the traditions and beliefs of our nation and the European countries from which they came? Should all this ground be cut away? 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Sinclair's)  be agreed to. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, but only in one small detail. I thank the Government Whip for putting the matter in a cool and moderate fashion. Had the honourable member for Wide Bay not been talking with the Leader of the House he would have been aware of the situation. However, I am not complaining about that. I am complaining only about the statement of the Leader of the House that the matter had not been referred to him. I knew that it had been referred to him. That is my only cause for complaint. Apart from that, everything that the Government Whip has said is true, except that he did not go far enough. He will remember that I asked him: Is the Government going to allow 3, 4, 5 or 6 speakers on this matter?' These are the exact pairs of numbers that I used. It was never a' matter of 2 speakers but how many speakers we were going to float from this side. I thought my procedure of referring it through the honourable member for Wide Bay to the Leader of the House was correct because it was during question time and the Leader of the House looked busy at that time. I apologise if I have caused a storm in a teacup. The reason that I claim to be misrepresented - 'Hansard will show it tomorrow - is that the Leader of the House said that the matter had not been referred to him. It was referred to him. 
We now return to the point we had reached before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, when the House was debating whether the stringent denial of the usual time off enjoyed by the Parliament should apply according to the wishes of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  or whether, as was proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  at least the time for party meetings on Wednesdays should be restored to what traditionally has been the case in this House for many years. I support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I do so for many reasons which I hope to amplify as I go along. Before I do so, might I be allowed the luxury of saying as a former fighter pilot that, if I heard the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  correctly, I would hate to be flying a Mirage into the 1980s. I think I would rather fly an aerial pushbike and hang on sky hooks. However, to return to the debate- 
During the Budget Speech yesterday it became apparent that the Government, whilst believing in keeping prices down - although it did nothing of any significance to stop inflation - in one area of great concern to my electorate put prices up. I refer to soft drinks - that commodity which is so important to all school children, to mothers with families and to everyone else. By removing the sales tax exemption yesterday  the Government will force up the price of soft drinks by 5c to 6c for a medium sized bottle when the exemption becomes completely applicable. I point this out because I do not think that many people realise yet that this is one of the ruboffs of that action. That is a general remark. The Government has put up the price to the consumer very significantly by removing the 15 per cent deduction from sales tax that was applicable to all fruit soft drinks - in fact, all non-alcoholic beverages. The only two drinks that were not affected by the sales tax exemption were soda water and tonic water. All other non-alcoholic beverages have contained Australian fruit juices. This deduction, which used to encourage the use of fruit juices, was lifted by the Government in its Budget yesterday. 
To the growers at the top end of my electorate this means that Washington navel oranges - they cannot be used for fruit juice because of their slight bitterness, as compared with Valencias, and can be used only in soft drinks and cordials - may well be put on the scrap heap. As honourable members with knowledge of the citrus industry will know, all these Washington navels come in in one seasonal flush, as distinct from the Valencia oranges that come in throughout a reasonable period of the year. So these Washington navels will be flung on the scrap heap if no alternative outlet is found for them. This will cost the citrus growers in my area in the region of $500,000 during the first year. I make this comment because 1 noted that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in passing said in his speech yesterday that the exemption from sales tax gave no significant return to the primary producers. In that one small pocket of my area if alternative outlets cannot be found for Washington naval oranges, the growers will be short of 5500,000 in the first year. This is a terrible blow to the electorate of Angas. 
The Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories may be whimsical, critical or humorous if he is capable of being so, but this is a serious matter to my electorate, and I hope that he will regard it as my right and responsibility to point out in this Parliament the effect that the Budget will have on people in my electorate. I have mentioned the consumer and the increasing prices of these products brought about by Government action. I have mentioned the loss from the pockets of growers in my electorate caused by that action. 
I would now like to mention a much mere important matter. In my electorate there are co-operative factories, not the least of which is Berri Fruit Juices Co-operative Ltd. This company has taken up the challenge flung to the citrus industry on American trends and figures and today produces more than half of the total juice requirements of this nation, lt does so not out of imported products but out of Australian fruit growers' raw material. This matter is so serious that that modern, first class factory is now threatened financially in a very real way. It currently holds stocks worth about $500,000. The orders placed for wholesale purposes and soft drink manufacture are considerable but nobody knows which way to go. One of the purposes of my rising to speak tonight is to try to impress on the Government that not only will individual growers suffer real loss, not only will the consumer have to pay considerably more for soft drinks, but there is also a very real problem whether the co-operative factories - the factories owned by farmers in these communities - can remain solvent. A great deal of finance is required to ensure that alternative outlets of growing importance for fruit juice are kept open and encouraged in some way to operate efficiently and capably for the sake of the nation. 
I would like to mention a fourth matter which may strike home even more forcibly to honourable members. When the proposed legislation comes into effect about 95 per cent of soft drinks produced will not contain fruit juice as a natural food. What is the alternative? Unquestionably this short sighted action by the Government will mean that in order to remain solvent many soft drink manufacturers will immediately search for an alternative product. It does not require much imagination to realise that they will turn away from a natural foodstuff to some form of artificial colouring, flavouring and so on. 
I am acknowledging that. My point is that as an alternative to pure fruit juices alternative artificial commodities will be used. There is no question about that. They may not be used in the first week or two after the legislation is passed but the encouragement is provided by this Government virtually to subsidise research into alternatives. That might sound like a wild statement but it is the main fear of people in the community from which I come who think about these matters. 
I do not have time now to go into another dire matter that will affect my electorate. It concerns brandy. The brandy producers in my electorate provide about 92 per cent of the brandy produced in Australia. They have now been hit by the valuation of stock laws but I will not debate that now. One can argue either way. They have been hit also because the differential they have had all these years as against Australian gin, rum and vodka is to be removed over a period of years. People might say: 'Fair enough. Why not?' I remind the House that the grapes with which I am concerned have only 2 production outlets - wine or brandy. There are no alternative outlets. That restriction does not apply to the raw materials for Australian rum, vodka and whisky. In the production of those liquors the by-products of major industries can be used. 
Away back in 1953 the Government of that time made the same mistake as this Government has made. It tried to equalise the excise on brandy with that payable on competing products. The industry fell into a state of complete disrepair in a very short time and the differential had to be reintroduced. I have put these matters forward as calmly as I can but they are matters of very great moment to the people involved in the industries concerned. The sales tax exemption applies across the apple, pear and soft fruit growing areas in the other section of my electorate but that problem will remain for discussion on another occasion. 
I must quietly congratulate the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  on having the courage to get on to his feet tonight and take up the case for an industry in his electorate. I am very pleased to have from all quarters of the House support for what I said last night. One can only ponder as to the whereabouts of those other people who did all the talking about fruit in the past. Are they hiding behind Cabinet solidarity? What is their reason for not sparing a word or two at this stage for the sake of those in their electorates who have been so heavily hit by this decision on sales tax? In my electorate of Angas the people who have been hit hardest are the brandy producers. They have been hit 3 ways. On top of that they have to contend with the removal of the sales tax exemption. The honourable member for Wilmott showed great courage in talking from his side of the House on this matter tonight. 
There is another matter which is of very great concern to my electorate and which I intend to touch on this evening. Some honourable members of this House may remember that some time ago I spoke in a perhaps intemperate fashion about the fact that the River Murray water quality was not being protected. I said that this Government was not interested in the protection of the quality of the water downstream in South Australia. I pointed out that South Australia was on the end of the drain and had a vested interest. I pointed out that Albury and Wodonga could not help but pollute areas downstream that depended on high quality water. I also pointed out that the Premier of South Australia and the Labor Government were deficient in their responsibilities to that State because they would not seek a firm agreement on water quality and that all they had done at that stage, when they had been flushed out, if I may use the term, prior to a State election, was to come out with a few blithe words to the effect that they were watching this problem very carefully. 
When I said this and when I got quite a reasonable Press in the South Australian Advertiser' for a mere back bencher I was accused by the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia of being a headline hunter. The worm turned with a vengeance this afternoon. In Adelaide the Leader of the State Opposition, Bruce Eastick, asked the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Corcoran,  whether there was any truth in the task force statement from  Dr Coombs  that progress on the construction of the Dartmouth Dam would be slowed down in order to try to save the Government, which has been guilty of such rank over-expenditure in the public sector, from more embarrassment. The  Deputy  Premier of my State immediately assured the House that there was no such contention. He stated that as long as the Labor Party was in control of the future water supply of South Australia there would be no question about a proper guaranteed water supply. An hour later a letter was delivered. It went up and down the front bench of the State Labor Government while complexions turned progressively paler, so I am informed. 
The  Deputy  Premier, in the absence of  Mr Dunstan  who was away sick, then had to get up and say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  whom I contacted 40 minutes ago to let him know I was going to speak on this matter, had written a letter to the South Australian Premier requesting in very severe terms that there be no further contracts let. This is my information. I am a long way from Adelaide now, but I hope this is near enough to the spirit of the letter. The letter pointed out that there was benefits to all 4 parties to the agreement if the rate of expenditure were to be slowed down. What economic nonsense this is. Does one start to put money into something and then let it lie idle just because there is a big river flowing at present but no snow up in the Alps to substantiate the flow of water into South Australia, the State that is on the end of the drain? Does one then support such a contention from a Prime Minister who has been on record before as saying that the Ord is nothing but an economic tragedy? Honourable members will forgive the people of South Australia if they do not think that the Prime Minister is very genuine in wanting to conserve water for the driest State in the driest continent of the world, whose entire future industrial progress and that of the irrigators in my own electorate is dependent on quantity and quality of water from this source. 
A Liberal-Country League Premier of South Australia got himself, shall I say, into a state of disrepair when he fought to get a 37 per cent increase of available water for that State. He gave away the building of Chowilla Dam because there was better quality and a greater quantity of water available from the Dartmouth Dam if it were built. These are the facts. I want to say to the House at this stage that without the interference of the Premier of Souh Australia the Dartmouth Dam would now be built. He played politics in a State seat at the top end of my electorate next door to the electorate of my colleague and won the seat for one session, but it has now returned because people are starting to wake up. I hope that the State Government has the intestinal fortitude to make quite sure that it does not agree to this rotten suggestion implied in the Whitlam letter. Just because this Government has overspent left, right and centre and has had to ask  Dr Coombs  to try to rescue it by saving money here, there and everywhere, why should it penalise a State - or attempt to do so - which is only one party to the 4 agreements? Why penalise the only State that is entirely dependent for its water supply on the one and only river that runs through it? 
I remember full well today the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  - who is notorious for his absence from these debates affecting electors at present - trying to heap abuse on this side of the chamber in relation to the 'Burdekin Dam. What confidence will the people of the Burdekin River area have in him in future when he cannot even honour an agreement solemnly signed between all 4 parties to it? The Prime Minister is trying to get out of his extravangance by pushing the people of South Australia to the wall, when everybody knows that they are entirely dependent on that one source of water. 

 Mr Speaker, you will excuse me for sounding perhaps more emotional about things than usual tonight but this is a very serious thing for my electorate which is starved of irrigation water in normal years and which is not seeking to expand its irrigation area as are some other electorates in the Commonwealth which are further up the main stream of the Murray. Our only request, which is reason able, is to allow South Australia to exist, to expand a little industrially and to use more water - per head as the standard of living improves. People in South Australia are not attempting to increase irrigation waters in that State. As honourable members know, the farmers in my electorate are almost entirely involved in profitable enterprises. I might add that 92 per cent of the brandy supply of the entire country is at risk, not only from the effects of the Budget but also from the lack of water. Although I let the Prime Minister know that I would be raising this matter tonight I hope that he does not get away by the use of coercion and force with his centralist sympathies in trying to put a small State and small industries under his sway in order to swell his own ego or in order to patch up the extravagance of his other policies. 
I would like initially to say that I was pleased to see my friend the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  introduce his first Budget. I think it was quite a tragedy for those of us who know him to be a pleasant man to find that he found so narrow the path between responsibility on the one hand and, on the other hand, promises made by his leader the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in order to win the last general election. 
Yes, very limited. Those of us on this side of the chamber appreciate the difficulties that the Treasurer had and also the difficulties that the Treasury had but we feel that they have been defeated on this issue because undoubtedly the proper role of the Treasury is to safeguard the interests of the economy. I intend to elaborate on that matter later in my remarks. Although the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is not present in the House I would like to refer briefly to the speech he made before the suspension of the sitting. Two of the comments he made were of an outstanding nature. The first was that private enterprise has been proved across the world not to work. I would like to ask the honourable member where the blazes he thinks the Australian Government is getting its revenue and also where the real wealth of the country is generated at present because it certainly does not come from the public sector of the economy. There is no wealth in terms of the development of taxable income in that sector. I remind him that no matter how far his Marxist ideas might take him it is still worth recognising the fact that private enterprise is working and it is creating a good deal of dynamic force in a modern society such as Australia. Woe betide those who forget or ignore that fact. 
The other comment he made was even more extraordinary. He said that no increase in revenue raising was resorted to by this Government. There have been many fine speeches made during this debate. I refer him in particular to the one made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and also to comments made by the leader of the task force which has produced various suggestions to try to save the Government from introducing in this Budget a dose of rash irresponsible expenditure. I think that the comment by the honourable member for Burke that no increase in revenue raising has occurred is adequately covered by this statement: 
This year the Labor Government will take more from the taxpayers than has ever been taken before; this year Labor will increase the income tax it derives from wage and salary earners by almost 27 per cent - the largest increase in tax collections by any government in Australia ever; this year the increase - not the total take - will be over $1 billion. 
I should like to refer the honourable member for Burke to that statement of the situation which as far as I am able to perceive is entirely accurate. 
I rise tonight to support the amendment which has been moved by my leader. I will not read it because it has been read once or twice during the afternoon. But I do wish to talk tonight on the basic philosophy - where it is discernible - of the Government on the one hand and on the other hand to talk about that section of the Opposition's amendment which refers to discrimination against the rural community. I shall also refer to the Government's attempts to be divisive by producing such a document in the first place. 
With due regard to the Treasurer, I say that the Budget is an irresponsible document which attempts to honour some of the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in order to win the general election. On the other hand, it does nothing to control the situation that I think is now fairly described as one of 'raging inflation'. On an annual basis inflation of 13 per cent for the last quarter cannot be described as other than raging inflation. There is therefore built into this Budget a strong degree of risk of consequent damage to the future economy of this nation. I assure the Treasurer that I am enough of a nationalist to sit tight and hope that the risk does not harden into fact and that the strength of the Australian community in the position in which it was left to this Government after a long and illustrious spell in office by the Liberal-Country Party Government will be sufficient to cope with this degree of rash expenditure. 
The previous  speaker  from the Country Party, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  referred to the private sector of the economy and he said that it has been unduly hit by this Budget. I suppose we would be hopeful if we thought a socialist government would not hit at the initiative of the private sector. But the point that my colleague in the Country Party made was that there seems to be no logical need to bring about an increase in expenditure from the public sector just for the sake of doing so. I think it seems quite obvious to anybody that if taxation revenue produces so much of the national cake that amount of the cake can be used to increase the social benefits of the nation. It can be used for a wide variety of government initiatives to try to help the business life of this nation become even more productive. But it does not matter whether one looks at the position which exists in the United Kingdom or that which exists in Russia. The position is similar. All socialistic governments try to stamp on initiative and traditionally they try to wreck the small companies and businesses. I have not before me some facts which I recall having read in relation even to the position in the United Kingdom under the Attlee Government. But what I have said is a statistical fact. 
In the full meaning of the words I agree completely. I do not think I need argue that case with facts and figures. Most honourable members will acknowledge that what I have said is precisely what happens. Socialistic governments tread on initiative. If anyone goes to Russia today as I did a few weeks ago with an Australian delegation they will see a classic example of that. If a visitor wants to go shopping the first problem is to find a shop. The second problem is to find a way in which the goods of that society are available for people to buy. The visitor's problem is to know what is available for purchase because he cannot see it. I hope that this degree of socialistic thinking never destroys the possibility of competition or the possibility of retaining initiative in a country like Australia which has progressed extremely well under the national economy as it now stands. Why strain the public sector with expenditure that the private sector can undertake? Why reap greater taxes when there is no need to do so? Why over-govern unless there is a death wish of mediocrity? On those issues the future of this nation will depend. On those issues the future of the present Government of Australia will also depend. 
Let us look at the factual sides of one or two of the Government's policies which have been introduced in the very short period that it has been in office. Let us look at the national health scheme. By attempting the old tactic of divide and rule and trying to centralise the debate on doctors' salaries - that of course is not the issue - this Government has brought about a demoralised spirit in the medical fraternity today. Many doctors in the community suddenly are asking: 'Why should we work beyond 5.30 p.m.? What is the purpose of it?' My comment is that this is the situation that this Government is trying to create. How can Australia continue to progress if people do not work? Alternatively, how can Australia continue to progress if those who work, no matter how poor or how rich they are, are forced to donate more than they should for the sake of those who do not work? 
On the question of immigration, there were those of us who, as we saw a state of full employment developing within the community, hoped that there would be an increase in the immigration quota to keep cost increases reasonable. We have not had an increase in the immigration quota but we do have overfull employment. Therefore, very shortly, with no fruitful action being taken by this Government there will be a shortage of key personnel in certain jobs. One does not need to be an expert in economics to understand that firms will start to bid for key personnel. This is one of the first signs of a demand inflation that will, I fear, soon hit the economy. 
There is a debacle in the mining industry. No search is being, carried out by the mineral industry in Australia. The search for petroleum has virtually ceased. The Strangler has just about strangled all initiative in this direction and I think that this is appreciated by all honourable members. During the last 6 months I have had many representations from people in the mining industry wondering where to go and what to do in order to improve not only the resource situation for our own domestic needs now and in the future but also our export potential. Other honourable members who have received similar representations will know that what I say is true. We now have a resources diplomacy. This is the old 'banana republic' bit - try to run the world market short of one mineral or another, much as the Arab nations are attempting to do with fuel at present. It is much the same situation as that which caused the Japanese to erupt because they were not allowed to buy resources prior to World War II. This is the antiquated situation which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  attempted to advance in Mexico when he tried to get the mineral nations together to control the supply of minerals to the world market in order to get an increase in price. Within limits this sort of thing has happened traditionally for years, but one would hardly expect the leader of a nation to go against all the lessons in history, to resort to the tactics of 30 years ago, and adopt banana republic antics in relation to Australia's trading policy. In the motor car industry we have seen the first step in the Government's intention to force private motorists off the road. I do not know which cars should remain on the roads - the big black ministerial cars or semi-trailers. 
That takes up even more of the road because of its length. I do not know where the Government expects this policy to lead. One can understand a socialist State government, such as the one in South Australia, saying: 'Do not build many more freeways'. However, to resort to the tactics of muddling up the previous Government's tariff' policy on the construction of Australian built cars to make sure that no firm gets a proper share of the market and so that no economies of scale can apply at all seems to me the reverse of the proper way to produce cheap cars or good value cars for the Australian people. Let us examine the Government's determination to frighten the public motorist into not using his car. The price of petrol has been increased by 5c a gallon. That is an exorbitant extra charge on the ordinary person in this country. One has always hoped that because Australia is such a big country and there are such huge distances between capital cities, air transport rates at least would be kept low in order to enable people to commute sensibly. I have always hoped, for the same reason, that people would be able to use Holden motor cars to visit their relatives once a year, even if they live in Perth and their relatives live in Brisbane. Evidently this is not to be the case. We are to be subject to this ethos of mediocrity designed to drag all people down and to apply to Big Brother before being allowed to do anything. One sees signs of this situation in the early days of this socialist Government. 
I refer now to the environment. I wonder what environmentalists are saying today about the site chosen by the Government for the new Sydney international airport. The site chosen is in the middle of an area which is loved by the people of Sydney and is used as a source of recreation.. What has happened to Lake Pedder, in spite of the fine words of the Prime Minister that he would look into the matter and try to do something about it? The people have been let down. From the way this Government is behaving one does not see much hope for the environment. 
Let us consider costs of production resulting from the increase of 5c a gallon in the cost of petrol. We have not yet seen the beginning of increases in costs right across the board from this irresponsible step which is aimed at driving motorists off the road. If children go to the Royal Easter Show in Sydney they will find great increases in the price of goods. The cost of production of almost all goods is affected by such increases in the inputs of those costs. The most important increase - whether one is a main street trader, is a salesman, is employed in primary industry, or lives at Bourke or back of Bourke or comes from Brisbane - is the cost of fuel. In due course this Government will regret the fact that as a deliberate policy it sought to do these things across the board. In generally adding to increased pressures on costs it helps not one bit in trying to keep price increases to a reasonable level. Many previous speakers have spelt these facts out clearly. 
Another matter to which I refer concerns me personally because not long ago I engaged in a debate with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  at the University of Adelaide. He left no doubt in the minds of those present that the Government would make tax deductible all donations to voluntary agencies concerned with overseas aid. In this Budget there is no mention of such a proposal. I have no intention of repeating many of the good points made by a colleague in the Country Party who spoke a short while ago but, because of my personal experience, I cannot help commenting on the voluntary aid organisations. Those organisations were assured that they would get help. Personally I make no bones about the fact that I do not think they should get help by means of having donations to them made tax deductible, but that is another matter. 
One could comment at length on various matters, including regional development. How does an increase in telephone rentals from $27 to $55 in some instances help regional development? Monarto, in South Australia, is to receive $1.2m whereas the proposed AlburyWodonga complex will receive $33. 2m. Will such provision help decentralisation in South Australia? What about the Cities Commission, as it is now called, channelling moneys into urban areas and not into areas like Monarto? What about the petrol subsidy that was aimed at levelling the cost of petrol across the nation? The Government has discontinued that proposal. Do any of the Government's proposals aid regional development? I doubt whether the Government has any sincere aim of trying to transfer population from city centres to regional areas. All I can say is that this Budget ensures that this will not happen. 
The Leader of House  (Mr Daly)  who, by self-confession, has said that his time is limited, has once again tried to suggest to honourable members that their seats can be held on 17 per cent or 21 per cent of the vote. If I might instruct the Leader of the House, who is meant to be in charge of these matters, the whole idea is that under the preferential voting system nobody is elected until he has gained 50 per cent of the vote. If the Leader of the House had his way, he would have the first past the post system of voting. Under that system people would be elected left, right and centre without receiving 50 per cent of the vote, so let us not be carried away with this nonsense that he goes on with every time there is a crowd in the gallery during school holidays. At least they get some fun, even if we are getting a bit bored by it all. We on this side of the House do not worry about a redistribution. We are anxious to see the colour of the Government's money. Is it or is it not game to go to the people? A good many people on this side of the House itch for that to occur. It is of no earthly use the Leader of the House shouting to bolster his own confidence. That seems to be the only way in which he can generate force. We are ready when he is, and we are not necessarily waiting for any redistribution to occur. 
I rose tonight to discuss a very important matter affecting my electorate, that is, the increase in excise duty on brandy. This increase constitutes a most sectional, vicious attack on the grape growing industry. In order to convince, if I can, those on the Government side who are prepared to listen, might I point out that the amount of money the Government now intends to take from the growers of grapes going into the production of brandy under new legislation that is yet to come down, is$794 a ton. The only person who wins under these circumstances is the Treasurer  (Mr 
Crean). At the same time, if I might strike a comparison, if those grapes went for wine making purposes they would not attract any duty. I think I can be forgiven in those circumstances for pointing out to the House that a sectional, vicious attack has been made on that one section of the grape growing industry. It will hit, in particular, South Australia where 91 per cent of the brandy of the nation is produced. From that State it will hit primarily the Riverland area of my electorate and the cooperatives, not the big internationally owned distilleries, which the farmers themselves operate there. It will hit Renmark, Loxton, Berri, Waikerie, the proprietaries of Mildara in the electorate of one of my Country Party colleagues close to Mildura, and Angove's Pty Ltd at Renmark. It will affect one winery in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and it will affect 2 more co-operatives and several proprietaries in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes). 
The industry has been disadvantaged in four major ways. First of all, with other Australian produced spirits, it has suffered an increase in sales tax; secondly, it has suffered the big increase in excise duty to which I have referred tonight; thirdly, it has had the traditional method of valuation which copes with the peculiarities of the brandy industry altered to its disadvantage, and fourthly, the proprietary firms, contrary to the co-operatives, have suffered a reasonably steep increase in private company tax. I intend in a minute or two to quote some figures from a typical private firm to show the House how it has been disadvantaged. I am not at this stage quoting industry figures. It has not yet been able to compile the degree of hardship. But I think it is fair that, in case the Treasurer or the Government has not seen the degree of hardship this has caused, I should take advantage of putting one or two of these facts before them. 
Firstly I wish to deal with the duty increase. The pre-rise rate of duty per litre of alcohol was$3 08. The post-rise rate is $6, which gives a percentage rise of 94.8 per cent. The pre-rise sales tax was $1.15. The post-rise level of sales tax is $1.65, which represents a percentage increase of 43.5 per cent. This gives a total increase of both sales tax and duty of 80.9 per cent. If we take this as a typical firm, the liability would go up from $3.4m to $6.4m - approximately an increase of $3,209,831. 
This calculation is based on the average stock of spirit held to make brandy. This stock is held in a good average proprietary where 3 star brandy is stored for a period of between 3 and 4 years. Therefore there is $3.2m increase for one private company to find. The amount of duty to be paid each year will increase from S750.00O in round terms to 31,471,000, an increase of $750,000 in round terms. 
 Indeed they are. The cost of financing this, based on a 6-week-out period, is $13,500 for interest alone. The capital sum must be raised- The biggest producer of brandy in Australia today tells me that he needs S5.5m in the next 3 years in order to remain in a liquid state. 
 He will want something a bit better than a bounce from the honourable member's area. The smallest firm, whose figures I am quoting tonight, needs $1.5m in the next 2 years to remain solvent. The percentage of the price that the Government now takes from brandy is 62.4 per cent. 
 I suppose that there is an element of truth in that too. They are socking more than the sick, more than just the users of medicinal brandy. This firm feels that within a period of years it will have 2 alternatives. I remind the House that I am talking about a major producer of brandy in this nation. This firm can either go broke or it can sell. If the firm is sold it will almost certainly have to sell to an overseas firm. What would the Government do next? I suppose that it would try to stop a foreign investor taking over the company. Then where would be the equity of the person who has struggled all his life to set up a first class firm of this nature? 
I believe that there are areas in which the Treasury has not yet made up its mind firmly about some of the problems concerning the collection of this tax which will be phased in. I am on my feet tonight to put to the Treasurer - and I believe that someone on my behalf let him know that I was going to speak on this subject tonight - as forcibly as I can an argument to stop this legislation coming before the House until such time as the full implications are apparent to everybody. I believe that the advice which perhaps the Treasurer has had has not sensed the enormity of the problem that is now foisted on the shoulders of the brandy industry. I will have another occasion on which I can be more factual and more statistical about this matter. But I thank the House for allowing me to put this sad tale of woe on behalf of the brandy industry tonight. 
I do not think one needs to take too seriously the attempts by the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan)  to patch up what he himself describes as the confusion existing in the rural community. He blames us for it. I suggest quite seriously that he should properly blame the Budget for confusion. I think some of the confusion is being overcome rapidly. 
Tonight I would like briefly to touch on one topic in terms of increased costs of production that affect every taxpayer, whether he be rural or non-rural. I wish to touch on the matter of the increased excise duty on motor spirit. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget for 1973-74 said that the Government has decided to raise the bulk of the additional revenue it requires by increasing duty on a range of items, the most important perhaps being motor spirit but also including aviation gas, aviation turbine fuel and diesel fuel. The increase is to be 5c gallon in each case, except for diesel fuel which will suffer an increase that is fractionally lower. These revenue raising increases will raise an estimated SI 30m for the remainder of this year and $157m in a full year. The Government has also announced that under the petroleum products prices stabilisation scheme the maximum price will be increased from 3.3c gallon above city prices to 5c gallon. This, in effect, will mean an increase of 6.7c a gallon for fuel in non-metropolitan areas. I believe that this increased cost will be not absorbed but passed on to the consumer. The increased tax on petrol etc. will lead to the primary producer having to pay considerably more for his fuel, but in most cases not being guaranteed any comparable rise in the price for his product. This will not necessarily send a farmer bankrupt. For the sake of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro I am not saying that this could be so but I think even he will agree that it certainly will add to the hardship that the farmer faces in poor periods when prices are not as high as they might otherwise be. 
I now wish to refer further to higher petroleum taxes and farm costs. 
The consumption-distribution pattern of motor spirits for metropolitan and other areas is in the ratio of 4:1. For automotive distillate the suggested ratio is in the order of 5:3. Statistics indicate that national motor spirit consumption was 2,187j8 million gallons hi 1969-70; for automotive distillates the consumption was 737.1 million gallons. These figures come from the Australian petroleum statistics for the fiscal year 1969-70 as published by the Department of National Development. Co-efficients of the input-output table of the Australian economy constructed by researchers at Monash University indicate that 8.2 per cent of all petroleum products were consumed in farm business activities in 1967- 68. In the 1973-74 Budget, the Treasurer increased the rate of duty on motor spirits and diesel fuels by 5c per gallon. As can be seen from the following table it is estimated that this increase in duty will increase farm costs by approximately $12m. I now seek leave to have a table which I have shown to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  incorporated in Hansard. 
Total consumption in non-metropolitan areas in 1969-70 (gallons) . . 437,532,000 276.442^50 
Total faim consumption based on 1967-68 input-output coefficient (gallons).......... 239.841,000 
Increased revenue from farm sector from higher duty on petroleum products . . 811,992,000 
Total non-farm consumption in non-metropolitan areas in 1969-70 (gallons) . . . . 713,974,250 
Increased revenue from non-farm non-metropolitan consumption from petroleum products . . 835,699,000 
These estimates of increased farm costs are similar to those which can be calculated from Budget estimates - to prove the point - of increased revenue. Statistics presented in the Budget Papers indicate that, in a full year, revenue from higher duty on motor spirits and automotivve distillates will be $147.5m. If farm businesses use 8.2 per cent of all usch products, this means that direct farm opreating costs will increase by $12,095,000. 
Increased petroleum product charges will also indirectly affect the farmer via higher transport charges on farm inputs. Statistics in the above table indicate that increased revenue from nonfarm non-metropolitan consumption of motor spirits and automotive distillates will be about $3 6m. It is unlikely that more than 25 per cent of these increased charges- or $9m - can be passed on to the farmer. Therefore, the additional duty of 5c per gallon on motor spirits and automotive distillates is likely to raise farm costs by approximately $20m per annum. 
I think the stuff the honourable member uses is more likely to put people to sleep. The second matter to which I wish to refer is the petroleum product subsidy scheme. This scheme commenced on 1 October 1965. Under the previous Government, subsidies were paid to oil companies to reduce the wholesale price of motor spirit in nonmetropolitan areas to not more than 3.3c per gallon above capital city prices. In the 1973-74 Budget, the margin specified in the scheme was increased by 1.7c to 5c per gallon. This of course represents an onus to those who live in outback areas who have to carry increased prices as a result of the application of sales tax on top of the charge for every article which includes its transport and freight costs as well. 
There are many examples of how this measure can more than undo all the so-called credit items that the honourable member for EdenMonaro mentioned a little while age. In fact, one can say that even my attempt to unravel the effects of petroleum charges now represent only a very minor increase charge to the community as a whole. 
House adjourned  s&amp;  11 P.m 
-Does the Prime Minister agree  that there are large gaps in his economic knowledge, particularly with respect to interest rates? Does he recollect the old Royal Australian Air Force adage that its better to keep your mouth shut and let people wonder if you are a fool than to open it too wide and remove all doubt. 
Very briefly I want partially to back up, possibly for different motives, the remarks made by my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  The position as I understand it now is that we are about to vote on the amendment. If we vote against the amendment, in fact we are left with everything before the word 'That', which does not leave very much. I find myself-- 
I see. 
That is a rather confusing interjection in the circumstances. I want to point out that I am not happy either with the motion that the House has already defeated nor with the proposed amendment. I am going to find myself voting for the retention of the quite stupid situation in which we leave in the words up to 'That'. I am not satisfied that this House has had the proper time to consider and to debate the points that have been made today. It is unfortunate that we in this House are placed in the position where, unless we vote for the amendment now, nothing will be done for 12 months. I am forced into this position, but I offer at this stage to do everything I can to try to re-gear the circumstances along proper lines. The proper lines' will be judged by me. That is the situation in which I find myself. Although perhaps for different reasons, I am entirely on side with the honourable member for Wakefield. 
I take up where my colleague, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  and my friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  left off. These Bills represent disgraceful action on the part of the Government. It is disgraceful in many ways. To start with I refer to an action which is, I think, the most reprehensible of all that I have heard about in recent weeks. I want to refer to the Australian provincial Press, a not unimportant organisation in the life of this country. I heard only today that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has refused to receive a deputation from that body to discuss this very important matter. 
That is what I was assured today. 
I have not had the chance to ask you. 
The Postmaster-General will have the opportunity to answer these things and no doubt he can give an explanation. I was told today by someone from my home State that a request for a deputation to meet the Postmaster-General to discuss these charges levied against country newspapers had been turned down. That is all the information on the subject that I can offer. If by any chance I am incorrect I will apologise but I see no reason to do so on the basis of the information given to me today. 
The honourable member for Corio would not know. He is not interested in the provincial Press; otherwise he would have ascertained the same information that I have. Let us look at what mail is included in category A and what a change from that category to category B would mean. As far as I am aware category A mail includes a whole series of publications but the prime thought behind their inclusion in that category was that they had to be country newspapers or newspapers that sold the majority of their issues to country areas and not to city areas. This is the sort of publication that we get in category A and most honourable members already have heard 2 previous speakers deal with the effects of the change-over from category A to category B later in the year. One can be excused for thinking that this decision is a direct attack on that section of the people and not a general, across-the-board action. Later on I will deal with whether that is a justifiable argument in itself. In the meantime I wish to refer to other publications which will be affected. They include a wide variety of periodicals, newspapers and other publications dealing with the activities of a vast variety of associations and bodies that are important to people throughout Australia. I imagine they include publications by the Royal Automobile Association, the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria, the National Roads and Motorists' Association, and similar organisations in other States. I have heard complaints so far from the Returned Services League that postage on its periodicals has been increased and it will have to cease publication of many of them. I believe there are many country newspapers which also are feeling the pinch. 
I would like to refer to a country newspaper in my State. It is published in the electorate of Grey in the little town of Streaky Bay. Of all the newspapers published to my knowledge in this country this above all others has the highest percentage of posted publications. I understand that 92 per cent of the publications produced by that newspaper have to be posted. I want to refer to this matter because it is serious. I think that there is no other small newspaper in the whole of 
Australia that has to distribute its information over as big an area as the area covered by this publication in Streaky Bay which posts 92 per cent of its publications. Does the Government think that this quite small newpaper will remain solvent when in its case - I think I am correct in individualising with this newspaper - the postage rate which is now about 2c eventually will increase to 11c. This newspaper cannot be compared with newspapers in places such as Mount Barker in my electorate or other large towns in the surrounding area which can distribute their newspapers to the shops by road. Ninety-two per cent of the publications of this newspaper has to be posted to outlying areas. 
The people who live in these outlying areas perhaps do not have the voice in this Parliament that the people in the suburbs have. How else are they to get news? Do they have a town hall or a picture theatre where they can meet? Of course not. The only way in which they can absorb local news is through these types of newspapers. I ask the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  whether he has had a look at that outrageous case. To me it is an outrageous case. If these people have guts enough to go into an area such as Streaky Bay, with due regard to the people who live there, and try to produce a newspaper for the good of the area - no doubt they do it because they want a satisfying occupation of their own - I think it is a poor thing when the Government takes action which can cut right across the possibility of that newspaper being produced in the future. 
There are probably 4 or 5 newspapers in my own area which will be very severely hit by these measures. One in particular comes to mind. There is one little family enterprise that happens to be located at Pinaroo which is near my colleague's electorate in Victoria. After years of travail and hardship and simple living these people built a new newspaper office. It is located in a small area and it is a small newspaper. It posts 52 per cent of its publications. It owners have just invested in a new printing press. I think their operation -must be fairly marginally viable. If we cannot effect some sort of improvement in these sorts of " affairs, that little country newspaper, located in the Lameroo-Pinaroo area, which is at the end of the South Australian railway line, may well go out of business. In other words, that area might not have a newspaper. This is a very serious matter for these out lying electorates, even if it is not for the silvertail area of Redfern. I am sure the House must recognise that this is a matter of very grave concern to those areas and to any of us who represent areas remotely like them. 1 could go on for some time talking about the proportion of newspapers posted as against those which may be distributed by a variety of other means. But I simply say that surely the Minister can see that in those areas where perhaps only 50 per cent of newspapers are posted every effort will be made to get those newspapers delivered by some other means. If ever I have seen a self-defeating purpose it is contained in these measures. I could not help but agree with the honourable member for Moreton who said that there is no possibility of looking at this matter in any other way. The point is that if those newspapers cannot be distributed by car, milk truck, fruit van or by some other means they will have to be posted, and I think that the people in those areas will look at this matter in that light from now on. They will not, if they can possibly help it, use postal facilities at that price level. 
I am sorry I do not have more time to talk on that matter but there is another matter I would like to mention. During the last Parliament the previous Postmaster-General, whom honourable members will recall with pleasure as being a hard working, highly intelligent man, agreed - I was about to say gave way but I think perhaps that is unfair - at long last with a case which I had put forward for 3 years in this House in trying to get some method of helping small country newspapers with the issuing of supplements. Let us stop and consider the importance of supplements. In many ways they came into existence because of the success of the PostmasterGeneral^ Department in the field of household deliveries and because many people felt that this rather unfair taking away of business from country newspapers could be solved only if similar supplements were produced across a wide range of country newspapers to help advertise, shall we say, a sale in a chain store in an area. 
For many years I battled away to see whether there was not some easy way in which to stop treating these supplements as an individual matter. I have been in a country Press office, and I have seen people pushing through 5,000 copies of their newspapers again in order to put an authorised sign on the bottom saying that the supplement was authorised to be produced as a supplement. Not long ago I was completely satisfied to received from  Sir Alan  Hulme a letter in which he said: 
In response to your representations ... in respect of supplements, a review has been made of the present regulations. You will be pleased to learn that I have now given my approval to the principle of permitting a common inscription on advertising pieces and other supplementary material intended for general insertion in a number of newspapers and periodicals. The inscription would read: 'PMG approved supplement No. . . -.' and the numbers will be allocated on application to the Post Office. 
I suppose it is too much to expect that when one government goes out and another government comes in all the promises of the previous government should be honoured. But I must say that I am deeply disappointed to hear that this concession, as far as I can gather, is not to be allowed. I bring to the attention of the House the fact that if these country newspapers are to exist they have to take advantage of efficiency and of economy of scale. They have to try to get added productivity in order to meet the outrageous situation that the Government is trying to create tonight. As far as I can gather - and I hope that I can be corrected on this - country newspapers are not to be allowed the facility to which I have just referred in reading from the letter from  Sir Alan  Hulme. 
I once again say that if these country newspapers are going to exist, surely the Government will not mind helping them to get efficiency and economy of scale by production over a wide area, even if it is on a supplement inserted in the middle of a small country newspaper. To deny this is to deny all reason. Under this measure tonight we are putting an enormous load on country newspapers. One honourable member has said that it is a case of direct political bias. I hope that that is not so. I hope that the Government can see the sense in helping these people to be efficient. The Government wants shoving out of office tomorrow if it insists on its stupid behaviour and its stupid pricing policy of increasing costs to the very people whom it should be trying to help. It is obvious that this must be so in all reason. 
Time moves on and honourable members on this side of the House are confining their remarks- in order to allow as many speakers as possible to take part in this debate. So I will cease with these words: The Australian people are one people. They are not country people as against urban people or city people as against river people or the Australian Labor Party as against the Australian Country Party. In important matters they are one people. I can follow the efforts of the PostmasterGeneral in this case to equate these things as he sees it, but I ask him: Does his Government, for instance, see fit, rightly, to give extra help to Aborigines? Does he see fit, quite rightly to give extra help to the sick, the elderly and the deprived? But he does not, evidently, see fit to give extra help to these people in outlying areas. As the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  has entered the chamber, I would refer him to my remarks about Streaky Bay and to the peculiar circumstances of the newspaper in that area. I will lend what force I can to the proposition that this Parliament must dismiss immediately this ridiculous increase in charges. We can cope, perhaps, with increased charges for cigarettes and spirits, unpopular though they might make the Government, but no right thinking person will say that no help should be given to people who live so far outback that the country newspaper is the only means of absorbing their local news, by-laws and other matters of importance. 
I seek leave to make a brief personal explanation. 
I will not detain the Committee long. I wish to take the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  up on one point. We on this side of the Committee are trying to help the Government to patch up a discrepancy in this Bill. We have offered a constructive idea by proposing the establishment of a trust fund to protect funds which should be protected and funds that should not be muddled up with general revenue or used for general revenue purposes. The answer by the Minister for Immigration is not acceptable to me. Everybody knows that the AuditorGeneral examines accounts at the end of a trading year and draws to the attention of Parliament any discrepancies that are found in the use of funds. We are suggesting a remedy to overcome the problem. The Minister is being quite negative in saying that if a mistake occurs the Auditor-General no doubt will draw it to the attention of Parliament. We are trying to stop the mistake occurring. The Minister merely said: 'If a mistake occurs we will be told about it'. This is not the point. 
The Minister's reply is not acceptable in any form of logic. Without wishing to transgress on the generosity of the Committee or on the speeches that have been made, I say that the whole of this is totally unacceptable to myself, to members of the Opposition and to members of the rural community. It is way out of court. The Bill is riddled with inefficiency, inexcusable statements and a lack of information. I think the Minister would do well to seek the permission of the Committee at this stage to report progress and to look at the whole matter again. 
Question put: 
That the new clauses proposed to be inserted  (Mr Sinclair's amendment)  be so inserted. 
I think any government has to be very careful about increasing at Budget time or at any other time charges that are complementary to the whole process of production in a nation. I think most of the honourable members who have been members of this House for a while know that charges have to be raised from time to time in order to increase the capacity of the nation to provide better schooling, new schools, new hospitals and various other things, but the across the board increase of 5c in the excise on petrol and the latest move to withdraw the petroleum products subsidy scheme in a most insidious manner is a different thing altogether. It will have a drastic effect upon the people of Australia. The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  was the first  speaker  in this debate to draw attention to the tremendous increase there will be in the cost of goods coming to the city from country areas and of raw material being back-loaded to the country. These increased costs will be of great importance to general consumers throughout Australia. 
I have had some work done for me by the Parliamentary Library but as yet I have not finished assessing it. However, it appears that the cost to the consumer will be in the region of $50m a year and to the primary sector of the economy about $20m a year. One ponders whether the reason for the Government introducing this measure and imposing an increased excise on fuel is not a lot deeper than merely trying to raise revenue. One ponders whether it is a move to try to drive the public motorist off the road and to make the future Australian a person who catches a public bus to the beach on Saturdays and public transport to work during the week. 
I join with those honourable members who have preceded me in saying how distressed the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  must be. He introduced the original legislation in 1965. He has had to sit through this debate and watch his legislation's at least partial dismemberment. The idea of the government of 1965 - I cannot see that there should be any other line of reasoning today - was to try to help the development of this nation, particularly in areas outside the cities. Unquestionably, as the honourable member for Farrer said, this legislation helped significantly in this form of development. The margin in the wholesale price - originally it was 4d or 3.3c a gallon - will now become 5c. When this margin is added to the 5c increase in excise, this will mean that in isolated areas of Australia petrol will increase in price by 10c a gallon. That in itself is bad enough, as I have tried to explain, but I do not think enough speakers have drawn attention to the proportional increase that will apply to kerosene, distillate, aviation fuel and other fuels that are becoming more important in many isolated areas. 
In the electorate of Barker in South Australia is an island called Kangaroo Island. This is an area I used to represent when I was a member of the State Parliament Kingscote, which is the virtual capital of Kangaroo Island, enjoyed a subsidy of 2.4c a gallon, Parndana a subsidy of 4.3c and Penneshaw a subsidy of 4c. The advantage that those areas enjoyed as a result of that subsidy will now disappear to the extent that I previously mentioned. This is the sort of problem with which we are confronted. In my own electorate, at the Renmark aerodrome aviation fuel costs will be hit unduly by this legislation. Power kerosene and distillate prices also will rise. 
I do not intend to say more at this stage. I think there has been a fair degree of repetition in many of the speeches we have heard. I join with other honourable members in objecting to legislation, which I think has been farseeing and important to the nation, being partially, and perhaps completely in the future if one can believe the Coombs report, done away with to the disadvantage of all Australians. I simply voice my protest and also my hope that the Government has no further unpleasant shocks in store for those who invest their savings in areas outside the major capital cities. 
Has the Prime Minister received a telegram from the Leader of the 
Opposition in South Australia,  Dr Eastick,  requesting an immediate meeting of Premiers and Leaders of Oppositions throughout the nation to contrive a concerted attack on economic difficulties including inflation? Does the message stress the urgency of the request? What does the Prime Minister intend to do about the request and the problem it concerns, other than hedge about the matter? 
I trust that the Committee will forgive me if I do not join in the solicitations and wishes of goodwill passed on by the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  to my friend the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I think I would prefer to wait until the next 7 weeks are over before I comment in any shape or form about that honourable gentleman. My purpose in rising tonight is to talk about the immensity of the job that Parliament has to do today. I do not think it is properly realised outside the Parliament or, to put it another way, by the community at large. Perhaps the biggest single factor working to the detriment of Parliament will historically prove to be that the people of Australia did not pass the referendum dealing with the breaking of the nexus. I can understand small States feeling that the equality of representation that they have in the other place might suffer and that a change in the power base would not be so good for that State. But the big problem that the people of Australia have posed for us - I am sure that honourable members on both sides of the chamber can see what I am trying to drive at - is the impossibility of continuing our progress and evolution towards a properly specialised form of division of powers, in other words, the committee system, without the complement to mount properly an efficient exercise. I think that parliaments of tomorrow will be forced to consider this problem more seriously than perhaps we need to tonight. 1 think that all honourable members, particularly many of those who came into this place at the beginning of the new Parliament, have suddenly been pulled up with a jolt when they have realised that they do not have dinner in the dining room at night sometimes for 3 or 4 weeks because they are working flat out on a committee in some committee room. I am a little immune from the committee system because of my present somewhat extraneous job of assistant Liberal Party Whip. I think it proper that members from both sides of the chamber should try to explain to the people of Australia that there are some members who cannot have &gt;a meal in the parliamentary dining room from one week to the next. One of my present tasks is to try to keep some of the executive members of my Party in attendance in the House. Similarly the Government must try to have a Minister in attendance whenever the House is sitting. Frankly, on many occasions such members are not available. If a party has a member away at an International Monetary Fund conference or at an important inter-parliamentary conference the reservoir of members remaining from whom additional help can be obtained to perform duties to keep the Parliament functioning as a forum is limited. I suggest to the Committee that the people of Australia, probably voting the way they did not mean to vote, in many instances voted against, as they thought- 
I suggest that the honourable member for Adelaide would not know how his constituents voted because he is too busy. He typifies one of the problem areas upon which I am trying to elaborate. He is trying unsuccessfully at present to make an impossible Committee work. This must be absorbing a tremendous amount of his time because he is nothing if not a sincere worker at his job.  His  electorate suffers because of his task and, because he is involved in this work, no doubt his Party is concerned that he is not available to take his place in other forums. I hope that I am not being unkind to the honourable member for Adelaide in suggesting that he has an almost impossible task in trying to make function something that cannot function successfully. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  referred to the division of power within the Parliament and, indeed, within the Party system. This is a subject which is most important to the future of this Parliament. I endorse many of his remarks. I also had the opportunity to spend some time in the House of Commons. I spent considerable time with the Permanent Secretary of the Whips Office. This man was a permanent civil servant. He was a most interesting character. In passing, I might suggest to the Leader of the House that one day this man should be brought to Australia to help us evolve better techniques for the administration of the Parliament similar to those applying in the House of Commons. 
This House is faced with an immense problem. Australia certainly is over-governed, although not in the national forum. Australia is over-governed in other forums about which I need not be too abusive now. We badly need competent people. It is not impossible to visualise voters in outlying areas and semioutlying areas, like the electorate of Angas, in future saying to their representative: 'We have faith in you. You are elected. You must go to Canberra to represent us. Good-bye, old fellow, we hope to see you again about Christmas time'. This is the way the job of a member of the national forum is gradually shaping up. At a time like this when members from both sides are getting together and talking with some sincerity about the future of the institution in which they believe I do not think it proper to try to pick too many holes in the Party basis. However, I shall refer to one matter. At present because of the rule which provides for the House to rise at 11 p.m. each night - a procedure which suits the older members who are able to get to bed shortly after 11 o'clock at night - the Parliament is faced with the problem of insufficient time in which to conduct the business of the House. In future I think consideration must be given to 2 possibilities. Firstly, those who represent wider areas must have some means of getting into their electorates to meet and talk with their constituents about problems that arise in those electorates or, secondly, there must be more members of the Parliament. As I see the present situation, perhaps partly because of the Government and partly because of the enormous growth of parliamentary business, the House will be sitting for a considerable part of the year to the detriment not only of the system, with which I have already dealt, but also of the people we aim to represent. I do not know of any easy answer to this problem. 
Eventually I think that regional representatives or local government officials must assume more power than they have at present. Members of State parliaments possibly will have to absorb more of the hack work, if I may put it that way. Possibly they will have to deal with questions concerning social services - a matter that presently bedevils many honourable members and occupies an extraordinary amount of time. Possibly in future such matters will be referred from the other 2 levels of government to Federal members in Canberra who will find the answers and send them back. I will deeply deprecate the day when this situation arises because I believe it is essential for members of the Parliament, somehow or other, to remain in touch with people at the grass roots level. However, I can see the other side of the problem. When I and other honourable members are old and have left this place I am sure our successors will be obliged to remain in Canberra for lengthy periods each year. They will have a tremendous problem in keeping in touch with their electorates. They will have greatly increased functions to perform and heavy burdens with which to deal in the committee system and in the general administration of the House. 
On Friday, 14 September, in the South Australian town of Berri in my electorate a meeting was called by the canning fruit growers of South Australia. All major political party leaders, both State and Federal, were invited. The Federal Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the Federal Leader of Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the State Leader of the Opposition,  Dr Eastick,  apologised for not attending personally. They sent to that meeting members of Parliament as their personal delegates. The 500 growers were angered by the fact that no representative of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was present and that there was no representative of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  within whose personal responsibility this matter lies. 
None at all. Every person who was present at that meeting was disappointed and some were disgusted at the refusal of the governments, both State and Federal, to be represented at this vital, crucial meeting of 500 soft fruit growers representing over half the entire number of fruit growers in South Australia. Those men were there because they felt their entire future - the future of their farms, the future of their families, their lives and their lifetime investment - was in doubt. The meeting was chaired by the Mayor of Berri. He also expressed disappointment at the nonattendance of government representatives because this matter concerned the district. The packing sheds and the canneries in that area, which is part of the important canning fruit industry of South Australia, are also in a state of jeopardy. 
I will tell the House why this meeting was called. Perhaps the easiest way of dealing with this problem is to refer to the industry as a whole. The problem affects the Leeton cannery in the electorate of Riverina. It affects the Riverland cannery in the electorate of Angas. Unquestionably it affects canneries in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who I gather is to say a few words on his own behalf later in this debate. This industry has persisted over many years and has. earned untold wealth for this nation. At this time the industry is in a state of extreme financial difficulty due primarily to reasons which are not the fault of the industry. I refer firstly, to the series of currency realignments and, secondly, to a series of up-valuations of the Australian currency. Those actions have made this export orientated industry feel the pinch to a very large degree. I have a table which I would like incorporated in Hansard. Unfortunately I have not had time to show it to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is seated at the table. I now show it to him. It deals purely with the fall-off in growers incomes and nothing more than that. 
If I do not watch out the honourable member for Hindmarsh might take my mind off the job which I have set myself to do. It was a good try, but I hope he will give me leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 
I do not know whether I am in order in speaking to this clause. I do so at your discretion,  Mr Chairman.  I ask the Postmaster-General whether he has had a chance to look at the matter I brought up during the second reading debate on the original Bill in which I asked a question on authorised supplements in country newspapers and in relation to the efficient operations of country newspapers. I believe that he did state that any Postmaster-General could take ministerial action in relation to this matter, but I do not believe that he ever said whether he was prepared to take this action. 
Having been in this Parliament for some years, I can think of many dull and desultory debates on the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department and other similar matters. But never before in my memory has there been anything quite so contentious as the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department with which we are dealing tonight. Frankly I do not know where to start, and many other honourable members must feel the same. We do not know whether to start with the fact that the personal performance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has put Australia in such serious straitswith many of our allies overseas. We do not know whetherto start with the size of his staff and the salaries he pays them or with the numbers of staff and salaries he has allowed to Ministers in the Whitlam Government. We do not know whether to start with the dissatisfaction in respect of the Australian Council for the Arts or the numerous letters that all Oppositio n members have had sent to them complaining bitterly about the bad treatment being handed out to people, whether they be writers of books, painters of portraits or concerned with any other side of the arts. 
Furthermore I think this is the first time we have had a chance to discuss the philosophy behind aid to the arts in the broad sense of the word, the philosophy behind the purchase of a painting for$US2m in round figures, indeed what this philosophy aims to do, what it aims to achieve, whether it goes with the lessons of history or whether it goes against the lessons of history on the basis that Dickens, for instance, was popular at the grass roots level through 'Pickwick Papers' and that set the seal on what amounted to national artistic aspirations and what have you. But I do not have time to discuss all these things, in the first 10 minutes, at any rate, in the debate on the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department tonight. 
I wish to commence on a mildly provocative note by getting back once again to an appalling example of the Prime Minister's personal performance. He wrote to the Premier of South Australia, the driest State in this Commonwealth, whose entire lifeline is the River Murray system and the water the 
 State can glean from it, and suggested originally that work on the Dartmouth Dam should be curtailed. As his letter went on he used other phrases such as 'delay in construction', 'wishes to delay the building of and 'we must defer contracts'. I have not brought along with me tonight documentation of the reaction to this letter by both the Premier and the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia, but it was right down the line and it left no shadow of doubt that there was one Labor Premier who would not have a bar of going against contracts drawn up to protect the water requirements of people who live in houses in Adelaide and of blockers who grow fruit for the dried fruit and canned fruit industries and who are in a rather parlous state in South Australia. It did nothing to appease the people of Victoria, many of whom I gather had bought land to grow further crops under irrigation and who required extra water. It did nothing for the other signatory to the River Murray Agreement, New South Wales, which reacted as the other States did. It pointed out that it would not have a bar of the suggestion by the Prime Minister of the country to cut off future water assurance for those States. 
I come now to my second point and refer to another small matter of great interest to the Riverland area of my electorate of Angas - the production of brandy. This will not be the first time that this chamber has heard protestations at the critical taxation measures which are being imposed on this wine producing industry by the Government. I suppose that the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who is sitting at the table, might object if I were to say that the taxes imposed by the Government are worse than those introduced by the previous Government. If the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  were present he probably would say: 'Ah, you are going back on your word and what you said before'. However to indicate the seriousness of this matter I point out that I did not make the statement to which I have referred. It was made this afternoon by the South Australian Premier who said that the taxes on the wine industry brought down by the Whitlam Government were worse than those imposed under the wine excise by the previous Government. I do not know that I would have been so moderate in my comments because the information used by the South Australian Premier does not back up the exact figures that I have been able to deduce in relation to this matter. 1 suppose that the South Australian Premier has scant regard for the exactness of statistical information but he certainly disowns the action of the Prime Minister and his Government in relation to the 2 factors I have mentioned so far. 
After saying that the taxes on the wine industry were worse than those imposed by the previous Government the South Australian Premier went on to point out that many efficient, and some of the better known, wineries in South Australia could go broke. He pointed out that South Australia produces 99 per cent of Australia's brandy requirements. This is a situation at which we should be looking in our consideration of the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department. We should be examining the performance of the Government, yet we get a miserable 10 minutes in which to debate such matters. Of course, it would not surprise me if, in line with past performances, this debate were gagged later, although naturally all honourable members hope it will not be. 
Let us consider one or two other matters. I would not be stupid enough to stand in this chamber and suggest that it is a completely derelict attitude to buy high priced paintings from overseas in order to set up an art gallery in this national capital of Canberra. I would not be so narrow minded as to say that, but can people be blamed for questioning such a purchase when the cost of a single painting was more than the requirement of South Australia or of this Government for capital to build the Dartmouth Dam? Can people be blamed for comparing the cost of safeguarding the future water requirements of more than one million people with the expenditure on one flaming painting? 
In my more sane and broadminded moments I would admit that I see merit in adopting sensible practices to encourage people to take a more intelligent interest in the arts, in the general sense of the meaning of that word, but I do not know that the experts in Australia, from  Mr Mollison  downwards, are not good enough. I could mention numerous people who over the years have purchased paintings for $100, $500 or $1,000 and who in a few years have gained in value five times that capital expenditure through having the capacity to select artists who will be recognised as significant in the Australian national situation. These remarks apply to authors and others engaged in other forms of art. I do not want to be regarded as parochial or as suggesting that our artists should not be equated with overseas artists. I believe that in the past we have had the tendency to appreciate in value Australian works of art which, in many instances, would not be of equivalent value to an overseas product. I believe that this is a most important error that has been made in Australia but I do not want to be taken as suggesting other than that. Nevertheless the point about any Government encouragement in the field of the arts is that one must look for someone whose appeal to the population at large is such that they can identify the form of art of that person, whether it be Dame Nellie Melba, Gladys Moncrieff, Roy Rene, or, indeed, the Dobells, the Sydney Nolans and the rest that come to mind. All of those people had a capacity to thoroughly intrigue the people of Australia. That is the only way in which one will encourage art. That is also the only way in which one will encourage people to take a broad interest in these matters and help to promote the artists and accomplished people in whom the people of Australia can take pride. I do not know whether the people of Australia will be prepared to stand and revere a painting that was painted by the dropping of hunks of paint from a palette onto a piece of cardboard a storey below such as Blue Poles. The Government may be adopting the right course of action but I suspect that the people of Australia do not think that is the right way to attract people to galleries and the proper way to enable people to achieve an appreciation of art. 
Official statistics show that since 1964 the average weekly earnings rate has increased by 68 per cent. The same statistics show that the consumer price index has increased during that period by 30.2 per cent and productivity has increased by 16.7 per cent. In putting these figures to my friend the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  I know he will appreciate that I am blaming neither one government nor the other. These are facts with which any government must come face to face. I am quite certain that when reliable statistics on a yearly basis are next available to the House they will show an increased trend in the rate of weekly earnings. I think they will show an increased trend in the consumer price index. I am not quite so sure what they will show in terms of productivity. 
I wish to apply myself tonight to the argument as it concerns industries, whether they be small businesses, small private processing works, such as the Murray Bridge Meat Pty Ltd which is in my electorate, or other businesses. "I wish to apply these figures to the impossible squeeze that has been placed on industries that do take a risk with their investment. Although my argument will apply mainly in regard to non-capital city areas, I think there is no reason why the points that I wish to deal with do not apply equally to the small corner storekeeper, the small private engineering works or a variety of small businesses throughout the nation. I think it is accepted by the Committee that these huge increases in the average weekly earning rate will produce a vastly increased revenue situation this year for the Treasurer. All I suggest is that instead of doing in so many areas those things which were portrayed in the recent Budget Speech, the Treasurer should give careful consideration to those people and those collections of people, such as co-operatives in country towns and other areas, with a view to ensuring their future existence. It is patently obvious to me that many such industries will not see the light of day in the future. I cannot quote from previous speeches made by the Treasurer, but I can remember the Treasurer himself sitting at the table when he was in opposition and pointing to the very problem which I am raising tonight, that is, the future survival of the small businesses, the small family businesses and the small co-operatives throughout the length and breadth of the land. 
A study of the figures I mentioned makes one thing patently obvious. If this country is going to have referenda it needs to have a referendum to ascertain the opinion of these people in terms of an incomes policy. I doubt whether I shall be supporting that line of thought, but at least the productivity figures and the increase in the average weekly earning rate point to the fact that no economy can stand up to undue increases in wages and in prices. This concerns not only those on fixed incomes. It affects not only those who perhaps are in receipt of a small income from superannuation and who have saved their money. Everyone wants to see some value in his savings or some equity in his business. This is the problem that is making life so extraordinarily difficult for many of the industries that I aim to represent in the Federal seat of Angas. Before I deal with any of them as individual industries I say to the Treasurer that I am most appreciative of his attitude towards the people whom I aim to represent in relation to the brandy interests and the wineries. They feel that they will suffer very considerably - and that is a modest statement - in relation to the re-allocation of stocks held. There are historic reasons for that, but I will not go into them now because this is not the time to debate that issue. However, there will emerge at a later time historic reasons why these things have been done in the past. 
My only point in getting up to speak tonight is to say quite clearly that any extra onus put on these industries would place them in a very difficult position. I refer to the fruit canneries, the dairy processing plants and the cooperatives. If the Minister and the Government must adopt this chip on the shoulder attitude to anyone who makes a profit, surely they have some sympathy for co-operatives - people who have gathered together to put their own resources into co-operative association to try to process their own goods and, perhaps, to market them as well. It is these sorts of industries to which I wish to refer briefly. Let us take one of them. Because of the policies of the previous Government, the citrus industry in recent years has undergone a complete transformation. In a few years since 1966, for instance, the amount of valencia oranges used for juicing purposes has increased. The industry has gone from a fresh case fruit orientated industry to a situation where 60 per cent of the crop is used for juicing purposes. 
The amount of navel oranges used for juicing also has increased, but to a less extent because of the bitterness that occurs when one tries to juice navels and the difficulties in overcoming that problem. The lemon industry has now reached a situation where 60 per cent of the crop is used for juicing. This is a matter that my friend, the Treasurer, has already recognised with his beneficience to the Lemon Board being, as it is, purely a New South Wales organisation. However, we are left with all sorts of difficulties in other areas. For instance, the Treasurer will be well aware of the fact that 99.1 per cent of brandy produced in this country is produced in the State of South Australia. As I had the opportunity of mentioning in the debate on another item of the Estimates a little while ago, tonight's newspaper has produced the illuminating comment by the Premier of South Australia that the Government's tax on the wine industry which, to all intents and purposes, is entirely on the brandy industry, is a worse blow to the industry than anything the previous Government succeeded in doing through wine excise. 
 Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia - the so-called puppet experimental area of the socialist dream, and he is not very happy. 
 If I might be permitted to answer that interjection, I believe that that is a fait accompli, no matter how the Government juggles and attempts to wangle its way out of that one. I put this quite seriously because it is most urgent that if the Federal Government is to take advantage of the huge additional yields that the figures I gave earlier suggest will occur during this 12 months, it should try to channel something back to that productive element of our economy. 
The Government cannot keep cutting the icing off the top of the cake and putting it into other areas if it discourages productivity at that level. Anything approaching this obviously is counter-productive and self defeating. My appeal tonight to the Treasurer in relation to his conduct of the economy of Australa is a very sincere one. It is simply that he must not lose sight of the tremendous wealth generated by people who are keen to work, by people who have small businesses, by co-operative companies or by small country companies whether they be proprietary companies or not. I refer, for instance, to Murray Bridge Meat which has had to sack all of its employees because of demands for vastly increased wages primarily founded on the New South Wales wage structure. That is the message I put up to the Treasurer tonight. I appreciate that the Treasurer has shown me consideration in my appeals on behalf of the brandy industry but he should not lose sight of the fact that he must go much further than a single industry and that productive elements must be encouraged if this is to be a great nation in the future. 
I want to make it quite plain that the negotiations that go on between the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the House bears no relation to the speaker's list that is handed from one Whip's office to the other. On this occasion the Government Whip's office took off the tail end of the speakers' list as handed in by me to that office. For that reason I, who was the next  speaker  on this side, did not rise. I want to make quite clear that if I had spoken obviously the debate would have been gagged. I want to make that plain out of deference to my friends on the same side in the Opposition. 
I want to take advantage of the few minutes that are left to point out a small grievance I have with the Government at the present time. I do so on behalf of the war service land settlers in my electorate. It is a long time now since those who are under budgetary control - some of them have volunteered to be placed in these circumstances and others have been put under budgetary control to help them in the management of their blocks - have received an increase in what is officially referred to as advances for living expenses. The current level of payment is about $2,200 a year. I ask those honourable members to think for themselves: How many of them could look after their wife and family on an advance for living at the rate of $2,200 a year? I have forgotten the exact period of time but I think it is probably 18 months since this amount has been looked at and increased. 
I wrote to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in relation to this matter some time ago. I received a letter from him today. He objects to my using the phrase 'living allowance' and says that I should use the phrase are granted advances for living'. He does so for the simplereason that in the case of these advances for living' all sorts of expenditure items are not brought into account. He lists certain items and comments that the $2,200 a year is meant to cover little more than the cost of food and clothing for 12 months. In his letter the Minister says that expenditure for such items as house rent, medical, hospital and dental expenses and the cost of education and holidays are provided separately. In all fairness to these people I must point out to this House that I think that this is a parsimonious, ridiculous and hard hearted attitude to take. The justification for this sum is included in a paragraph in the letter which says: 
It should be recognised that keeping the advance against living expenses at a reasonably low level is in the settlers' own interests. 
If they can exist. The Minister went on to say: 
By avoiding unnecessary expenditure the equity of each settler is increased year by year. 
We can accept this. But surely to goodness people in this House do not think that it is possible for a man and his wife and family to exist at that level, even for only food and clothing, for 12 months in this day and age. 
That was bad enough but the thing that really made me see red, if I might presume to say so tonight, was the final paragraph which said: 
Since taking over this portfolio, I have bad cause to examine a number of individual cases, involving the manner in which the War Service Land Settlement Scheme is being administered and I am satisfied that settlers are being treated fairly and as sympathetically, as is possible. 
This surely is quite out of all real touch with the cost of living today. Might I again ask the House: How can people reasonably be expected to live at this level in many cases in outlying areas where costs frequently are higher for many goods than they are in the city? I hope that the Minister concerned and the Government will take notice of the fact that there are soldier settlers, people of whom this nation is meant to be proud and whom we are meant to care for, being treated in this fashion. 
In spite of the glowing terms in which this letter points out how much the Government is saving the soldier settlers each year I am quite certain that not many of the settlers concerned think along these lines and it is for that reason that I have risen on their behalf tonight to say that I am dissatisfied with the situation. I beseech the Government to have another look at this matter and to do whatever it can. If ever there was a time when costs were rising at a far more rapid rate than ever before it is now. One would have thought, firstly, that the Minister would have been aware of this fact; secondly, that he would have accepted some of the blame as the Minister of the Crown who is partially, at any rate, responsible for this raging increase in costs to which everybody is subject; and thirdly, that he should do something about it under the particular authority that he possesses by being in charge of the war service land settlement scheme. I hesitate to use these words, but I think it is a scurrilous situation - a situation that conveys no gratitude or consideration to war service land settlers who are subject to these rigid and stringent conditions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the many areas in Australia, such as the Mallee area in the Electoral Division of Angas, which are prone to drought and stock losses, did the previous Government introduce a special depreciation allowance for water conservation and stock water of 100 per cent of the cost of the project in the year in which it occurred. 
If so, what depreciation allowance will be available under the program of the present Government. 
-I rise this morning to support the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I regard it as being a proper, responsible and down to earth suggestion. Before I launch into the proper reasons for that view I should like to remind the House of the key to the thought process of those who will support the Minister. It is outlined in clause (c) of the amendment which states: 
The site for the new House should be on Camp Hill, to permit the use of the first stage in association with the existing building. 
He then went or. approximately to duplicate the original motion put forward by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes). 
The Camp Hill site meets the requirements of size, at 65 acres, of involvement with the rest of the design concept of Canberra, and of access. In the latter 2 aspects it is superior to Capital Hill and in the first, as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  said, is marginally less but nevertheless still quite satisfactory. In the case of directional character the Camp Hill site is markedly superior. It allows a wider variety of design alternatives with a probable saving in capital outlay - in other words, greater economic advantage to the nation, to the Parliament and to the design. Access advantages are similar, and can be studied by all honourable members if they look at the plans visible in King's Hall. The access advantage is marginally greater than that of the present Parliament House and considerably superior to the access to a site on Capital Hill. This could no doubt be overcome but at considerable public expense in planning and constructing perhaps new underground and new arterial routes through to Yarralumla and beyond to the growing new suburbs of Mawson, Farrer, 0*Malley and others. 
The present Parliament House costs the public of Australia $120,000 a year in maintenance and is clearly uneconomic. Both the mover of the motion, the honourable member for Corio, and the seconder have done the right thing, I am sure, in trying to resolve the matter, to hasten it through this House and to seek consultation with another place. I turn now to the internal structure of this place. Some areas can be described only as dungeons and others can be described as pigsties. They are of a quality not acceptable to officers, the staff or the members of Parliament at this time in our history. 
A new parliament house as a total concept is a 10-year project of planning, design and construction and involves an assessed cost of $75m. This is a very large sum to find, even if spread over a decade as I have suggested. I am in favour of the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Develop ment who suggested a partial or gradual construction. This meets the needs of early construction on the one hand and practical reality in regard to funding and finance on the other. 
I return to the problem of the two alternative sites and I want to quote what was said recently by the National Capital Development Commission. The Commission stated:  _ An appropriate way to sum up the studies on visual eminence and symbolism would be to say that Capital Hill is dominant, detached and obvious. Camp Hil] is prominent and associated with other development in the triangle and with other public activities.  [ add that the Commission obviously is falling over itself in an effort to be fair and impartial in that statement. Camp Hill is Burley Griffin's site as part of the whole design of the centre of Canberra. Burley Griffin has brought nothing but lustre to the international fame of this national Capital and to the plea .-e of the people who live here. His dec. .on in this case obviously must stand and I support the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland) 12.40)- I rise to speak in this debate a little confused by the issues related to the 2 sites on offer for the : cation of the new and permanent parliament house. When this debate was initiated a couple of months ago, I was persuaded by the proposition moved by way of amendment by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I certainly can see a lot of merit in that proposal on the basis that construction work would be carried out in stages and that this would reduce greatly some of the hardships faced by members with respect to accommodation. When work on the new building was completed, the present Parliament House building could be demolished and its chambers and the other attractive parts of it incorporated in the new building. I thought that that plan had merit. I think that it still does. 
But I am persuaded to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I do so on the basis that I believe that finally there will not be left behind the Camp Hill site, should the new Parliament House be built on it, a grassy hill. In the original Walter Burley Griffin plan - he was successful in the competition which was held in 1911 for the design of the national capital - Walter Burley Griffin envisaged on the Capital Hill site an administration building and a general hall which was to be called 
The Capitol'. The only support I have for my claim that any building will be erected on Capital Hill is the manner in which the National Capital Development Commission, with the concurrence of the last Administration, emasculated the Capital Hill site. By constructing a ring road around Capital Hill the NCDC frustrated any proposal by the Parliament to put the new parliamentary building on Capital Hill. If we determine to build the new parliament house on Camp Hill - the land available there is limited to 65 acres - I can see the day arriving in a few years when we will find that the grassy knoll which we envisage would remain behind that building will become the site for a general administration building for the czars of the Commonwealth Public Service. As far as I am concerned, that is not on. 
It is most naive for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  to believe that an expression of opinion today will not preclude any initiative by the Commonwealth Public Service to put a building there at some future time. If the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development provided that agreement to the Camp Hill site precluded any building being erected on Capital Hill, I would be persuaded to support him. 
The one point of agreement between honourable members from both sides of the Parliament that seems to have come out of tonight's debate is that more funds should be found for teacher training and perhaps in-service teacher education. Member after member who has spoken, including the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  has supported just this concept. I can say - and no doubt honourable members opposite will laugh with their galahish cackles - that the former Government which comprised members from this side of the Parliament was the first government to give big funds to States for teacher training, and they were not utilised by some States within the first period of time they were allocated. It is no use holding the view that we should always judge our education record year in and year out by the effective expenditure on teacher training, the establishment of State schools, the establishment of libraries or science laboratories, when everybody knows that this Government has done more to ruin the value of the Australian dollar than has ever been done in recent history. It is no use the Government saying that it has a better record than the previous Government had. The criterion by which the nation will judge the education capacity of its children is the effective expenditure of funds. 
Insofar as that is so, I would like for the first time in my life to get on the same side as the honourable member for Chifley because at least he says, although I cannot remember him doing so in debate - I can remember suggesting this from my own humble mouth 2 years ago - that schools should be open to the community to utilise the resources of those schools. I am reminded of the situation that applies in my electorate so often. Primary industry in the early 1950s was fairly affluent. Everybody was building, shall we say, a $15,000 shearing shed in case he had to shear about 60 per cent more sheep than he had ever shorn before. It was a waste of a resource. And so is the educational structure of Australia today a waste of a resource. I can name country towns in my own electorate where the taxpayer has financed magnificent libraries at schools, marvellous libraries, and some of those towns do not have a library for children to use when they leave school. What sort of stupidity is this? 
This is not the first time that it has been suggested that greater use be made of school facilities. Of course it is a non-party matter. I know that I have suggested this many times before. For heavens sake, if this Federal Government wants to give leadership to the State governments, let it insist on what the honourable member for Chifley was saying and open up some of the doors and let people in to use the facilities that the taxpayer, not the Government, is providing. Of course I must talk from the point of view of my own electorate rather than from the point of view of cities that I do not know quite so well. I ask the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who I gather unfortunately cannot be here tonight, to look at some of these suggestions when he comes to study the speeches on the estimates of the Department of Education. The debate on the Estimates in this House and the other place is meant to provide an opportunity for honourable members and Senators to look at the expenditure of departments and to criticise it constructively if possible and to whether better effective expenditure can be made for the sake of the people and the children of this nation. 
The honourable member for Chifley had the unmitigated gall to suggest that private schools should be the first to open their doors. Why should they? Apparently the honourable member regards this as his sole constructive suggestion for the sake of education. I remind him that the taxpayers finance the state schools, so if the Government wants to exercise leadership let it do so by opening the doors of state schools. A fact of life which Government supporters fail to recognise is that, as a result of the making of comparisons and through competition, eventually all schools may open their doors. But the ball is in the court of the honourable member for Chifley and his ilk. He is no longer in Opposition although sometimes he forgets it. Why should people who, by donation and fee, have helped establish and support private schools, and who also, by virtue of their taxation, have provided for the establishment of state schools, give leadership by opening the doors of private schools? In actual fact some private schools have already done so, although the honourable member for Chifley might not realise it. I know of two such instances where this has been done voluntarily by private schools to the great benefit of people outside the structure of those schools, which are located in country areas. Frankly there is not even a second prize for the honourable member's rather stupid and outmoded suggestion. 
I was interested also in the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  who, I point out, won his seat from the Australian Labor Party despite the general swing against the then Government at the last election. I might add that I have some respect for the man he defeated. That person was in Parliament today. I note the fact that he will not be coming again. He has learned his lesson and realises that when one is up against a man of some competence one wants a safer situation than he had. I believe that the defeated member has nominated for the South Australian Upper House. It should be a remarkable situation if it ever comes to pass that he wins a seat in that chamber. However I will leave discussion of that possibility for another day. The point made so well by the honourable member for Sturt this evening was that if a party wants to remain in government it should not discriminate against schools in country areas or private schools in urban areas. If members opposite want to discriminate I suggest that they do the Politics I course again - that is, if they have even done it - because they will learn that if people have wealth the democratic way of coping with that situation is to tax them on that wealth. The Government should patch up its taxation system, because from taxation it can get funds to treat those people who are not so well off in an unequal manner so that their children may have some equality in life when their turn comes. But in all equity, if freedom is to remain in Australia, you should not tax people virtually 3 times. The Government should do what it aims to do - and Lord save us I do not agree with it - through the taxation structure. Having done that and got the funds it should let people choose where to send their children to school. There is no earthly need to hit them twice. 
I would proffer another piece of free advice to members of the Government back benches. We all know it is a matter of grave doubt as to who leads what around which corner at present. If Government supporters see any merit in the situation where Caucus can reverse the policy of Cabinet or reverse the policy that its leaders put forward at election time, I suggest that next time they do not put those leaders in a position where a Minister looks a bloody liar. If he goes to the people and says that no circumstances will be changed- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The expression that the honourable member for Angas used was unparliamentary and I request its withdrawal. 
If that is so,  Dr Jenkins,  I certainly withdraw it. The only point I seek to make is that if the Labor Party goes to the people and its policy speech is delivered by its leaders, members of that Party have a nerve if, after being elected, they do not allow the promises contained therein to be implemented. No matter what term is applied to this circumstance, that is what has happened and that is why people - many of them quite poor, to quote the honourable member for Sturt again - who have worked their hands to the bone to make sure their kids take advantage of a free education system and can go to whatever school they choose, find themselves facing hardship. I say again to the Government: Make the taxation levels different if you must, but let the people of this nation choose what they want to do and use their parental responsibility in bringing up their children in the fashion they consider right and proper. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Last week the honourable gentleman indicated that he did not recall donations from multi-national companies being made to the Australian Labor Party. Is it true, as reported in the 'Age* last October, that 'It's Time' commercials were screened free of charge in Greater Union theatres throughout Australia prior to the December 1972 elections? Is it true that the Greater Union group is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a multi-national corporation? Has he assessed the cost of this apparent donation from an overseas source? Would he care to have the commercials repeated at present? 
There is not a great deal in the statistics and the fundamental information to which the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  has referred with which I should disagree, but I do disagree with the inferences he draws from the statistics. One does not have to look far to know that the capacity for primary industry to expand in the right direction is as a result of its ability to read the market place. The reason for this ability was that the previous Government set an economy in which such individual judgments can flourish. The only mistake the honourable member can make is by interfering with that economy. If the flow of wool to countries that need it is interrupted, the wool industry will be mucked up. It will not be mucked up so long as it is left alone. A key industry that is ticking along should be left alone. I qualify this point by saying that the canned fruit industry is one industry where the Labor Party, with its marvellous capacity to try to over-govern and over-organise everything, should perhaps step in and examine the possibility of a stabilisation scheme for that industry. It is an industry where blocks are small, where the capacity for investment is low and where a stabilisation scheme must be considered seriously by this Government. By and large the only mistake the honourable member could make would be to interfere with industries that are going very well on the basis of an economy already set and on the basis of huge world demand, perhaps of a temporary nature. 
The first point I deal with revolves around the debate that occurred recently on the Meat Export Charge Collection Bill 1973. We heard the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  - I am glad to see he is in the chamber - last night trying to blame the Opposition, or perhaps one party in Opposition, for a muddle over what weights should be considered as the basis for the meat export charges. I remind the honourable member for EdenMonaro - before he is involved in confrontation with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  - to examine page 1253 of Hansard where the honourable member for Riverina is reported as having said: 
That request was that the full financing and the detail of that financing should be set out by the Department of Primary Industry under the authority of the Minister for Primary Industry and sent to them directly so that there can be in all detail validation of what I have put to the Committee. I think that that was a reasonable request. 
That was a request from the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair). Mr Grassby  continued: 
. will have made available to them those full details so that the argument about arithmetic may be resolved. 
So far as I am aware that information has never been supplied to this House. The Opposition took this matter up again and it is no use the honourable member for EdenMonaro trying to argue with his own colleague and saying that proper statistics were not used. If they were not given it was entirely his fault. The previous Government went on shipboard weights of meat, as I understand the argument, where bone in or bone out was classed and it was not a matter of grave error. On these figures - the best figures the Opposition could get from the Government with the full weight of departments to help it gain such figures - the beef industry was saved by the Senate providing for a trust fund for the surplus that the Government, either in an ignorant or purposely arrogant way, would have tried to channel into general revenue. Hansard will prove that the things I am saying are correct. 
I refer now to a speech made the day before yesterday by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Australian Farmers Federation at the Hotel Canberra. I found my remarks on one comment which amused me very much. One can imagine the Prime Minister throwing his hands aside, looking as he is portrayed in the Pugh portrait in King's Hall and saying: 'Can anyone believe the baseless accusation that the Australian Labor Party is an anti-rural Party'. I do not know whether I am in a position to say, in a glorious generalisation, what the rural industries believe, but I believe, and must say, that the Prime Minister's statement is utterly wrong. I say that the rural industries do believe that the Australian Labor Party is an anti rural Party. But I do not know that that is the worst thing about it. The worst thing, it occurs to me, is its complete lack of understanding, whether it is sympathetic or not. 
I want to quote an example to demonstrate this point. Every honourable member from a rural electorate will have a different example and I think they would be equally as telling. I refer to the brandy industry. Honourable members know that there is a tariff report pending on whether the brandy industry should be protected against some artificial - I use that word reservedly - substitutes for brandy, selling under that name, which are coming into this country cheaply. What happens while the Government is waiting for this inquiry and report? It removes the differentiation that the brandy industry always has had over some of its by-product competitors; it increases excise duty on it, as it did with other spirits; it introduces a revaluation of stock - this was done in the income tax amendment Bill which was introduced today - and just for good measure it equalises private company taxation with public company taxation, something that peculiarly hit many of the more famous brandy names producing Australian brandy today. 
No industry can carry such a cold, calculating kick in the guts, if I might refer to it in that way. Surely people are entitled, even under this Government, to invest in their own shops, their own businesses, whether it be in brandy or something else, and to have some chance for a future return and the future viability and economic position of the industry in which they invest. This was one of the most blatant, discriminatory, shocking pieces of legislation that has ever come from this Government which either does not- care or, I rather suspect in this case, does not understand. It left the Premier of South Australia speechless although he heads a government of the same political colour as this Government. He was virtually speechless but about a week later he suddenly found words and what he did not say to the discredit of this Government was nobody's business. I quoted that example relating to the brandy industry in an isolated fashion to prove a point. I do not know whether the Government is anti-rural industries but I do know that it does not understand, and I suspect that it is probably both anti-rural industries and that it does not understand. 
Right, I will tell the honourable member about it. The Premier of South Australia said that the wine excise produced by the previous Government was nothing in comparison with the onus put on the wine industry, quite apart from the brandy industry. That is not my quotation, it is that of a left wing Premier of the honourable member's own political persuasion. That is what he thinks about it. I also would like to quote one more statement before my time expires. It is again from the Prime Minister's speech to the Australian Farmers Federation. Having dealt with the fact that the Government had to remove the sales tax exemption on carbonated soft drinks containing more than 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice, the Prime Minister had this to' say: 
I assure you that while abolishing the exemption the Government is ready to provide funds to assist any sector of the fruit growing industry that may be adversely affected. 
I repeat, 'any sector'. Those on this side of the House will not forget that statement. I think of the canning fruit industry that has been trying now for 6 months to remain solvent while waiting for some devaluation compensation from a year or two ago. I have been trying to get a deputation from the industry to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  for 3 weeks but every time we nearly have it teed up he goes overseas again. He is a nice guy but he must be an awfully ineffectual one. I mention that in passing because I think the Minister needs help. If one or two of the Ministers sitting at the table, the Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  or the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  could take over some of his duties in this regard at least the industries that I aim to represent would not be totally ignored and could perhaps feel that they can present their case and get a certain amount of consideration. 

 - Mr Speaker, if this is the right occasion I should like to comment on this Bill. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I rise today to speak on this Bill which, once again, involves an issue of serious consequence to the fruit industry of this country, and to support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  Before I get too far into this debate, I think it is only right that I should comment on one or two points made in the speech of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  who I thought did as well as he possibly could, considering he had no case to support either in his State or the apple industry in that State. Firstly, by interjection, I said that apple juice is available. The honourable member for Denison said that apple juice was not available. 
 Mr 3  per cent at the table, the Minister for Immigration, says that it was not available. It is available today at every store one cares to go into. The only point I am making is that it is quite obvious that apple juice is not as palatable to Australian people as is orange juice, apricot juice, pineapple juice, mixed juices and a wide variety of other juices. 
The honourable member for Denison was on much safer ground when he talked of promoting the use of apple juice in other forms, apart from cider. In my electorate a very small backyard firm, which is frantically seeking capital to stay in business and to swell its managerial efficiency and what have you, is now producing a carbonated form of apple juice which I believe has very great possibilities in the future. But let us not run away from it. Anyone who stands in this place and says that the future of the apple industry must evolve around whether or not apple juice is saleable to the Australian public frankly needs his head read. I have already congratulated the honourable member for Denison on the effort that he made, given a very poor brief in the first place. Furthermore, I felt that the honourable member for Denison in answering an interjection from one of my colleagues on this side more or less committed himself to support the amendment moved by the Opposition on this occasion. I will not delay the House by rereading the whole amendment but, as the House by now knows, the Opposition's amendment seeks to defer the effect of this Bill until the Government acts, firstly, on currency revaluation compensation for the sectors of the fruit growing industry affected by the withdrawal of the exemption; secondly, on compensation for unsaleable fruit juice derivatives on hand and the losses due to assets becoming redundant; and, thirdly, on assistance for promotion and research into alternative markets for juices. I feel quite certain that the honourable member for Denison has already spoken very much in favour of the third part of the amendment. So, we will look forward later to a demonstration of his sincere desire to help the industry in his State and throughout the nation; we will be watching very carefully the way he votes on this matter. 
This Bill aims to remove the sales tax exemption on non-alcoholic carbonated beverages - I intend to refer to them by the more usual phrase 'soft drinks' from here on - containing 5 per cent or more of Australian fruit juice. I will touch on this matter later because the action by the Government does not encourage the use of Australian fruit juice but might encourage the use of overseas concentrates and this would be contrary to all of its blithe words in regard to other matters that have been debated in this House lately. The concept of a sales tax was introduced not by us but by the Labor Government in 1946 and it has been denied by this Government in 1973. The itemised matter under debate today was introduced by the previous Government in 1957. I would like honourable members, if they can spare a moment, to have a look at what the Coombs Report had to say about this matter - the report that has been so denigrated by its lack of its success in a wide variety of fields. Look at what happened to the recommendation that the Government was stupid enough to take on board in relation to Dartmouth dam and the proposed deletion of expenditure as it affects my own State of South Australia. Look at what happened to the suggestion in the report in relation to posts and telegraph charges; look at what happened in relation to a wide variety of other matters. This Government must be starting to wish that it had never heard of the Coombs Report because it is so wide of the mark in so many different fields where it has tried to save the Government money to make up for its rash expenditure which has got it in complete disfavour throughout this nation today. 
I will leave aside the argument whether we have 3 per cent interest on $500m in regard to loans for primary producers. I will let the Minister squeak his little answer on another occasion because he knows very well that he was guilty of the biggest display of malpractice and of putting a fact to the Australian people which I doubt he had any intention of honouring. If you did, where are you now that the interest rates are up to- 
I certainly withdraw the word malpractice'. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. For somebody who promised the Australian primary producers money at an interest rate of 3 per cent, I object to the fact that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  once again has accused me of voting against my own proposal. It must be apparent even to one with such a minuscule head as the Minister, that my motion has never been voted on. I ask the Minister to take that into account. 
It has never been put to the House. 
I had some regard for the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  but after tonight's performance I think he is a fool. Surely the honourable member would not dare for one moment to argue against someone of real competence. I refer to  Mr Giles,  the  Chairman  of Directors of Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd. He is a man who lives in a city and has mainly city interests, but he has some understanding of the interests of the nation. He is not the petty, parochial, mean, miserable and little type such as some members opposite. He is no relation of mine so I can be left out of this. At some time or other in this place members have to stand and speak on behalf of the nation. I am fed up with the determination of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  nice and ineffective though he is, to get stuck into my colleagues from the Country Party at every available opportunity. I want the Minister to know that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  and I and a lot of other people on this side of the House believe in exactly the sort of things that my colleagues from the Country Party have been saying. We are equally fed up with the determined attack by members opposite on the Country Party for their own cheap political purpose. Honourable members opposite seem to think that by attacking one group they can gain some advantage from another. They are adopting a mean and despicable tactic. Members on this side of the Parliament have no time at all for the sectional politics that bears no relation to the interests of the country whatsoever. 
We have heard the Postmaster-General in the last few months, when answering questions, say in some cases that it would be cheaper to buy the farm than to connect the telephone. I am not sure whether that statement is correct or incorrect. But I am concerned when any political leader or any Minister of the Crown suggests that that is a proper and decent method of judging who should have the telephone connected and who should not. Does it never occur to members opposite that the very people they are abusing are the ones who have to put up the majority of the line themselves and pay for it. Those who live in isolated areas - not living cheek by jowl, as the honourable member for Barker said a little while ago - are prepared to put down real cash, even in this day and age, in an endeavour to have a telephone connected, yet the Government, in a supercilious fashion, refers to the fact that it would be cheaper to buy the farm than to connect a telephone. What a despicable method of trying to get equity across the board in relation to these matters. I do not blame the Country Party or my own colleagues for taking the attitude that they have taken to this matter. 
I want to run over one or two matters of concern to me in relation to the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department. Firstly, I refer to the attitude - an example of which I have already given - of the PostmasterGeneral to an area of the nation in which the previous Government had an unrivalled record. There are not many rural areas today  whose telephone exchanges have not been it least programmed for rural automatic facilities. What does the future hold for them? The Government has said that funds will not be made available to outlying areas, some of which were programmed for conversion quite soon from manual exchanges to rural automatic exchanges. On behalf of the people of my electorate, which is nothing like as outlying as those of some of my colleagues, I would like to say that many of them are fed up with having to pay full fees year in and year out while getting only a limited manual telephone service. 
That is right. I must say that in many of the areas of which I am thinking there are a lot fewer than 100 subscribers. No doubt the Postmaster-General will ultimately tell us how uneconomic it would be to provide the service for them. But I get back to the marvellous speech tonight by the honourable member for Barker, who pointed out that one basis of evaluating how charges are to be imposed should be the extent of the availability of opportunities for people to telephone on local charges. Many of these people have to go hundreds of miles before reaching an area where they could number more than 20 or 30 people on a local charge rate. Surely to blazes that is one factor which should be taken into account in any consideration of equity as to who should or should not be programmed for help. 
Perhaps I should demonstrate the point I am trying to make. The availability of services to the cheek by jowl section compared with the availability to many of those who live in the areas which I have in mind is amply demonstrated by the actions of the previous honourable member for Sturt. Many honourable members might remember him as being a somewhat riotous individual who left the Parliament for a very good reason, that is, he was defeated at the last election. He sent me a 40-line telegram from his office, which was next door to my office in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Offices in Adelaide. That shows how wrong it is to take the attitude that apparently the Government has taken, that somehow or other the previous Government deprived people who lived in capital cities of access to the facilities that people expect in this day and age. If the sending of a 40-line telegram to me from an office next door to my office in the Commonwealth parliamentary offices does not show not only how cheaply some people take the telephone charges and the balance of help afforded to them but also how cheaply members of the Opposition in the last Parliament took the entire process of the connection of telephones, I would like to know of an example that does. That shows how artificial and stupid really is the form of logic that the Government is trying to impress upon the Parliament tonight. 
I must move on to another subject because there are several things that I want to say. I want to ask the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  as well as the other honourable members opposite who represent country electorates, why they, together with the honourable members of the 2 Parties on this side of the chamber who represent rural seats, are not at least voicing their objection to the increased charges that are being levied in almost every way on the communications structure of people who live in outlying areas. It is a shocking thing to me to think that they are running quiet. I have no doubt that the electors in their areas eventually will balance out the situation. I have no time for people who do not at least try to put forward the views of their own electorates. I am shocked when I look around and see how many honourable members are keeping quiet tonight on this topic. When I say that, I might qualify it by saying that, if the Government did not have every intention of gagging this debate shortly because it is running scared, another 3 hours of debate would be available to members on this side of the chamber in which to punish the eardrums of Government members on what we regard as the injustice that is being visited on a sectional faction. 
Before I sit down tonight there is one most serious matter to which I should like to refer, namely, that the South Australian Director of Posts and Telegraphs, Jack O'sullivan, who was known far and wide, died quite recently. He was a fine, affable, very sincere and highly respected man. I hope that the PostmasterGeneral, if he can and if he gets the opportunity, will pass on to the other directors and to anyone else who might be concerned the deep respects of honourable members from South Australia on the Opposition side. Jack O'sullivan was a man who had the complete confidence of members of all parties in the State in which he was Director. As I said a little while ago to one of my colleagues, he was so good at his job that I do not believe that any member of Parliament in South Australia did not privately believe that Jack O'sullivan was on his side, no matter on which side of the political fence he happened to be. 
I regret that there have been real complaints which I have had to voice tonight, but perhaps I should conclude on that somewhat inconsistent note. 
In the brief time that I have at my disposal I want to deal with only one point. We have here what must appear to many Australians to be the height of hypocrisy. The supporters of the Government are backing certain moves designed to effect the holding of simultaneous elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives at any subsequent election. I draw the attention of the House - it is not the first time it has been done, but I think it is worth repeating - to a book dated June 1972 entitled Labor's Way - A Summary of Information on the Policy of the Australian Labor Party'. On page 12 in section 4, in relation to constitutional matters, it says that Labor's way is to abolish the Senate. Surely to blazes the people in the Australian community of today who think out these things must think that there is really nothing more pathetic than to see- 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide does not believe in the right, to existence of the Senate. I ask him whether he denies that statement. 
I imagine that the honourable member for Port Adelaide is in the same position as 90 per cent of the supporters of the Government in that he does not believe in the right to existence of the Senate. It is written into the Australian Labor Party's platform that the Senate should be abolished. Of course I exonerate you,  Mr Speaker,  because of your occupancy of the Chair, but nearly everybody on the other side of the chamber is of the view that there should be no upper House in the federal structure of this country. Despite that they are now trying to line up a method whereby simultaneous elections will be held for both Houses. Nothing can be more pathetic in the eyes of the people of Australia than that. A little earlier in the debate a phrase was coined which I rather appreciated. This move was referred to as a permanent solution to a temporary situation. What could be closer to the truth than that? Previous governments, including governments of a different political complexion from the present Government, have had to put up with the same situation as the present Government. Any government that is worth its salt can certainly prune its legislation to meet the circumstances of an upper House, particularly an upper House, might I add in the 30 seconds left to me, that is different from, say, the upper House in the New South Wales ParliamentI am not going to debate it in that it is elected by the people of Australia. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I wish to talk about a very grave matter that occurred in the House this morning during question time. I refer to statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other statements. 'If I may, I should like to quote from an editorial of a newspaper to put my remarks into context. This editorial says: 
Question time in Parliament was designed to allow members of both the Government and the Opposition to obtain information which they consider vital to the efficient performance of their duties as elected representatives of the people. 
Regrettably this most important period has now reached the level of a third rate comedy where a tiresome cast of frustrated humorists now see it as an opportunity to make a near mockery of the entire proceedings. 
Unfortunately most questions are directed to the Prime Minister who seems to believe that the best way to answer an Opposition question is to belittle the member asking the question or to give an answer so facetious that it is, in many cases, little more than a direct insult. 
It goes on to say: 
It is indisputable that the Labor Government was given a mandate to govern, but it is traditional - 
This was a point mentioned over and over by members on this side of the House -  that members of Her Majesty's Opposition be recognised as men with a sense of both duty and responsibility and it would be as well for the Prime Minister to recognise this fact.' 
I will table that article whenever honourable members wish me to do so. The next article I wish to quote from appeared in this afternoon's Press. 
He can have it. If it is worth that much to the honourable member, there it is. The next article from which I wish to quote appeared in this evening's paper and it makes very plain that the most senior members of this Parliament said to a colleague of mine, for whom I personally have great respect: 
It is what he puts into his guts that- him. 
I think we all know what is represented by the dashes, and it probably was not quite as bad as some honourable members are thinking. 
My question to the House is this: If the senior - and one would hope the most respected - member of this Parliament, the Prime Minister, is entitled to make these remarks and is not required to apologise or withdraw - 
Or Cass - But he did. 
What the Minister at the table has just said is quite untrue. If this is the standard of behaviour that is tolerated by the Prime Minister in this Parliament what chance have you,  Mr Speaker,  of controlling what other people say? An opportunity was lost today for the sake of the future of this Parliament to protect people against silly smears, some of which can stick. Years ago  -  I have not the authority but I can find it quite easily - a  Speaker  who was famous for his courage in this place, in fact the previous member for Barker, rose and said: 'If any honourable member dares to say that someone looks as though he has been drinking, or that someone has been drinking, or that he is drunk, the member who says that thing will be named by me'. This was  Speaker  Cameron. He made the statement because if such a charge is made even against the greatest teetotaller in the land, such as the previous honourable member for Swan, it can stick. 
I intend to explore all avenues open to me to see what can be done to protect in this House members from such a scurrilous, cheap, and unmitigatedly stupid attack on other members as we heard in this House by the Prime Minister today. Out of deference to all members of this place, from the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  to myself, something must be done to stop this rubbing off of dirt by low people who should not be taking this attitude in the forum of the nation. 
Having made that point, I wish to make another one. Several honourable members, some of whom hold positions of authority in this Parliament, quite recently have had trouble in getting vehicles early in the morning to convey them from their homes to their place of work in Parliament House. I request the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  to have a look at this problem because I believe it is probably true to say that some Ministers in this place are using vehicles for one, two or three hours in the mornings which means that the vehicles cannot be made available to members of Parliament to get to work. I was held up for 40 minutes the other morning from the time when I had ordered a car. Other members will have had similar experiences and after all we are not all that important. But I would like the Minister to give an assurance to the House that these vehicles are not being used capriciously for shopping expeditions. 
The honourable member for Adelaide can have his say in a little while. I want an assurance from the Minister, and I am entitled to ask for ian assurance from him, that Ministers' cars are being used for their proper purposes and not improper purposes for which tie people of Australia might have to pay. 
The honourable member's attempt at trying to run the Joint Committee on Prices is pretty punk, so I advise him to shut his trap. All I am asking for is some assurance on the matter I have put before this House. I conclude by reading from an editorial from the 'Sydney Morning Herald' - if that is of interest to the honourable member for Adelaide with his pettiness. It states: 
In May,  Mr Whitlam  told Parliament he had approved a maximum personal staff of seven for each Minister, and variation would require his personal approval. 
I note that since then not only has the Prime Minister taken on board a good adviser - I hope for the sake of the country he turns out to be better than I expect - but also that Professor Colin Howard has been appointed to  Senator Murphy's  staff. 
At a cool $25,000 a year. If the people of Australia are paying for cars that I am implying are sometimes misused, they are also paying for more and more experts for incompetent Ministers to hide behind. This is another matter. I quote from a comment by  Senator Carrick  in another place and I ask the House to note it. He said:   the elegance, the expansiveness, the luxury of style of this new socialist government, this government of the workers, a style which in its Bacchanalian excesses, in its nepotism, by contrast makes the members of the previous Government look like Trappist monks in retreat. 
I oan quote any number of examples if honourable members opposite want me to elaborate on this statement. This  Government must  start to come down to earth. The people of Australia want to know that their funds are being spent properly and that their Prime Minister is a man of dignity with some decency in his makeup. I think it fair to say that until the Prime Minister tells us about the staffing arrangements of Ministers, which he has promised this Parliament to do but has not done, the people of Australia are entitled to know who these faceless men are who are not elected by the Australian people but who cover up for Ministers in every way possible at huge public expense. I ask the House to note the 2 points I have made tonight. 
I believe that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  wants to speak for a few minutes, so I shall not take my full time to allow him the opportunity to speak. The matter to which I wish to refer tonight is, I suppose, not unknown to honourable members from the various electorates around Australia. I refer to the position of country hospitals. In this case, the hospital to which I wish to refer is the Barmera District Hospital. It has the advantage, according to some, or perhaps the disadvantage, according to others, of having around it the Gerard Aboriginal Mission. Furthermore it has living around it in that area many of what I might call civilian, non-reserve type Aboriginal families who are highly thought of and respected in the community. The Barmera Hospital has to cope with both of the groups I have mentioned and, furthermore, must cope with itinerant Aborigines coming in from further afield. Of course, the hospital is subject to the charter of country hospitals which is currently laid down in the State of South Australia. 
The sort of problem experienced at present by the Barmera Hospital is well highlighted by the following facts: It is a hospital of 40 available beds. Its average daily occupancy rate between 30 June and 31 October of this year was 35.17 which, as honourable members will see, is a very high occupancy rate. Of this average, 5.51 is accounted for by Aborigines. In relation to the total number of Aborigines in that area, it means that one Aborigine out of every 30 in the area is in that hospital every day. As the daily average of Aborigines has increased from 3.05 last year to 5.51 for the first 4 months of this year, the hospital has a problem because of non-payment of hospital dues. It is fair to say that this hospital has worked very hard to try to make sure that all Aborigines who are admitted to the hospital are properly signed up in regard to their hospital benefits but in spite of this there exists a tremendous problem in terms of the amounts of money owing over quite a period of time. 
I provided the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  with full documentation of this case and his Department wrote - I think the liles will show that it was back in September - to the Barmera Hospital stating that the Department was most interested in looking at this case to see whether the amount of money owing, which at this stage is in the region of $8,000, spreading over more than a year, could be repayable by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs as a special grant to that country hospital. I mention this tonight because there has been a little lapse of time and for this reason I have handed the Minister the files tonight. Secondly, I want to put before the House what must be a problem that affects hospitals in many parts of Australia today. If the Government can make up this amount of money to a hospital in a country area - in this case, a brand new one built by the South Australian Government - under a form of rating to help repayable loans in that area, then it would be less of a handicap on the district as a whole and would be some small gesture towards attracting first class facilities into country areas, such as this area of Barmera. I hope the Minister in this House who represents the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is able to successfully meet the request on proper consideration after studying the files I have handed over to him today. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) deals with many of the most important budget measures that increased taxation on the Australian community. I will list one or two measures, but they are by no means all. This Bill alters the gold and other smaller mineral subsidies. It alters the depreciation allowance over a wide range, including land clearing, soil erosion measures, fencing and dams. It entirely deletes investment allowances and thus reduces efficiency in the productive element of the Australian economy, .that element being the manufacturing sector and the rural or primary industries. It taxes many age pensioners. It removes some of the benefits of the war memorial projects. It increases taxation and removes special deductions on life assurance. 
The measure I wish to refer to entirely tonight is the deletion of section 31 (a) from the Act. That action heavily hits the part of the wine industry that makes, ages, stores and blends wines and brandies for good quality wines. I wish to mention this aspect of the Bill tonight because I maintain that it is the worst example of sectional discrimination ever visited on any one industry in the history of Australia. Firstly the revaluation of stock hits all elements of the wine industry very heavily. Although it is outside the scope of this Bill I mention the increases of excise duty and subsequent sales tax increases which amount altogether to a 62.4 per cent increase. This brings the Governments rake off from this industry to $794 a ton and leaves the growers' return at approximately $60 a ton. It increases the Governments rake off from $440 a ton to $794 a ton. That is the result if we base the calculation on the fact that 40 proof gallons would be the yield per ton. It is a variable quantity from one winery to another. It is the worst example of sectional discrimination ever visited on any single industry by any Treasurer as far as I can tell in the history of the federation of the Australian States. It proves that this Government has a very voracious appetite for taxing anybody. The only thing that stops this principle being visited on other sections of the community today is the fact that this Government made a promise to the Australian people - I will deal later on in my speech with other promises - that it would not raise personal income tax. I have already mentioned revaluation of stock, the increase in excise duty and the consequent increase in sales tax amounting to 62.4 per cent. 
I now mention the increase in private company tax which hits every industry including those in the electorate of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, if not the bigger ones. Some wineries will also be hit by the altered depreciation schedules in relation to land clearing, fencing and so on. There is to be phased in an equalisation of the advantage which was previously handed out to the brandy industry for very good reason. The reason is based on the fact that the brandy industry is an entire industry unto itself. It is not a by-product industry, as are the industries of its competitors. It is not a by-product of the sugar industry or the grain industry. It is an industry unto itself. That is the reason why governments more sensible than this one gave it an advantage in the production of brandy. There are many examples in the past from 1951 onwards, when previous governments tried to do what this Government in its misguided zeal is attempting to do, of individual brandy producing distilleries losing 50 per cent of their sales of brandy. One hopes that the same circumstances will not apply now, but history says that in the past this has been the circumstance. 
I know very well that Government supporters will duck behind any cover at all on this matter. They know very well that the Treasury officials with their voracious appetite - I will not refer to that of the honourable member for Port Adelaide - have a longing for income tax funds that cannot be satisfied. I know from my experience with wine excise that the Department of Primary Industry is not much help either. In fact after what 1 might call with great honesty the slight debacle of the exercise in wine excise recently, three of them told me how much they had learned. On the front bench on the Govern ment side today we want people who have a bit of discernment, who have had a bit of experience with the wine industry and all its ramifications. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)The honourable member for Port Adelaide is interjecting while he is out of his seat. 
I did not hear the interjection, so let him go,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Port Adelaide and his mate the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would do well to think back- 
As for the honourable member for oranges who has not got a clue, he had better wake up because on the result of the New South Wales election his seat is gone a mile. He will have to do better than he has done in the past here otherwise he will have no hope of retaining his seat. He might take that advice from me in passing. 
The honourable member does not think they have put Australia on the map? 
I was referring to the honourable member for Hindmarsh who doubted my statement. If anyone has bludged more wine off the wine industry than has the honourable member for Hindmarsh, I would like to know who he is. One alternative in the event that the wineries are unable to find the funds is that they will go broke. The second is that they might be taken over. The third, which is probably the most important, is that these wineries will have to sell out the very stock from which their top quality wine is made. To quote an example - and I think some members of this House will understand the analogy that I am about to draw; I know that the Treasurer will - -Penfolds Grange Hermitage was to my knowledge last issued as a wine from the 1967 vintage. It has not been issued since. Penfolds winery will find that the very wine that it is trying to store from its vineyards above Adelaide and Magill will be the last stock they will be able to afford to hold. This ridiculous short-sighted section of this Bill does not make it possible in my opinion for wineries, particularly the small ones, to hang onto the very top quality stock which has made Australian wines favourably received not only overseas and in this country but also by some honourable members opposite, and I hope they damned well remember it. 
If they find themselves short of funds and they have to sell off their high quality stock - and I hesitate to use this argument as I hesitated once before in a debate on wine excise - they may find that they will be forced to rescind contracts of 20 to 30 years standing with small wine grape growers. With great reticence I have succeeded in restraining myself from speaking on this matter since the Budget was delivered. I know that one firm has now cancelled contracts with 32 growers in my electorate who provide grapes for the purposes of brandy distillation. This is a direct result of revaluation of stock. If a firm such as this is squeezed for liquidity there is a very grave danger that in the event of a big yield of wine grapes in a year there will be an incapacity in the industry, due to this short sighted policy, of the little grape growers to sell their grapes. 
Grapes are not like wheat or barley which are used to produce vodka and whisky. They are not like the sugar industry which produces rum. Those items are by-products of those industries. You cannot sell on any alternate market grapes which are grown for the purpose of making brandy. One can put grain even down an honourable member's gullet, probably with great advantage. One can do all sorts of things with sugar. But perpetually Federal government departments - not only under one Government - have succeeded in deluding themselves into believing that these levies on the wine industry are imposed on the big fat wineries. Very rarely does this happen. Frequently the onus is placed on the little people who have nowhere near an income of $105 which is the average wekly income in this nation today. 
Now I would like to refer to what the Coombs report had to say about this area of taxation. Not only in this instance did the Government accept the recommendation of the Coombs report; in this case it went one better. The Coombs report says: 
Upward revision of the rninimum values laid down under Section 31a would yield savings to revenue which, obviously, would vary depending upon the extent of the adjustment involved. Alternatively, Section 31a might be repealed . . . 
That is what the Government decided to do. In this case it has gone one better than the Coombs report recommendation. 
Let us look at what has been said elsewhere in relation to this matter. I have a letter which was distributed throughout my electorate prior to the last Federal election. This letter was distributed to wine grape growers, to distilleries and to wineries. It was a fund raising scheme concocted by the Premier of South Australia, not, I might say a man of my political colour but a man of the political colour of honourable members opposite. The Premier said: 
The future of the wine industry has become an issue at the forthcoming Federal elections. 
The Australian Labor Party believes, and its Federal Executive has stated, that the only solution that will guarantee continued prosperity for the wine industry and the many thousands of growers who  supply it is complete abolition of the excise and its non replacement by a sales tax or any other imposition. 
I seek your financial support for the ALP campaign for the Federal elections. 
He went on to develop the alternative methods of donating to the Labor Party. He said: 
. Pledge a donation to be paid only after the Federal Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, has given an unequivocal assurance during the campaign that a government led by him will abolish the excise and not replace it with a sales tax or any other imposition. 
Whitlam said it will not be replaced by any other imposition. Is this a serious imposition? Can it be looked on as an imposition? What do honourable members think about that? It seems to me that there has been a bit of political chicanery, if I might say so, in relation to that- I do not ask honourable members opposite to believe me or to believe anyone else but I would ask them to listen to what was said by the Premier of South Australia on the same issue. The Premier of South Australia said that Federal Budget tax measures against the wine industry were worse than those imposed by the last Liberal Government with wine excise. 
What does Whitlam say about that? He is the one who has been caught with his pants down. He is the one whom the Premier of South Australia has dismissed as a potent political force because of his chicanery. He is the one whom the Premier of South Australia will not wear today because his word cannot be trusted. That is why. I speak here for hundreds of grape growers who believe the same thing. 
I would like the Prime Minister to be here for once to answer some of the allegations that he himself has started; I did not. The whole situation is despicable for the people I represent. If they cannot believe in the Prime Minister of the land or any of his Ministers, whom can they believe in? 
'Very funny. The people in my electorate who are listening tonight will be delighted with that interjection. I do not think I have time in the 3 minutes left to me to go over, as I intended to do tonight, the history of the attempts by governments to tax the wine industry. The only comment I have to make in relation to it is this: It is very easy for city-based people to sit on their backsides, as  Dr Coombs  does- 
I know that the Minister cannot sit on his because he is uncomfortable. People cannot sit on their backsides and say that this industry can stand some taxation or that industry cannot. The Grant report made very plain to the grape growing fraternity of this country, and I hope to one or two others which may have had time to scan through it lightly, that you cannot .under any circumstances over-tax these industries. 
I have a marvellous quotation from a meeting which was held about 3 years ago frankly to crucify the honourable member for Angas. Several interesting things happened at the meeting, one of which I will mention in the two minutes left to me. This is an extract from the speech I made at that time when I had SOO people against me. I said that there was one condition on which I would join the Labor Party, in terms of its past exercise in trying to vote against wine excise which, by the way with 50 per cent off, would have been a damned sight better than what is levied on the industry today. That is a quotation from  Mr Dunstan.  At the .meeting I said: 
I am distrustful of the Labor Party's intentions. I rather feel myself that they are in favour of the workman's best friend, beer, and will have scant regard and sympathy for wine grape growers or the Wine Industry. 
At the time I was booed. I do not believe that I would be booed today because this legislation, if I might say so again, on 6 points is the worst bit of discrimination in my memory that has ever been brought to bear on the wine industry. I say with a great deal of emphasis and sincerity that it is a rotten deal for that industry. 
Has the Prime Minister seen several Press reports in which the Premier of South Australia describes the Whitlam Government's total tax on the wine industry - revaluation of stock and shifts in excise duty - as being 'much more onerous on the industry than the original wine excise', 50 per cent of which was removed as a result of the efforts of my colleagues and myself? Does the Prime Minister realise that neither the Premier nor the industry regards these measures as anything other than political betrayal? 
I think I am referring to the right member of the House of Representatives when I refer to a comment made by my friend the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder)  which appeared in the week-end Press. He asked that 5 civil servants go into his electorate and try to explain what the Government's policy is - a most difficult task. Whilst I admire his attempt to drag the civil service screaming into the political arena, I find it very difficult to understand why he says that his colleagues should not be asked to help explain because they talk too much. I do not know that I would not find it a week of welcome relief if I lived in the Evans electorate, but perhaps I am just being satirical. 
I rise purely to debate this rather vexed question of equality of opportunity which seems to me to be rather difficult to understand, after all the years in which we have listened to members of the present Government refer to what happened to children brought up in certain areas, in certain ways or by certain parents. Those honourable members have a type of deprivation mentality. It is said that certain children are disadvantaged in comparison with children brought up in other areas, in other ways and by other parents. I think one can perpetuate just as must injustice by an over-insistence that disadvantage is a fact of life today; as one can cause by an assertion that there is a very great variation between the homes in which children are brought up in one area as against another. I think, with respect, that honourable members on the Government side are trying to have the best of both worlds in presenting this argument. 
Let us consider the attitude of the State Labor Government in South Australia which has been very insistent on this point. It says that it has made real progress over the years in equating any variation of opportunity. We on this side say that with our many years in government we did so in the Federal sphere. Both  Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Hudson,  on the one side, and the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  on the other side, as well as many other people, would agree that discrimination between children has got less and less and that the gap has been closed to a greater and greater extent. If we accept that improvement has been made, why are we suddenly going in the opposite direction? The Government, admittedly in relation to only one small part of this Bill, now aims to go to the opposite extreme. It says that children have been treated in an unfair way, that equality of opportunity is not present. I understand that the intention of the Government in regard to the awarding of scholarships is to go to the extent of saying that no child of tomorrow will be able to get up with head in the air and say: 'Despite where I was born, despite the conditions I have been brought up under, I won a scholarship'. That child's mates or sisters or bothers will not be able to get up and say: 'Despite where I was born, my academic capacity was such that I won a government scholarship'. 
The big problem that occurs to me at this stage in relation to this Bill is that a lot of the initiative and a lot of the enterprise is to be taken from the process which develops a pride in children, no matter what section of the spectrum they may have been brought up in. That element will disappear under this Bill. Although this argument might seem to be somewhat tenuous to some honourable members so far as per capita grants are concerned, I suggest to the House that there is a strong connection between these 2 points of view. Let us look at the basic variables in relation to the education of our children. Honourable members on both sides have seen brilliant children born of brilliant parents, where academic learning is a matter of great ease to them. These children are fortunate in that because of their genetics they have this capacity. We see the range of ability in children, depending on what their parents are. We know of brilliant parents who have children without much ability and people without much apparent ability who have brilliant children. 
Another fact of life is the environmental aspect. I think we can forget the genetic aspect because frankly, the variation in people in every social group remains approximately the same. The argument develops when we come to environmental reasons which include such factors as ease of study, whether the child's parents talk intelligently, and whether they keep up with contemporary matters and news. Other things include their attitude to work, to study and to the reading of books, whether the members of the family talk together at night and educate each other in this way. In the emotional area are included the location of the school, whether the parents' association is active and whether it makes money and buys facilities for that school. All these things are included in the environmental area. 
I think it is safe to assume that what the Government is saying to us at this stage is that the trend, in its opinion, is such that those people who are disadvantaged on environmental grounds should receive some inequality of treatment in order to bring them up to another standard. It is at this point that in all principle I must quarrel with the Government. As far as I can see it does not matter what sociological group honourable members want to look at because within those groups is a total variation. There will be some brilliant children, some dumb children - if that is not too unkind - and a hell of a lot in the middle of the range. That is the pattern in every social group that we care to look at. In every social group where we perceive and look at those matters it will be seen that people rise beyond their environment, or from the richest sociological group they sink below it. To mention what to some honourable members may seem to be a silly illustration, although I do not think it is, my field of expertise is dairy cattle and their genetics. I remember visiting the top experimental farm in the world at Beltsville in the United States of America many years ago. To illustrate how silly geneticists and breeders can be in trying always to go for the top quality breeding stock, at Beltsville, if on production grounds they had got rid of the bottom third of their friesian cows, within 10 years they would have lost 13 out of their 14 cows which exceeded 1,000 lb of butterfat production in one year. You get this regression to norm genetically, which is what I am discussing now. I am talking about regressions to norm from the brilliant areas and to others coming up. 
I think honourable members can run away too strongly with the idea that after all these years we should now bias funds for education towards certain areas when the gap is certainly closing now in comparison with what was happening 20 years ago or even 10 years ago. At this point of time one would think that the Government would be saying quite plainly that it sees the time coming when the environmental grounds in which all children are brought up are so level in this country that all children will be able to have pride, no matter where they were born, in being able to get up and say: 'I won a government scholarship'. In this way we get real initiatives and real sense into the problem of training children to a work pattern which will benefit them in later life. It depends exactly upon what people want. 
I told the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I would talk for only 5 or 10 minutes, and my time has come to a halt. Purely on that one point, I find it difficult to understand the Minister in his insistence that the method of choosing one top quality scholar from another should not be based on the standard of that one person who may have worked flat out to achieve that standard during his career at school. Apart from that, I must say one more thing. Over the years I have battled hard against the principle of establishing a schools commission. I do not run away from that. At this stage of the piece, when I am in Opposition, I will sit back with a great deal of interest and watch to see whether the results the Government expects to get through the work of this Commission working on a needs basis reveal whether the principle is the right one or the wrong one. I think anyone can produce the money and hope to get the results. The problem is whether the right procedures have been adopted to achieve worthwhile results on behalf of the future children of this nation. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmithPostmasterGeneral) (4.57&gt;- in reply - I thank all honourable members who have participated in the debate, particularly those who have dealt with the problems of education on an impartial and fair basis, because problems still exist and have existed for a great many years. Nevertheless a number of statements have been made which have been suggestive that the Government is not really tackling the problem properly. Let us look at the matter from the point of view of what this means in monetary terms - and that is the first criticism. It means in monetary terms that, accepting the point of view that money was made by a previous Government, we thought that that was insufficient. We thought that there should be a schools commission, and the interim committee for such a schools commission has now brought in a report which I suggest is the fairest way of dealing with any area of need in the monetary term. 
The previous Government thought it was sufficient to allocate $225m, including $142m for non-government schools. To show how defective that analysis was, when the Karmel Committee introduced its report, which we are now implementing, we provided $694m, including $198m for non-government schools. This is the issue. It is not a question of the money; it is a question of the need being there, and you obviously require the additional resource of money to make up for the deficiency. You just cannot say that because millions of dollars are being spent you will get a result. We must bear in mind that this money is by way of State grant. It goes to those education authorities in the States no matter whether they are dealing with government or nongovernment areas, and they will allocate those resources into the classroom and amongst the children. 
The criticism of previous governments has been that they never looked at this issue of need. They have assumed that everybody has been equal, and that has not been the case at all. It is interesting to note a speech that was made on 20 October 1963 in Waverley by the then Prime Minister. It was clear at that stage that the 'Federal Government had not even had a chance to get into educational problems. It left education to the States. That speech by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Robert  Menzies, now  Sir Robert  Menzies, made it clear that he thought that with the tremendous burden of taxation which was then, as he thought, sufficient up to the 1963 period and following the end of the Second World War, it would not have been possible for nongovernment schools to survive. That was the philosophy of the Liberal Government; it was was not really one of taking an interest in education. The non-government sector was not expected to survive, and he was amazed in 1963 to find that it still survived, and then decided that something ought to be done about it. 
This is the big problem. Not sufficient interest has been taken at the Commonwealth level in the problems of the States. It therefore became obvious in public opinion that with the high cost of living and the increased wages required for teachers something had to be done. Education just could not run on the shoestring budgets that States were providing. The State governments in turn were getting such a small amount under the reimbursement formula that they could not provide adequate resources to meet all educational needs. So we come to the real issue of what this is all about - an allocation to overcome the deficiencies, to satisfy those needs, partial as it may be today. At least a start has been made. So when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as the Leader of the Australian Labor Party, at the last election, went to the people one of the first issues he put to them in the policy speech was education. It was a primary function. He said: 
We propose a new charter for the children of Australia. 
There has to be that charter to overcome their inequality. He said: 
Education is the key to equality of opportunity. Sure - we can have education on the cheap ... but our children will be paying for it for the rest of their lives. 
There was a mandate for something to be done about this situation. He went on to say this: 
The most rapidly growing sector of public spending under a Labor Government will be education. Education should be the great instrument for the promotion of equality. Under the Liberals it has become a weapon for perpetuating inequality and promoting privilege. For example, the pupils of State and Catholic schools have had less than half as good an opportunity as the pupils of non-Catholic independent schools to gain Commonwealth secondary scholarships- 
So there we see that mandate, that illustration of the situation. So it should not be thought that we were deceptive or misleading. When the Prime Minister made the speech on 20 June to which the honourable member for Wannon referred he said: 
The ALP has never voted against any Bill proposing Commonwealth aid for education and it will support any forms of benefit already existing. 
That was in June, and it was suggested that that meant it should continue for the rest of that year because a Bill was introduced in the Budget session of 1972. But if we look at the Hansard report we see that my colleague, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  leading for the then Opposition, is quoted as saying in relation to that States Grants Bill: 
We take the attitude that in the forthcoming school year of 1973 this Bill must therefore be allowed to proceed. But we give a fair warning that if we are in power, while there will be an expenditure on nongovernment schools of no less than the sum total that will be appropriated in this Bill, the appropriation will be re-apportioned - it will be re-apportioned on the basis of need. 
So there is no deception in the Government's attitude. He concluded that speech by talking about the financial resources that would be required. He said: 
It would be a folly impossible to justify to appropriate large sums of money to schools that receive in fees very high revenues and are not in need in respect of their recurring expenses or for that matter their capital expenditure. 
It was for that reason he moved an amendment. So there is no deception in the approach of the Government in this situation, and it should not be thought that there has ever been any deception. 
Let me deal with some of the specific matters that were raised by the various members in the course of their comments. The honourable member for Wannon has moved an amendment which states that we have virtually not taken notice of the needs of the States, the problems of the States. There has been a suggestion that the approach of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission was too hurried. But it is quite obvious that we do not say at this stage that everything is perfect in the final recommendations of the Committee, but it has been an excellent working foundation. It is the only way any parliamentary group can be handled. The Karmel Committee's report will be a milestone in Commonwealth interest in education. It clearly indicates what can be done by Commonwealth intervention. We must put that into focus, because the States for many years have been saying that under the Constitution they have the sole and absolute right to control education. We do not deny that. Nevertheless it is interesting to note that in respect of monetary measures Opposition members are anxious to say: 'Yes, that is what we need.' The report of the Karmel Committee was applauded by all State leaders on that basis. There is no problem from the point of view of the States being able to use these financial resources in addition to what they already receive under the tax reimbursement formula. I must also say that it is interesting to note that within the States there are still many disparities. I come from New South Wales where the Liberal Government has been in power for quite some time and where there is a means test on secondary grants. Nobody says anything about it. Therefore the school section that is deemed to be non-government is discriminated against, if one wants to use the Opposition's term, on the basis of means. It is quite ridiculous to suggest that we are doing anything wrong because it will be found that for many schools to which we are now providing money on the basis of categories the New South Wales Liberal Government is not providing any money on a per capita basis at all because of the means test. It is ridiculous to suggest that all States are equal in their treatment of students. It is far from true and that is the very reason why we have to try to fill up the gaps in the educational field. 
The honourable member for Wannon was anxious that we should specifically overcome the problem of what he deemed to be the special learning difficulties. He wanted something said about that. Let us make it clear that the problem of special learning difficulties is certainly one that we wish to overcome. Such children are not deemed to be handicapped children within the meaning of the Act. We certainly mean that such a child is handicapped in the initial stages of education but by providing special resources that handicap can be erased. Honourable members will notice that, in paragraph 10.34 of the Karmel report, this matter is dealt with on the basis that there should be special funds made available for remedial teaching and it goes on to say: 
There is an acknowledged need for increased specialist assistance to children in normal classes experiencing specific learning difficulties. Provision is included in the general recurrent grants. . . . 
We recognise that there is a problem and it is being dealt with in the provision of recurrent grants. 
It was said - and this is quite drastic from our point of view - that clause 66 of the Bill must not be carried into effect. If we adopted that suggestion we would not be able to terminate the existing arrangements. That would destroy the whole concept of this Bill. If we failed to terminate the existing arrangements we would be allowing to flow on another $1 14m in addition to the amount of money referred to in this Bill. No responsible Opposition would say 'There is a lot of money here, you must account for it' and then leave a previous piece of legislation which would mean, if one looks at paragraphs 6.45 and 6.55 of the Karmel report, an additional $114m to be applied without any test at all. It is quite wrong for an Opposition to be putting up that sort of proposition, and we reject it out of hand. 
A number of the amendments are virtually incidental. They are on the basis that the word 'on' is not equivalent to the words 'in accordance with'. I indicate now that I think there is no problem. We will accept that proposition. In our view the word 'on' is the same as the words 'in accordance with' and therefore there is no reason why we should reject those amendments. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  made a very constructive speech. He wanted an assurance in respect of capital work which had been commenced.  His  view was that it would have to be concluded before 31 December 1975. I am as sure that is not so. I give him that assurance. Provided it is clear that the contract was let before 31 December 1975 the payments will be made for the project. 
Another matter raised in the course of comment was the question of the boards appointed by the Minister in relation to Catholic systemic schools. I am able to say that provisional boards have been set up in each State. This information is available. I hand it to the honourable member for Wannon. If he agrees perhaps that information could be incorporated in Hansard because it shows the Government's bona fides in the development that has taken place in this area. 
I must say that it is quite amusing to honourable members on this side of the House to listen to the attempts of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  to justify his point of view in a situation that is rapidly becoming a mess for him.  Mr Speaker,  I wonder whether you would allow me to ask the honourable member for Eden-Monaro whether, for instance, he signed a report recommending the imposition of an export tax on meat? 
With that on top of the indictment made out last night by my colleague, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  I would have thought in any logic that that would prove to be exactly the impossible situation into which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is getting himself. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro said that he signed the report. He now doubts the veracity of the terms of reference and seems to try to argue that they were not the sort of terms of reference that should be held against him in relation to his signing of the report. He referred to the use of this medium by other parties as being a political vehicle. I cannot imagine a political vehicle that is going on so few cylinders as is the honourable member for Eden-Monaro at this time. It Ls a wonder that it is succeeding in making any noise at all. 
However, I did not stand tonight to box on with my colleague on the opposite side, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. I stood to ask the House whether or not it believed a most peculiar thing happened this morning. I refer to a question posed by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to, from memory, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or, perhaps, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  We do not get answers from either of them, so the difference is not great. The honourable member for Adelaide asked whether or not the action of the Senate in holding up the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill might reflect on the capacity of the wine industry, some of its wineries and some of its firms to remain viable. 
I must agree with the honourable member for Gwydir that it is really scraping the bottom of the keg. Let us think back to the very first week of this session. Do honourable members recall the Treasurer's saying in reply to a question I had asked during the adjournment debate on a night similar to this that if the wine or the brandy industry were in anything like the trouble that 1 had suggested it was in and if the industry reached the stage of bankruptcy or takeover, its representatives should go along and see him because he would then listen to the views they put forward. I remember very well my friend, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  standing and asking: 'Is this an example of socialistic thinking, to tax some industry out of existence and then be prepared to listen to its views and to try to resuscitate it again?' I ask you,  Mr Speaker:  Is this or is this not what the honourable member for Adelaide was referring to this morning? The honourable member for Adelaide seems to think that, in spite of the fact that it was his own Government which imposed the onus of this tax, the wine industry has been put in such a situation that it will need the Australian Government to come forward with help from the AIDC which will purchase equity in Australian wineries. What other implication could there be in that question? 
Is the Treasurer right? Is the honourable member for Adelaide right? Does this Government see its role as being one of taxing industries out of existence one by one and then. with the generosity of its socialist thinking, offering some help from AIDC or from anybody else? What a prospect this is for the industries which have made this nation great. 
That is another topic on which one could spend a long time. These wineries are faced with a liquidity problem. What do they do? Do they quit their stocks which have long maturation periods and from which they make their quality wines? Do they try to hang on to their valuable stock and perhaps say that the AIDC or a beneficent government will come to their rescue and that after all, it does not matter very much whether the Government takes up half of the equity of their companies? 
I thought you were going to say 'abortion' for a moment. There is another matter which is of very grave concern to me and I am surprised that it has not been raised in the House up to this time. Many honourable members must have read in the Sunday Press, particularly in New South Wales, the incredible comments by the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder)  that politicians - I presume he meant himself - were not capable of explaining government policy to his electors. He furthermore said that he had so much distrust in the capacity of politicians to explain government policy that, with the backing of the Prime Minister he had thought up the idea of bringing 5 senior civil servants into the electorate of Evans to explain government policy. He proposed that people be invited from all over Sydney - even perhaps from your own electorate,  Mr Speaker  - to have the benefit of listening to 5 senior civil servants dragged into the political arena, trying to explain to the people of Sydney what the Government's policies are. 
We will leave aside for a minute the fact that the honourable member for Evans does not understand the Government's policies. What an outrageous concept it is that the honourable member for Evans, evidently backed by the Prime Minister, should seriously consider putting what I gather from the description in the Press are top civil servants into a political arena where they are to be set up like Aunt Sallys and fired at by vicious members of the community who evidently do not understand what the Government is trying to do. This is past belief. I always though that such civil servants in a country like Australia had the role of impartially advising governments, one after another, and that they were immune to the political bun fights that occur from time to time. 
Speaking of political bun fights, might I return to where I started and refer again to the wine industry because not long ago - about 3 years ago - there was a first class political bun fight in my electorate. Frankly, if I might be permitted to say so, it was held to try to get at the honourable member for Angas with whom they were not awfully pleased at that time. At that meeting were the then Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the then honourable member for Sturt,  Mr Foster. 
Perhaps the then honourable member for Sturt is more accurately identified by the honourable member's interjection. That entire meeting was composed of people putting their point of view on the clear presumption was that if wine excise were removed there would b,e no sales tax or alternative imposition placed on the industry. The honourable member for Riverina clearly said that. The then honourable member for Sturt also said it although, as was his wont, he did not say it quite as clearly. Everybody at that meeting debated that question. The other day, the alternative of that meeting was held. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)- 
I am sorry,  Mr Speaker.  No Government supporters saw fit to turn up at the latter meeting. This surely was the other side of the coin. The Premier of South Australia has said that this Government has put a much greater onus upon the wine industry than did the previous Government by way of wine excise. I wonder if I might inform honourable members what my temporary friend, the Premier of South Australia, said.  Mr Dunstan  when referring to the refusal of the 
Prime Minister to keep his word about tax exemptions on wine and brandy said: 
It is not a thing I would have done to anyone under any circumstances. 
He went on to say: 
I don't believe a politician should ever go to the public and cynically make a promise he knows can. not be kept. 
The Premier of South Australia said that in relation to the Prime Minister's comment that was denied by this Government. 
I wish to speak briefly in support of the comments made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  in the much too short a time at his disposal, on locusts. Before doing so I would like to refer, contrary to the previous honourable member's views on the subject, to the book of Exodus in the Bible. In Exodus locusts were referred to as the eighth plague visited on the people. This was due to the misdoings of their Pharaoh. I do not know whether honourable members would like to strike an analogy in terms of the Australian Pharaoh of the moment, or whether this pestilence should be removed. I think it would be quite easy to think of half a dozen plagues on the people. I think of, firstly, inflation, secondly, the broken promises that children should have per capita education grants; thirdly, the promises to the wine industry which, in the view of the Premier of South Australia have been broken; fourthly, the wrecking of the defence structure of Australia; fifthly, the wrecking of the mineral industry and the petroleum exploration industry. Sixthly, one could even go so far as to talk of pensioners being taxed and chiselled, I shall leave the seventh plague as a blank because one would hope that the pestilence might be removed shortly. I should like personally to deal with the eighth plague - locusts - which I hope will not develop. 
I back up what was said by the honourable member for Mackellar for the following reasons: Firstly, the number of locusts in Australia at present in 1973 is higher than at any other time. Secondly, I do not unduly criticise the Government for it - I do not believe enough work has been done on matters such as the biological control of the Australian locust problem. Thirdly, there is certainly not enough work has been done on matters such as before the locusts are in the flyer stage - in other words, when they are in the egg or the grasshopper pupa stage. Fourthly, all this boils down to the funding available to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on the one hand, and to the State Departments of Agriculture on the other hand, which are left with the dreadful problem of trying physically to effect control of the problem. Control at this stage, of course, is largely a matter of sprays. Let us have a look at the problem of sprays, because this has a great deal of relevance to what could occur if locust populations build up and if weather conditions turn out to be optimum for that buildup. 
Firstly, DDT evidently is not of much use in the control of locusts or grasshoppers. 
Secondly, malathion, which honourable members will recall was mentioned recently in a debate on wheat storage, has the capacity to build up resistant strains in the insects, such as weavils and probably has a limited future use. However, it can be used at the moment at a cost of about 13c for an acre's coverage, but it is in very short supply. In fact, it is virtually unobtainable. Thirdly, there is lindane which, in my State, is being purchased at present for, I think, $4 a gallon and distributed to farmers for their own use at $2 a gallon. Lindane is technically the third best spray against locusts, but I believe that no more of it is available. We now come to Fenitrathion which technically is the best of the sprays against locusts. I think that it is marginally more expensive than the other sprays, but no more of it will be available until May 1975 because the only plant in the world where this chemical has been manufactured recently is in Japan, and last month the factory blew up. So, at a time of maximum buildup of locusts in Australia, a total situation of non-supply - to use a generalised term - of the 3 major sprays applies right across the board. 
It is for this reason that I have pleasure in congratulating the honourable member for Mackellar for bringing these facts to the notice of the House. Many of my colleagues on this side of the House represent agricultural areas which could - and I stress the word 'could' - be threatened by locusts. Perhaps this is flying a kite in a way, but I think that it is part of our job as members of Parliament to point to dangers when they exist. AH I can do is bring the matter to the notice of the Government today and point to the situation as it exists. 
In South Australia recently there has been a steep increase in locust numbers due, strangely enough, to a change in wind direction to the northeast. In fact, because of this we have been copping - if that is the right word - grasshopper flyers from central New South Wales. This is the direction - a rather unusual direction - from which they have been coming. So the general picture is that due to this unusual wind direction, the grasshoppers, instead of immediately threatening the breeding areas of southwest Queensland and north-central New South Wales - perhaps they are threatening those areas as well - are presently building up numbers in the Mallee and Nildottee River areas in my own electorate. 
Fortunately, the locusts eat, and therefore breed, in arid areas. They like creek beds and feeding on barrel medic, burr medic, danthonia and other annual grasses in those areas. As the honourable member for Mackellar has said, they swarm and fly habitually perhaps 250 miles, on average, during their lifetime, and may be, if they breed because of cold fronts and frosts, they will fly 2 spans of 250 miles from their point of breeding. At present the swarms in South Australia are not dense, though spraying is being carried out by the South Australian Department of Agriculture in the Nildottee area because of the danger to vegetables presently growing there. The real danger - getting into the hypothetical area - is that an autumn migration would, I am told, be a prelude to a move into the lower pastoral and mid-northern areas of South Australia. If there were to be a hot spring and buildups of locusts due to summer rainfalls - heavy January-February rains in South Australia - the danger of a very large locust population buildup would be real indeed. However, a series of generations of locusts probably would be necessary, at any rate in South Australia, to build up the density of the swarms and the area covered by swarms both of grasshoppers and flyers. 
Finally, I think that we have to be very careful how we deal with this problem. Locusts, traditionally, have been a problem after plenty - the pestilence visited on the people. They are the oldest pests known - I suppose other than human ones. It is most important that the Government should look in future to a much heavier funding for biological 'and physical control while the locusts are on the ground and not in the air, and further, for plotting their breeding areas. I back up what was said by the honourable member for Mackellar when I say that I do not believe that enough work has been done on research into breeding grounds as a prerequisite to proper control. Much of the problem boils down to funding and on the insistence of members of Parliament like ourselves to try to make the Government, at every possible opportunity, push more funds into overcoming an age old pestilence. 
I approve very much the concept behind all of the Government's actions in relation to these 2 Bills. I can remember many years ago when I first entered this House, talking about the economic principles involved in regional development. If I may hark back to those days, I remember that the sort of argument that I used then was that at that time governments, both State and Federal, were in the habit of propping up from time to time small country industries, such as country abattoirs, in the hope that those industries would contribute to some form of decentralisation. In States such as Victoria- 
Report (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adopted. 
As I was interrupted in the middle of a sentence, perhaps I should repeat what I was saying. I believe that the whole principle of proper decentralisation and regional development is one in which governments have to grasp the nettle and infuse fairly large amounts of capital into growth areas. There is not an economist in the land who specialises in this field who has not recognised for quite a long time that this is the proper way in which to proceed- 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The new township of Monarto is within the electorate of Angas. I want to make it clear to honourable members that the Government seems to have some stupid reason for trying to gag me all the time before I can express an opinion and congratulate it on the fact that it is helping South Australia bring about this great concept. That is all I wanted to do in the first place until the ill-mannered people opposite gagged me and prevented me expressing a view. There is only one other thing I may say tonight and that is to advise the Government, as I did once before, to watch very carefully before it again proposes schemes like Albury-Wodonga upstream on any major river of this nation. For a long while now I have been anxious that the South Australian Government, or even perhaps one would hope the Federal Government, would draw up some watertight - probably that is the wrong word - or set scheme- 
I appreciate the Minister's reply to my comments. We all know that there has been a big drawing on the water resources of all the rivers that he has mentioned. I acknowledge that. My only point is that the whole increase in South Australia's water supply, which was agreed to some time ago, will come about with the completion of Dartmouth Dam. My only complaint there is that inconsistently, governments do not acknowledge the fact, as the Minister has, that there is a drawing problem, from all the areas he mentioned, on those limited water resources, and one more regional development would not exactly help. I think that even the Minister will acknowledge that it would magnify the problem. That is the point I was trying to make. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the Minister for Minerals and Energy noticed the growing list of goods in short supply, particularly articles in the building and automotive industries and more particularly those made from PVC and other basic plastics? Does the Minister acknowledge the dangerously low level of production of these articles springing from the low output of the petrochemical industry? Is this due to a lack of basic petroleum in Australia? Because Australia is not yet independent in the matter of fuel supplies and because resources have not been increased by new findings, will the Minister introduce all possible incentives for exploration in the interests of the people of Australia and in the interests of the people of the world? 
First, I want to say that many members on this side of the House will not be able to speak on this stabilisation Bill tonight even though their electorates are affected. I do not blame the Government altogether but the Bill has come in too late in the session and there is too little time for a debate of this nature which warrants about two-thirds of a day. Although the seriousness of the apple situation in Tasmania warrants such a debate, this is not to be so. I must reply to one or two of the points made by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  which I do with the greatest compassion and consideration. I also once had an unfortunate Government decision- on my own side of the House - foisted on me and I sympathise with the honourable member for Wilmot, ineffectual though he may be in getting his way in these matters. I would like to think that in time to come he can do for the apple industry what several people on this side of the House were able to do regarding the wine industry and wine excise. 
I would like to comment on the statement by the previous speaker that in spite of his best endeavours he was unable to get this 
Government to take over what he wished to see it take over - a statutory marketing authority. Maybe this is so. Big political parties sometimes have to acknowledge the beliefs of a minority section before they will swallow what could well be a good idea. I remind the honourable member in passing that at any rate a State government of my own political colour produced for the citrus industry about 5 years ago a statutory authority in that State called the Citrus Organisation Committee - COC - which within the limitations of State boundaries has been effective to a degree. Therefore, I would advise the honourable member to try his own State government and see whether perhaps the people concerned can walk before they can run in relation to these matters. 
There are differences; the citrus industry has 90 per cent of its crop sold in Australia whereas the apple industry has about 60 per cent of its crop sold in Australia. I am indebted to the member of Wilmot for telling me that 70 per cent of that production is of Tasmanian origin. I think one other thing that came out of the honourable member's speech is the point about growers' representatives whose names are to be put on the list. I would like the Minister at the table to answer this because frankly the further the honourable member went the more confused I became. From listening to the honourable member, I believe that the people whom the Minister will appoint as growers' representatives may not be growers whose names appear on the list as being having been elected by the growers' section of the industry. I am not clear on that. For instance, the honourable member said nominated' at one stage. I am frankly not clear and would like an answer to this according to the terms set down in this legislation because that was the point at issue. I would like to read from my present favourite document called 'Labor's Way' in which Labor's policy is set out on many matters including rural industries. 
I do not need to be. It is signed, sealed and delivered and I paid good money for it in Melbourne. 
It is worth every cent. Under the heading 'XV Rural' it states: 
Majority representation of primary producers upon all boards affecting the handling and marketing of their products. 
I do not know what the honourable member may or may not have said to his growers prior to the last election but certainly many people, including the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  I believe would have made some rather strange remarks prior to the last election. The Minister may have heard about these remarks before but I do not think that matters. The point that matters, as it did with me concerning wine grape growers some years ago, is whether the Labor Party will produce the goods and whether it will stick by its policy. If it agrees that there should be a majority of grower representatives on marketing boards, we need to know why it is not so in this case. Growers in the Mount Lofty Ranges in my own State where apples of good quality are grown in quite fair numbers see the problem of membership there as being a matter of appointing one more grower representative. Growers in South Australia would like to see 5 growers appointed to this 10-member Corporation. That is their opinion. I am sorry, in a way, to see that this is not proposed. A membership comparison will be made, not between this marketing corporation and other commodity corporations or bodies of a similar nature, but between this Corporation and the previous Apple and Pear Board. 
The honourable member for Wilmot would not really appreciate the problem that exists for growers in my State. On the previous Apple and Pear Board there was at least one grower representative from each State which had apple plantings, growings and production of consequence. The growers in the smaller States, such as South Australia, feel that they will not have a representative on the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. I think, frankly, that their fears are well founded. It is no use, for instance, the Government relying on the measures before the House to produce magical effects. Let us examine the position with respect to other industries. It should not be for members on this side of the House who were in government a year ago, but it should be for members on the other side of the House to make an effort to take action to achieve that result. I have dealt with grower representation on the Corporation. 
The second point with which I wish to deal is revaluation compensation. My contacts in Tasmania tell me that at present farmers are well below equitable payments in terms of revaluation compensation. I am very glad to see this matter mentioned first in the Opposi tions amendments, as proposed by my colleague the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  because it is no use to the industry or the country if the Opposition has to take the Government screaming to the growers and to force revaluation compensation out of it, as I suspect will happen in the case of fruit juices. Frankly, this is the silly position in which honourable members opposite have put themselves. They may as well stop here and now and say that there is a very good chance that before this Bill is passed some of these amendments will be accepted and will see the light of day. 
Amendments proposed from this side of the House to legislation are screened very carefully. We think these are responsible amendments. The acceptance of the amendments proposed to this legislation can do nothing but good. I am sure that, in his heart, the honourable member for Wilmot and perhaps some of his colleagues agree with me completely. I will try not to look, if there are divisions on these amendments, to see on which side of the chamber the honourable member for Wilmot votes. 
The proposed amendments, if passed, will benefit the apple growing industry in a way that is required now. Perhaps honourable members have missed the point that the apple harvest will be upon us very quickly. There is no use prevaricating on these matters. Help is needed, firstly, in the 'short term' - a phrase used by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  in referring to the meeting in Canberra last week between the Tasmanian Premier and the Federal Government. He pointed out that short term problems were discussed. Well, good luck; I hope that something comes from those discussions for the hard pressed apple growers in Tasmania. But there are matters of long term importance, some of which were mentioned tonight by the honourable member for Wilmot. 
In relation to the membership of the Corporation, at present the membership will be nine. The  Chairman  will be appointed by the Government. There will be one other Government appointee who, I trust, will be a senior and proficient member of the Department of Primary Industry. Three special appointees are proposed for this body. I cannot complain in that respect. I think the proposal is excellent. Only four of the 9 members of the Corporation will be grower representatives, and they may not even be elected by growers. We will wait to hear the reply by the Minister on that possibility. 
The current situation involves problems and anomalies. No government is perfect. We can say that with respect to the last 3 years by reflecting on the areas in which changes in circumstances have evolved. The present Government would do well to realise that fact. Circumstances have changed, even in relation to shipping, and certain conditions exist this year which were not present last year, when prices were high, or indeed the year before. Now, problems arise with respect to shipping. 
The problem that worries growers and packing sheds, for example, in my State more than anything else is that of inflation. I refer to the rate of increased costs affecting production, shipping, storage - indeed every aspect of any major industry today. In this case we are talking about the entire apple industry. The main problem today is the increase in costs. It is no earthly use, as one or two desperate Ministers have been doing lately, trying to pin inflation on the previous Government. The present Government has had 12 months in which to stop rash expenditure, to put the brakes on a little and to show some understanding of fiscal and monetary policies in order to put some brake on costs. It has been singularly lacking in success. Not all inflation, in fact very little of it, can be said to be imported. This is the major problem. There are other problems with, for instance, the Common Market and the United Kingdom. But, first and foremost, there is the problem that so many of the apples in Australia are grown in the State of Tasmania which at any rate until recently depended very much on that industry. 
Let us examine some of the problems which Tasmanians have told me are worrying them today. There is no differentiation - perhaps the Opposition as well as the Government should accept the blame for his - in favour of an apple farmer who under the revaluation compensation scheme can receive a payment of up to $1,500. That is the limit for a farmer and his wife. I believe it is true to say that if 4 people are in partnership growing apples they can each draw $1,500  -  a total of $6,000. Frankly, where is the equity in that? The Government which has kept this form of compensation in operation in this industry - I think properly, although that is arguable - should examine this point at this stage. It is not right to give partners on one orchard $1,500 each if we are aiming to help the person who is being squeezed the most. 
I am now quoting the Government's policy rather than that of my Party. So far as I am concerned, every reason certainly exists why this should no longer be allowed to occur. 1 will quote, if I may, a comment that I noticed in a speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he opened the Australian Farmers Federation conference at the Hotel Canberra on 23 October. He was speaking in relation to fruit. Referring to the withdrawal of the exemption of sales tax on fruit juice, he said: 
I  assue  you that whilst abolishing the exemption the Government is ready to provide funds to assist any section of the fruit growing industry that may be adversely affected.. 
Honourable members on this side of the House want to know where this beneficence is. We want to know where the hard cash is. 
Real problems exist today, not in areas that concern the capacity of the average Australian who earns a salary or wage which averages $107 a week, but in relation to people who are trying to exist on less than half the average weekly earnings. We have heard many stories of hardship from .the Government. Very rarely - I exempt the honourable member for Wilmot from this criticism - do we hear anything about these people who really are on the breadline. The Opposition's amendments aim to cope with this situation, both in the short term and in the long term. As pointed out by the honourable member for Wilmot, politics should not be involved in this matter. I hope that I am not being too naive when I say that perhaps half of the members of the Government Party will support one or two of our amendments if they feel that the amendments are genuine and are aimed at helping this industry. 
In conclusion, I note with some interest, as mentioned by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  that the Apple and Pear Association of Australia has been resurrected somewhat and placed in a responsible position with regard to its advisory role in connection with the Bill. I think, although I do not know for certain, that the citrus industry of Australia is looking with interest at many of the principles embodied in the background thinking of this Bill. I do not know whether the Citrus Industry Federation might in time find itself in a somewhat similar position. All I can do is to back the words of the honourable member for Murray and express the hope that these kinds of bodies examine carefully all proposals and tap opinions at grower level if they are to be placed in a similar unrivalled position of power to that of the Apple and Pear Corporation. If I have an opportunity during the Committee stage I will deal with certain factual and statistical matters. In the meantime, the growers in my area and my Party see no reason for not supporting the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Grassby)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
It is not very often that members in Opposition get a chance to agree implicitly with everything written in a newspaper. May I refer to an editorial in the Sydney 'Sun' of today's date which is headed: 'A Holiday Trip to Blunderland!'. The editorial states: 
Wake up, Australia. You've just been kins hit. In the pocket. 
Australian voters on Saturday denied Federal Labor the power directly to control prices and wages. 
Cabinet has now countered with a decision that is both inflationary in itself and dangerously contagious. 
The decision was to give 330,000 Commonwealth public servants a cash bonus on top of their annual leave. 
The measure, to cost about $35m a year, plumbed the depths of Whitlam in Wonderland. 
His two-headed Cabinet shouts for inflation cures with one mouth - and offers us inflation causes with the other. 
And this holiday handout to 350,000 pampered voters will be inflationary. Make no mistake. 
The Government is committed to making it so. 
It is committed to supporting before the Arbitration Commission a flow-on to all workers. 
Cabinet cannot excuse this staggering decision by saying that it was foreshadowed months ago. 
The public is beginning to expect a bit of belt tightening in Canberra. 
I might add that the public is evidently expected to tighten its belt to pay for this gesture by the Government. 
I do not know whether this proposal represents the reaction of the Government in a fit of pique to the outstanding vote on Saturday last when both the prices and incomes referendum proposals were answered No, No. But, sir., it is a staggering example, and an absolute justification for everything that the front bench of the Opposition and many of us on the back bench have been saying all along, that is that one cannot resort to overexpenditure without causing inflationary pressures. 
Now I turn to the matter of petroleum resources. I cannot get an answer out of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in relation to this matter on any occasion when I bring it up. Already, due to the fact that there are not likely to be increasing discoveries of petroleum resources - this will be the result of the policy of this Government, based I might add on the sort of depression mentality of the Minister for Minerals and Energy himself - and because of this- 
Listen to squeaker; words fail me. If that policy of this Government is carried to its logical conclusion, with the shortage of petroleum products in this country and elsewhere, the result will lead to every person in this nation having available to him a mini mal amount of petroleum for his own private use, let alone the defects which may be visited on the entire business and productive elements of the Australian economy. This sort of policy is blind and stupid. It is time that the Government realised that it is on the wrong foot completely and that the people of this country, and of the world, will not put up with this parochial attitude of trying not to find petroleum products for the use of the Australian people. I want to say that because it is fair, I think, that it should be said from this side of the House. The Government's policy is a shortsighted, stupid policy which is based on a bigoted obstinancy with which the Government has been foisted, and I beseech the Government to undo this policy and to search for further petroleum resources and find them. This was done previously, due entirely, I think, to the incentives for exploration offered by the Opposition, when it was in Government. 
There is another matter which I wish to raise. It is of very great concern to myself and to my electorate and it has arisen since the House last sat. The Tariff Board report on brandy protection has been presented, and the Government has accepted the recommendation not to alter the current position in relation to the protection of imported brandies. I wish to make it plain that neither myself nor the wine-brandy industry, for one minute, thinks that there should be a protection wall up against named, good quality, French or other imported brandies. This is not the intention of the industry. But the intention of myself and the industry, I think it is fair to say, is to have this Government or any government which is in power make quite plain that it will not allow to be foisted on the Australian public brandies of very questionable and doubtful origin. It is not for me to say in this place, under the protection that this House offers, what some of this brandy is made of. I let the imagination of honourable members run riot in relation to that. There has been one raw material - potatoes - from which there is reason to suppose a proportion of some of the brandies entering this country at present could be made. What happens in Australia? A brandy producer, by law, must have his spirits stored in wood for a mandatory period of  2i  years, I think. In the case of quality brandies of Australian origin, which no doubt many honourable members buy- 
The honourable member for Hunter certainly must have sampled them. The brandies which many honourable members buy have been stored for a maturation process up to 5 years. Roughly the same regulations apply also in France - there is a mandatory period there - so that people will not be poisoned by wood alcohol or by other devious materials that are questionable on health grounds alone. But these regulations in France do not apply to brandies that are exported. The complaint of myself and the industry is that the Government, at any rate, and probably the Tariff Board have not looked quite sternly enough into some of these suspect products that are being foisted on the Australian public today  -  ian unsuspecting public - in this way. In addition to increasing the excise on spirits, the equating of the differential which previously worked in favour of Australian brandy, the increase in private company taxation, the special provisions which were previously available for the establishment of vineyards with which many of these wineries are involved, the revaluation of stock of wine and brandy, the thinking section of this industry thought that when this report was introduced there would be some amelioration of the dreadful attack which the Government seems to have made on this one industry. 
What happens? There is an added impost - not the sort of impost which is not an impost according to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  although the Premier of South Australia violently disagrees with him, but one more impost on the brandy industry. Now honourable members have the picture. The increasing trend to import brandies into this country threatens to drive the Australian brandy industry out of existence. I do not think that that statement is a wild one. If it is, we have the word of the Treasurer &lt;Mr Crean) that, if the industry goes broke, he will see what he can do to resuscitate it. I remember my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  pointing out that it was a very quaint way of dealing with an industry. I go further and remind honourable members, particularly those on this side of the House, that perhaps this is part of a worse plot and a worse plan, to use the phrase of my friend the honourable member for Mackellar once again. Is it the intention of the Government to drive some of these firms from the private sector of the economy, which is what it will do, and drive them to insolvency so that it can grant them equity, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  suggested in a question recently, with funds from the Australian Industry Development Corporation? Is this what the Government has in mind. I do not know. But it is a lesson to every private businessman who is operating in a productive capacity in our economy today that governments can wilfully and ignorantly tackle industries and hit them to the extent that they are virtually exterminated from the Australian scene and then may be AIDC funds will give the Government an equity. If this is so, what better and quicker way is there to socialise vast sections of the Australian public? This is no joke to the industry that I represent. Once again I am forced to voice my deep disquiet and disgust over this latest impost foisted on the brandy wine industry. 
I would like to take up the same issue; but I will do so in a different way, not as a point of order. The Labor Government came to power some time ago with a great belief in open government. It was said that we would be allowed to see reports and they would not be hidden. The Premier of South Australia and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  are covering up and hiding reports all the time. If they wish to put themselves forward to the Australian people as representing fair government, I think that in all decency the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is yawning his head off, should say that he is prepared to table that report. I just leave it up to the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  or the Leader of the House to decide whether they are genuine or a mob of hypocrites. Surely the issue is quite clear. 
Let me deal with a couple of points made by the honourable member for Cook. I agree with him in regard to the health scheme. We on this side of the House know that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is searching the world for an alternative national health insurance scheme. He has been put to the sword by his own Party. He is wandering around, looking lost. He is trying to tap other people's brains in order to produce a health scheme. Why? The reason is that petition after petition has been presented by every member on this side of the House and a good many honourable members on the other side from people all over Australia saying they want nothing to do with the Scotton-Deeble scheme, or whatever its mythical name is, which this Government in the past has tried to foist on to the people of Australia. 
The honourable member for Cook also said that this Government was an inventive government. I can go along with that. It has invented more mistakes than any other government that I can remember in the 9 years I have been in this House. I am quite sure that with one or two exceptions, several of whom I can see looking at me now, the honourable members on the Government side will not object if 1 say that this Government is an inventive government of old, tired-out trade union hacks who are talking off the top of their heads and who are swayed entirely by the left wing of the Labor movement. The way to democratic government is not sectional rule from one area of the Australian people. The Australian people want something to say about this too. If I might go further, we see in these days of open government the complete silencing of erstwhile good debaters and people with a bit of constructive thought. What do we see today under the present Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)?  When worthwhile debates come along he keeps his own men down. He is so frightened that a split will appear in the Government ranks that the order goes out - the manifesto and the thumb screws - that: No Government members must get up in case we look as brittle as we really are'. This is the open government which we see today. We are forced on the Opposition side to look all the time for more of our members to speak in debates to take advantage of this situation. It is very generous of the Government to keep its own members down. But what has happened to the parliamentary thrust and to the to and fro of debate in which members look critically and analyse properly legislation? All of that has gone by the board since the advent of this so-called open government. I cannot think of anything that gives me more sorrow than to see the democratic process and parliamentary process so denied to the people of Australia as it has been recently on a great series of debates, which I will not bore the House by mentioning because they are well known to all honourable members. 
I would also like to refer to what was said by the honourable member for Cook about the petroleum industry. We all know that the policy of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  is to put a series of restraints on search and development in every sector of the petroleum and mineral industries. In a misguided fashion the Minister looks on himself as a nationalist. But let us have a better look at this problem. The result of his policies has been a halving of search activity. The number of wells to reach total depth has fallen from 134 in 1972 to 73 in 1973. 
That is right, and this is at a time when we are short of all the by-products of the petroleum industry. We are short of PVC with all its impact on the automotive and building industries. 
The short sighted policies of this Government in regard to the supply of plastics are threatening the future of everybody who wants constructively to do anything, whether it is building a house or buying a motor car, which one cannot get in most cities short of a 3 months wait. This situation is due largely to a policy which does no more than try to limit the supplies of petroleum found in this country. If this is not bad enough, when we look at all the companies that are so important to my State and which are operating around the Cooper Basin we can see that the Government's policy of restraint has resulted in a handing over to the big petroleum consortiums and making it impossible for Australian companies to exist. I do not know whether the Minister for Minerals and Energy regards Santos as a charitable institution. This organisation has no way of repaying the people who have invested money to help it to find petroleum, gas and condensate in the Cooper 
Basin. At the present time the company is selling gas to the Adelaide market and thanks to a Labor Government of South Australia the company has not yet paid one fraction of one per cent in interest to those who invested funds that enabled it to promote its activity in the interests of this nation. This is the experience of one company. But company after company in this country does not know what it is going to do except to close up its attempts to promote the finding of energy for the sake of the future of this nation. 
Negotiations between the companies operating in the Cooper Basin and the Australian Gas Light Co. Pty Ltd must be renegotiated in the near future. It is impossible for these companies to continue in any other way. They have been stopped by the Minister from offsetting these costs by selling condensate or LPG on other markets. These companies have nowhere else they can turn to for funds so as to pay interest on capital advanced to them by the Australian people. I suspect that this is an intentional move by this socialist Government to try to force these companies to take out their future fund requirements from the Australian Industry Development Corporation and such bodies. It seems to me that at the moment the Australian Government wants to force companies owned by the Australian people to come under public ownership. This is not a funny state of affairs. The people of Australia are more and more waking up to these attitudes. I would just like to repeat, as the honourable member for Cook has prompted my memory, that this policy that he eulogises to such a high degree is ruining every Australian company that is trying to find petroleum and energy products for the sake of the future expansion of this nation, and he should remember this. 
I would like to refer also to the problem of urban and regional development. I do this by pointing out that many groups of people today do not take the same point of view as that put forward by the honourable member for Cook. Not long ago, for instance, the Federation of Adelaide Metropolitan Residents' Associations published comments by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden")  and also comments by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  The Association concluded this very interesting document with the words:  'Mr Uren  will have to gallop out of his complacent canter that he showed prior to the last election'. The Associa tion pointed out that the speeches by my Leader on this subject give a different perspective to a lot of the problems that are talked about in the community today. This Association is a residents' action group. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! There is no obligation for the honourable member to table the document. 
If it suits the convenience of the honourable member I will be very happy to table the document so that the Parliament can have a look at it. This is such an important document that I believe that Parliament should have a look at it. It would suit my purposes extremely well to table the document. I hope that the honourable member will appreciate that we are prepared to be open in our approach to these things and not hide behind a subterfuge in the form of a paper that the honourable member appeared to me at any rate to be quoting from when making his speech. 
I would like to spend a minute of two on this matter of residents' groups because it so happens that I am a member of one myself - the Hackney development group which represents one of the inner suburbs of Adelaide. The Dunstan Government was dragged wailing to the wall by this action group which insisted that no government, whether it be an autocratic government or not, should make decisions affecting the street in which people live. The group believes that no government should make highhanded decisions affecting the suburb in which people live and that those people have a perfect right to band together and to put forward views. This action group has taken such steps. Although I cannot pretend, due to my occupations in the Australian Capital Territory, to be a very active member of the group, I am proud of the fact that I am financially involved in it. I am proud of the fact that the group has taken to the local government in the area in very round terms and has succeeded in effecting all sorts of changes for the good. Some of these changes affect thoroughfares in regard to which streets should be closed and which streets should become main roads through a suburb. These are matters that vitally affect individuals. Some of them have dealt with high rise development and a limitation of it. Some of them have proposed ideas about further tree planting schemes. All the vital energy developed locally in these areas has been entirely to the benefit of the redevelopment scheme of Hackney. I am sure that at this stage the Premier of South Australia would wholeheartedly agree, even if it took a year or two to force some of his highhanded planners to do so - I say this with respect - that there was another point of view that must be considered. 
At this point of time I do not think that many people, apart from this particular association in Adelaide, would take entirely the same view as the honourable member for Cook. He touched on a matter of very grave concern to my electorate also when he dealt with Albury-Wodonga. I do not blame his Government for doing what obviously any other government would have done at the same point in history. I refer to the development of that scheme. As I have said in this House before now, I hope that this is the last scheme that is built upstream on a major river when the people downstream are entirely dependent on the water resources of that river for their existence. At the moment 70 per cent of the committed water supplies affecting Adelaide must come from the Murray River supplies. It is a grave matter and one that should have concerned this Parliament and the South Australian Parliament far more than it has done. 
There is no written agreement - no indenture at all - promoted either by this Government or by the State Labor Government to protect the purity of water supplies reaching not only the irrigation areas of my electorate but also, as I have just explained, Adelaide itself. The per capita need for water is growing every day as facilities become more available to the average man in the street. The population is growing. There is another factor of far greater importance even than these - the need for water supplies for sophisticated new industries. I refer to Redcliffs and such industries in South Australia, the planning of which is fairly advanced. 
That is true. He won a State seat in my electorate by a rather reprehensible display of party politics, to say the least. 
The honourable member would not understand if he did listen. He never lis tens anyway. For the reasons I have mentioned I am pleased that the honourable member for Cook brought up these matters tonight because they are matters that must concern parliaments that aim to protect the quality of life of people - in this case the people of Adelaide and South Australia. In the future governments must be very careful not to build regional complexes upstream if they are going to exceed an estimated population of 200,000. There must be built in some quantitative measure of quality to protect those who have a vested interest in living further downstream in a major river system such as the Murray. I ask honourable members opposite, if any of them are listening to this speech tonight, to instigate - even if the South Australian Government does not do so - such an indenture to protect people further downstream. 
It is easy enough to talk blithely about regional development and the quality of life, but one of the points of the article to which I referred and which I will glady table later is that people must be aware of problems caused by the government action. They must have the right to form themselves into associations to protect their future interests and the quality of life as they see it. I am delighted to have had the brief chance to mention that tonight. 
The only other thing I will have time to mention is that when I listened to the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  some days ago eulogising the performance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on his recent trip around Asia I was prompted to tell the story of a friend of mine who came back from Singapore recently, prior to the Prime Minister's last visit. He disembarked from the plane and thought that he would like to buy a watch with the cash he had left. He went to the airport jeweller. They haggled for a while. Finally he said: 'Will you bring it down a bit? I can give you Australian currency for this transaction.' Very smartly he found that the people of Australia could no longer go in with their heads high thinking that Australian currency or Australian anything had very much value in the eyes of the people of Singapore. The jeweller said: T am not talking about monetary worth, sir; I am talking about Australian people who criticise and are impertinent to the leader of my nation of Singapore, and if you think you can get any special dispensation from us in Singapore you have got another think coming.' 
Certainly the Prime Minister tried very hard to patch up the damage that he had already done by his petulant behaviour on a previous trip overseas. He tried hard and, my word, he needed to try hard because that is the attitude of the ordinary person in the street in Singapore today. They do not like arrogant behaviour and rudeness to their national leader for whom, regardless of anything else, they have a healthy respect. Let us not be deceived by the high sounding words from honourable members opposite. There are many homely illustrations that point to the damage done in the last 12 months to our reputation abroad. I look forward to the day when we find the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  going overseas and trying to patch up our national reputation so that we live at peace and trade peacefully with all the countries which are our neighbours. 
 The Opposition is in accord with the Bill before the House and, having made that statement, I do not imagine there is a great deal more that needs to be said. The Bill before the House deals purely with the Australian civil service - that is, the federal commissioners on the River Murray Commission. As I understand it, the Bill has nothing to do with those superannuitants who are commissioners from the member States. 1 suppose the thing to say is that these commissioners and indeed other Federal Government civil servants involved in the work of the Commission have a great deal of responsibility to exercise, and on behalf of my Party I am pleased that the Government has taken this action to assure proper conditions of work of the commissioners who are currently involved in the work of the River Murray Commission and in order to ensure the future position of those people who might join the service in the future. In referring briefly to the responsibilities of the Commission and of the commissioners, we are particularly pleased that this action has been taken because I believe there is a great deal of rethinking that the Government probably already is undertaking and properly should undertake in relation to the function of the Commission. I am glad to see the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  at least nodding some agreement with the point of view I have put forward. There is an argument that the authority of the Commission should be spread to a greater degree than just to the area downstream from the Hume. Probably in time to come it should take in control of water resources from tributaries that feed into the main system. The Commission has  a  responsi bility of national importance to growers and irrigators and to new towns such as AlburyWodonga. 
As I have said to the House on another occasion, the main supply for the increase- in industry and the increase in water usage as facilities become greater for the average citizen of Adelaide is at stake. I hope the Commissioners who are favoured by this Bill in due course will recommend a much more stringent series of control measures to safeguard the people of my own State generally. At this stage, as I think I said last night, there is no indenture written in by this Government or by the Dunstan Government in South Australia to define quantitatively the quality of water that may appear downstream, particularly with the advent of the regional growth centre of Albury-Wodonga. 
The River Murray, as is well known to this House, has just completed a period of 18 months of near flood conditions. The water in these flood conditions enters into the billabongs and disperses salt, which has been the main source of worry to many honourable members representing growers areas in this House. While the river is running strongly and rising, the salt content is high and has the effect, of course, of flushing out the main stream and hiding what could otherwise be a dangerous condition that would affect the interests of all people, growers and others, downstream. So there is not the time that one might suppose by looking at the River Murray today for this Government and other governments to act to protect this position. I am pleased at the implication in the last paragraph of the Minister's speech that the Government is rethinking various matters including, I hope, the proposition I have brought before the House today. We support as a proper comparable condition the superannuation rights affecting the federal civil servants by virtue of the Government's introduction of this Bill. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (4.28)- I, like the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  realise that to a large degree the River Murray Waters Bill 1974 provides for only machinery amendments to the River Murray Waters Act. However, I think they have far reaching implications. I should like to mention some of these problems in the same manner as the honourable member for Angas has done. Firstly, I feel that these proposed amendments will allow the River Murray Commission to recruit staff of high qualification and ability. 
This would be less likely under the Act as it stands at present because some people, especially Commonwealth employees, would be disadvantaged if they obtained employment with the River Murray Commission. There have been problems in the application of the Officers Rights Declaration Act and the Superannuation Act to the staff of the River Murray Commission due to the River Murray Waters Act preceding those 2 Acts, and it is necessary to remove these anomalies under the Act by these proposed amendments. 
There are some doubts about the entitlement of the staff of the River Murray Commission to the benefits of the Superannuation Act 1922-73, benefits which now apply to other Commonwealth employees. This appears to me to be a contradiction of the real purpose of the Superannuation Act. The stated purpose of the Superannuation Act is to provide superannuation benefits for persons employed by the Commonwealth and to make provision for the dependants of those persons. When the amendments to the Superannuation Act were introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in May 1973 it became quite obvious that they were intended to cover such people as the staff of the River Murray Commission. These amendments were introduced to give effect to the recommendations made by Professor A. H. Pollard who was asked to report to the Government on methods available for adjusting Commonwealth fund and similar type pensions. The professor's report said that the scheme was to give not only protection but also peace of mind, and to free employees from the ever-present fear that a long retirement might bring severe financial problems in its latter years. Professor Pollard pointed out the necessary criteria for pension adjustments if superannuation schemes are to achieve their aim, namely, that adjustments should take place automatically and that the benefits should maintain their purchasing power. 
To carry out the professor's recommendations it was decided that the Commonwealth share of the pension being paid be adjusted automatically each year on the first pension payment day in July, and that the adjustments would be equal to 1.4 times the percentage by which the immediately preceding March quarter consumer price index exceeded that index for the March quarter of the previous year, providing such an increase did not exceed the percentage increase in the estimates of average weekly earnings. It is certainly a general superannuation scheme. No one would say that the River Murray Commission would be in a position to recruit qualified and capable staff, especially from government departments, if it were not in a position to cover its employees with the benefits of this great superannuation scheme introduced by the Labor Government for the benefit of Commonwealth employees, their wives and dependants. 
I am proud to be a member of the Government which introduced these very praiseworthy amendments in May last year, and I am very grateful to be present today and speaking on this Bill by which these benefits are extended to the staff of the River Murray Commission. I say this because of some bitter experience I have had with superannuation schemes which have not made automatic adjustments and provision for maintaining the purchasing power of the benefits. I am thinking of the Broken Hill Mine Employees Pension Fund. Under this scheme miners are forced to retire at 62 years of age and the benefits merely save the Commonwealth paying social service benefits to people forced to retire, because of the heavy nature of the work. I only mention this in passing because I know that the Bill before the House is to amend the River Murray Waters Act, but every time a Bill comes before the. House to amend this Act there are plenty of things to attract our attention. 
I can remember when amendments to the Act were introduced by  Sir Reginald  Swartz who was then, in 1970, the Minister for National Development. He told us that the amendments were necessary to provide for the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. Provision also was made for a suspension of work on the Chowilla Dam project. At that time we were told that the Chowilla project was estimated to cost $28m in 1966 but that the estimates had risen by 250 per cent to $68m in 1970. I hope there is more agreement on the amendments now before the House than there was on that occasion when there was much opposition to the then proposed amendments. 
If one considers the history of the River Murray Waters Act one realises how important it is that the River Murray Commission should be in a position to employ persons of ability with high qualifications. The Chowilla project was extremely important for South Australians. Undoubtedly if it had proceeded and were present now it would be a great asset to the nation in damming all the flood waters at present moving in that direction. 
When the last amending Bill was before the Parliament one provision which went almost unnoticed could have had far reaching effects on one of the cities I represent. I speak now of the agreement relating to the Menindee Lakes storage area. One small clause in that amending Bill said that the agreement would exist in perpetuity. It meant that all waters exceeding 300,000 acre feet could be used to flush the lower Murray should it be necessary to remove the high salinity in the river. If only 300,000 acre feet of water were left in the Menindee Lakes it would be but a duckpond. The provision meant that all the usable waters could be removed from that storage. Not much notice was taken of that proposal at that time and possibly people would be less inclined to take notice of it now that there is more water in the storage area, but I point out to the House that since the commencement of records in 1885 until the construction of the Menindee Lakes scheme the river has been known to cease flowing on 48 separate occasions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! I do not want unduly to restrict the honourable member for Darling but the general scope of this Bill is much narrower than the area he is now attempting to cover. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware that the total Australian export shipment of oranges to New Zealand is at risk largely due to the discrimination exercised against Australian seamen by the New Zealand Seamen's and Waterside Workers Union? What is the Government doing to preserve this valuable export shipment - in this case, worth $1.2m - for Australian producers in a situation where ample shipping would otherwise be available? 
I welcome the chance for a few minutes- 
Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Two of us, I think, have agreed to say a few words at the Committee stage rather than take up the time of the House in the second reading debate on the Wool Industry Bill 1974. Of course the Opposition has no particular dispute with the Bill for the very good reason that the industry by and large accepts all the factors that are brought forward in this Bill before the House for debate today. However, because of the fact that various pastoral finance companies and houses are finding more money for loan funds in this industry, and of course others, I thought it only right, in view of the incredible remarks of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  a moment ago, to remind him again - it must be 3 months since I have - that it was his promise during the last election campaign to make $500m available at, from memory, 3 per cent per annum interest. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The Minister is speaking to a point of order. I ask him to state the point of order. 
The whole basis of this Bill has been an attempt in one- (Honourable members interjecting) 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I cannot hear myself. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
Would you relate your remarks to the Bill? 
I was about to but you were talking at the time,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! It is often the procedure, when a point of order has been raised, for the Chair to consider for a time whether a point of order is involved. It is most difficult to do so when honourable members continue to speak. However, I ask the honourable member to continue with his remarks in relation to the Bill before the Committee. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  It is very easy to tie this matter up, if need be, if the Minister is going to become over-sensitive about it. The whole purpose of this Bill is to rearrange growers charges in relation to the 2 areas of promotion and marketing.  Speaker  after  speaker  from this side of the House has reminded the Government that if the gross proceeds of wool sink below the budgetary level, a levy of 3 per cent will be necessary to meet that budgetary level. The statutory provisions of this Bill do not provide for such a situation and the Opposition gives notice to the Minister that we will require more help for the industry. The Minister has not commented on this; the Government has not commented on this. The industry would do well to note that there has been no such comment. In fact, of course, there is no legal provision either. 
If the Minister wants to try to draw a fine point between advances made to the wool industry on the one hand, and the cost incurred by producers by the provisions of this Bill on the other, it would be a very fine point. I know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that you would have the perception to perceive that that is so. Returning to the provisions of the Bill, let me now refer to finance companies  -  I refer to pastoral houses, State banks and the whole range of such organisations - now making finance available. In September 1972 in Victoria, for instance, $78.2m was borrowed from such finance companies by rural producers compared with $57m in the corresponding period in 1971. The same sort of situation applies through the various States. The finance from those sources is loaned at high interest rates. It would be nice if the Minister's statement or so-called statement or alleged statement made to primary producers in some sectors of Australia at the time of the last election campaign were true. He made the statement that $500m should be made available if a Labor Government were elected to office. I think from memory that the interest rate was to be 3 per cent a year. 
The present situation is that the very people with whom this Bill is concerned in many instances are paying 15 per cent interest on the money borrowed to buy their plant. This is germane to the overall problem of the financial position of wool growers throughout Australia. The figures that can be gleaned from advances made recently to the wool industry support the fact that growers are still going into debt in spite of never having had it so good, as I think the Prime Minister said prior to taking away the superphosphate bounty. Yet the fact of life is that in this current day and age there is no guarantee in this Bill as to what would happen if the gross wool return sank too low. There is the financial implication that the Minister for Immigration should wake up to, even if he cannot see it. 
The only other thing I want to say - I trust,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that I will not be ruled out of order on this because I shall speak directly on the same point as the Minister did a few moments ago - is that the Minister had the unmitigated nerve to get up in this House and by implication say that primary producers are better off because of the advent of a Federal Labor Government. Nothing could be quite as absurd as this contention. We are all accustomed to the Minister's hokey-pokey and the fact that he can tell 5 stories at once. Some members of the Press told me the other day that they are so confused that they just print his Press releases because they cannot find out where he stands. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I remind the honourable gentleman that we are considering the Bill, not the Minister. 
Just a few minutes ago he made the statement by implication that the primary producers are better off because he is sitting there as Minister for Immigration. This is just past belief. In fact it is so hilariously  funny that it is hard to keep a straight face while he tells the world how his red tie or purple suit have had something to do with the increase in income and the beneficial position of primary industry today. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is straying very far from the Bill. 
I would be the first to agree with you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but the Minister made these remarks and I am just paraphrasing them. If it were not so amusing it would be very serious. Once again I say that I am not too sure that the industry has not been too lenient with this Government in agreeing to the proposals contained in this Bill. I hope that I do not live to see the day when the industry regrets taking what seems to it to be a properly responsible point of view. But if that position were to occur there will be people in the Opposition who will remind the Government of this and hold it as best they can to proper responsible action for the sake of an industry that certainly in the last 12 months has gone a long way towards again providing the back on which the social services program and other programs of this Government ride. 
I think that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for one will remember that last week I reminded the House, by way of a question asked of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  that the export trade of citrus to New Zealand, primarily from my area and areas nearby, worth about $2.2m to the producers, was in a state of some jeopardy due to a series of facts. The facts as I remember them are these: The wharf labourers* union of New Zealand, in order to support the seamen's union of New Zealand, has an embargo against the unloading of Australian crewed vessels on the Tasman trade. It is my information that they will, however, unload Israeli, Canadian and American ships on that same route. I believe that ore from the Northern Territory to New Zealand is in the same category as the export of citrus to New Zealand. 
The trade has been carried for some years by a rather antique New Zealand vessel called the Tarawera'. The 'Tarawera' must be a very small vessel because I think it made 9 trips to New Zealand and back when the citrus export season was on. During the off season this vessel carted bananas to New Zealand from nearby islands. The banana trade is now finished. The 'Tarawera' rate as put by importers in New Zealand to the industry in Australia was to go up to a figure in excess of $3 a Bruce box - for those who know the type of packaging in the citrus export trade today. This is a huge increase on past shipping rates. The New Zealand importers of this produce therefore decided that they could not go ahead with this deal and informed the Australian shippers and the Australian industry accordingly. The importers were offered space on a roll-on roll-off vessel which did not suit the type of trade. 
I gather that the Minister for Overseas Trade misunderstood the question I asked him 2 weeks ago. The Minister got up on the adjournment to correct his statement.  His  corrected statement was to advise the citrus industry that excess space existed on Australian National Line ships plying with Australian goods through New Zealand, not able to unload them, picking up more New Zealand goods, going on to America with them and offloading the goods there. This situation seems farcical enough. But the Minister for Transport assured me that there were possibilities that negotiations could be successfully concluded so that New Zealand wharfies in their attempt to protect the New Zealand seamen's union and thus the New Zealand trade could be prevailed upon to accept the prospect of unloading Australian goods carried by ANL ships. The industry is not awfully impressed with this answer, because as far as it knows this is not a prospect at the moment. However, to my great relief I found that the Minister for Overseas Trade was heading to New Zealand on a Friday at the. end of the last sitting week and I asked him to do all he could to ensure that this trade which is so important to my electorate could be sorted out. Perhaps the ANL could be allowed to unload on Tasman crossings. 
I am reminded that I have been speaking for some time on the adjournment debate. I conclude on the note that I hope that the Minister for Overseas Trade has some answer for me in relation to this matter, which is of very great concern to the citrus growing areas of Loxton, Renmark, Berri and Waikerie, the last with its fast-increasing production. As I say, the $2.2m worth of trade which is at risk is very important outside Riverland itself and to the entire Murray Valley. It may be important in terms of the Sydney citrus trade, but I am not aware of this being a factor. That is as impartially as I can put the case. 
I would just complete my remarks by saying that I hope that the stupid regulations, brought about by wharf labourers in New Zealand in this case, that militate against the free trade between one nation and another to the advantage of both must surely be overcome by some means. I think I will leave it at that and hope that the Minister for Overseas Trade has some answer to this query which is now of 2 weeks duration. 
To me it always seems to be a great shame that members of Parliament are not given much more time to debate a measure such as the Bill before the House. After all, year in and year out the Government sends us overseas on delegations and some honourable members make many trips on their own behalf. I feel that members of Parliament have much to offer in debates on matters like this. My own personal interest in this field goes back to the year I became a member of this House, which was a long time ago. I think I suggested to the Government of the day in my maiden speech that it should try to bend current tariff policies in order to allow simple manufactured goods to come into this country. It was probably coincidental that about 18 months later the Government of the day led by the Holt Ministry, I think it was, did just that. Wherever one goes in Asia today it is accepted that Australia did have a very serious battle in respect of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in order to bring about that state of affairs. The number of countries which have applied for special tariff rates to enable simple manufactured goods to come into this country has slowly grown to over 60. I would say that this is only second to the fact that Australia deals in grants and not loans in the important impact that is made in many of the neighbouring countries around us. Wherever I travel I find that this concession is greatly appreciated. 
I am rather concerned that the Government has not yet declared that donations of funds to private organisations involved in providing overseas aid may be claimed as tax deductions. I remember very clearly addressing a crowd of about SOO people at the Adelaide University not so very long ago. At that meeting the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  stated quite specifically that when a Labor government came to power in this country donations to welfare agencies of this sort would be tax deductible. We have not seen anything along these lines yet. I draw this to the attention of the Government in case by some chance it has overlooked a policy that was put forward on that occasion by at least one of its back-bench members. I do not know whether he . is influential today or not. I would like to hear the Minister at the table  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  say, if he replies later, whether the Government has any intention of helping private agencies along those lines because I believe that the honourable member for 
Adelaide was not the only one who made that statement prior to the last general election. 
Australia provides grants for developmental purposes and for all aid programs in one form or another. I am thinking of the situation as it applied to the Indonesian shopping list in recent years. Other countries give quite favourable loans but I think it is as well for this House to take account of the fact that many nations, particularly European countries do not give such favourable loans at all. In fact if one looks at the World Bank loans and the holiday period granted to recipient countries for repayment of the loan one finds that many of the quantitative figures on aid to developing areas are infinitely less beneficial to the recipient countries than would be the case if there were a straight-out World Bank loan with a holiday period of three to five years for the repayment of the capital. I think this Government has a great deal to live up to in relation to past performances by the two or three previous governments that ruled Australia. We have made major break-throughs in helping these nations to develop. Wherever I go in Asia and further afield today I find that our assistance is very much appreciated. 
The Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  in a magnificent speech put the seal on our policy in relation to this matter. He made several constructive suggestions and I do not intend to repeat anything he said. But I welcome the opportunity to make those 3 points very briefly. We know the hurry that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is in at present in relation to the Bills to be considered. I hope that perhaps the Government may take note of at least one of the 3 points. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. My memory is quite clear. I regret that I was not in the chamber for the opening 30 seconds of the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  but I think that he indicated clearly that my memory was at fault or that I played lightly with the truth. This is not so. I remember this case clearly because afterwards I was harangued by a lot of very well meaning people about why my Party would not do as the honourable member for Adelaide had suggested that night. That is my clear memory. I would deprecate it if the honourable member took this point too far because my memory is very clear on this matter. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  perhaps I could solve the situation. 
Tonight I want to refer  -  I regret to say, for the second time - to the remarkable speech made 13 months ago by that very perceptive member of the Opposition, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  On 3 May 1973 the honourable member for Mackellar said: 
Now casual vacancies can occur in two ways - either through the death or resignation of a senator or through the engineered resignation of a senator. It could be vital if the Labor Party could engineer, before the next Senate election, a casual vacancy for a long term non-Labor senator for either Queensland or Western Australia, which are the 2 vital States-- 
One seems to have become more vital than the other -  because these are the States where with 5 vacancies the split would be likely to be three to two against Labor, but with six vacancies the split would be likely to be three all. I do not know what will happen but I am ready to bet that the Labor Party will be making desperate efforts to engineer casual vacancies among the long term non-Labor Party senators for those 2 States. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  rose to a point of order and made a very perceptive comment. He said: 
The honourable member is suggesting that members of the Senate could be corrupted. 
I take up the point by using the words of the honourable member for Bowman. He said that if this occurred the Senate would be corrupted. 
Leaving aside the question of whether any member of the Senate is corruptible, the encouragement of corruption as expressed by the honourable member for Bowman is quite clear. This is precisely what has happened. Because it was politically expedient, the Government has done precisely what the honourablemember for Mackellar accurately forecast 13 months ago. Enough banal phrases have been used to describe this situation. As one who represents a small section of the people of Australia I think that deep disgust must be felt in the community about this situation. I do not intend to canvass tonight what may result in an injunction before the High Court. 
I just wish to refer to the information published recently by consultants to the Australian Institute of Agricultural Science regretting the Labor Party's attitude towards agriculture. I think that honourable members will realise that that is a conservative statement. In a recent statement submitted to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  the consultants claimed that primary producers had always adopted the policy of using profits earned in periods of prosperity for reinvestment in productive resources as a defence against future adversity. All honourable members will know the erratic nature of returns to areas of primary production. I am sorry that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is not here tonight to hear what I have to say. 
The consultants found that as a result of Government policies there is now a disincentive to invest in agriculture and a growing lack of confidence in the rural community. I would like the House to take note of this next sentence. They said that money that would previously have been reinvested to maintain normal growth is now diverted to city real estate. The consultants argued that special consideration for investment in agriculture is the inescapability of its long term nature rendering it impossible to make significant production changes in the short term. There is an immobility of resources in all aspects of agriculture which must now be recognised. One can say quite clearly that legislation introduced by . the previous Government and carried on by this Government has the effect of restructuring debts and of allowing aggregation of land in the rural areas. But there is no Government legislation before the House at present - I am trying to put forward a case tonight that there should be - to overcome the average old age of the population in certain rural areas. Only yesterday the significance of the low level of return in rural areas particularly for rural workers was mentioned by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). His  statement ties in with the report of the consultants to which I have referred. If I may, I should like to go a stage further. I will not mention tonight the $500m at 3 per cent which was the alleged promise - I will be careful - of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  prior to the last election because I want to go one stage further. For many years now we have heard from members of the Opposition as they then were but who are now members of the Government that the important principle in any democratic situation should be the principle of one vote-one value. What has the Government brought forward in relation to the referendum proposals shortly to be put before the Australian people? On the one side it has produced a plea for the implementation of one vote-one value but on the other it has run right away from this principle by bringing forward a proposal for boundary redistributions to be based on population and not on voters. 
The honourable member for Petrie says that it is a lurk. That may be right or it may be wrong. But what is certainly so is that the Government has run right away from the principle of one vote-one value. If one looks at the way boundaries will be drawn under these proposals which stupidly enough are labelled a 'referendum for democratic elections' one will find that the result will be biased away from the principle of one vote- one value. 
Let us tie in the 3 things I have said so far: On the one hand we have a high average age of people living in many rural areas because this Government and past governments have done nothing to try to encourage young people - young share farmers - to go onto rural areas. This has been done in South Australia and I have played a real part in this. In time gone by the Rural Advances Guarantee Act provided government support of up to 85 per cent on private loans to make sure that properly competent people who were experienced in their field were encouraged to take up a block of land they knew well. This Government is not doing this at present. The Government is allowing the average age in many rural areas to get higher and higher and I ask it to do something about this situation. 
Let us couple that situation with the referendum for so-called democratic elections. The Government is allowing obsolescence, if that is not too rude a word, to occur in some rural sectors. On the other hand, the referendum for so-called democratic elections will base electorates on total populace including those below 18 years of age which will give a biased result in some inner city suburbs. We must also take into account all those new Australians who have no serious aim of staying in this country. Many of them are only waiting to return to the countries from which they came or, for some other reasons, they have not become naturalised. So, there is a double bias on the one hand weighted against a bias in the other direction all of which is working against the principle of one vote-one value that so many members on the Government side have espoused for so long. Let us be fair about this. The Government is running away from its self-professed principle of one vote-one value. Let us consider the results of the recent election in Western Australia. Everybody knows that in some outflung areas of Western Australia there are electorates which have a very low number of people. But roughly speaking, the National Alliance Party received 10 per cent of the vote in Western Australia, the Australian Labor Party received 48.5 per cent of the vote and the Liberal Party received 41 per cent or thereabouts. That percentage was accurately portrayed at the last election. 
I am delighted not to he gagged for the fifth time, having been gagged on 4 other occasions in regard to matters related to this legislation. Very briefly I want to put forward a case, lest the Govern ment does not realise what it is doing, on behalf of the Cooper Basin companies in particular. The Government's policy as it affects these companies is not only tragic and irresponsible but from their point of view the situation is riddled with uncertainties. I do not know whether the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has had the benefit of reading, for instance, the report of the Santos directors which was issued recently. I think that what was contained in the report sums up the situation completely. At the present time the No. 1 problem that these companies have and which affects them so terribly is Government inspired - that is inflation. The companies have fixed contracts. The end price is being controlled, particularly in the case of the supply of gas to South Australia and renegotiations have obviously to be held. 
They would need to be, too. It is not -before time. The capital structure of these companies, which are Australian-owned as far as Santos is concerned, is being seriously eroded by Government action, and let us not run away from that point. These companies cannot raise further capital. The Minister for Minerals and Energy so frequently seems to me to miss the point that without further capital available none of these companies can continue drilling and search and this in itself must be a very serious matter when one. considers the gas supplies that are meant to come from the Cooper Basin into the Sydney area. Funds must be made available. It is hardly reasonable to suppose that these smaller companies, many of which are Australiancontrolled, can raise further capital. What has happened is that the capital structure already is limited in nature. In the case of Santos no funds have been paid out yet to the directors and this has militated against Australia's interests. 
There is no sense that I can see or that these companies can see in not encouraging Australian resources to be produced by Australian-controlled companies for the use of Australian people. It is surely past belief that anyone could seriously adopt policies that make it apparent that the taxpayers of this country have to' pay exorbitant prices for supplies of petroleum which come in from overseas when there are unquestionably available in the ground today resources that any responsible Australian government must try to develop for the use of the Australian people of tomorrow. The amount of fuel that we are using today rightly or wrongly - one can argue this on conservation grounds I suppose - is such that it is vitally necessary now for funds to be made available for exploration and further drilling. The Government record so far as it affects companies in the Cooper Basin area - and I have pointed out that many of them are Australian-controlled companies - has been little short of tragic. 
The last thing I want to say is this, because I hope that the Minister appreciates the position when he gets time to think on these matters: It is of no earthly use, for instance, not already having arranged negotiations for gas to be supplied to the Sydney market. I am informed that it takes a year and a half to 2 years for carbon dioxide trains to be constructed. One does not idly construct a pipeline or a carbon dioxide train to remove carbon dioxide and other impurities for the safety of users from, for example, the Sydney area. One does not idly continue unilaterally with one of these functions. These functions have to be established together. The problem as it will affect the people of Sydney, unless something is finally initiated very shortly, is that no company can bring on train both the line with one authority and the carbon dioxide trains with the company concerned unless some logical guidance is given by the Government to remove uncertainty and restrictions, both financial and incentive, to try to make sure that people actively try to promote a very important energy product cheaply, for the use of the Australian people. 
This is a very serious matter. I welcome the opportunity to say those few words. As the debate is to be concluded in a few minutes, I would again like to beseech the Government, if it has any intention of staying in office - and judging by its panicky performance today this will not be so - to have a look at this problem  so  that Australian investment in Australian-controlled companies can usefully provide something for the sake of the future development of this nation. So far there has been no lead or example set, and uncertainty to these companies has been the order of the day. 
It is not my intention to enter into any statement of political controversy but I go on record as saying that I knew Joe Sexton as well as many of us did for many years until I became associated with a campaign committee in his electorate. My admiration for Joe Sexton was largely founded in his adversity. After a campaign of some public notoriety at that time, particularly in my State, Joe Sexton found himself defeated. The redoubtable Andrew Jones, full of vital, youthful energy, was one aspect with which Joe Sexton had to cope. Of course another aspect was the changing nature of the seat of Adelaide at that time. But I must say on behalf of those who worked closely with Andrew Jones at that time that Joe Sexton in defeat, with the amount of help and encouragement which he gave personally to a young member regardless of political affiliation, was the object of very great admiration by many of us. Many of Joe Sexton's family live in Mannum in my electorate. To them and to the rest of his family I express my great sympathy at his passing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
I will take only a few minutes of the time of the House. I just want to make one quick point. In the past we have heard members of the Australian Labor Party - the Don Dunstans and the people who have done a good job - say: 'We believe in one vote one value'. But what has this destitute bereft Party done today? It is seeking to achieve the reverse. It has cast aside the principle of one vote one value and is trying to introduce a system based on one person one vote. This is not the same thing as the principle of one vote one value. There are different degrees and numbers of people in electorates all over this country. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is in charge of the Bill, represents a pocket sized electorate based on the number of voters. In his electorate he might have many children, many Australians who are not naturalised and many people who are not on the electoral roll. The Labor's Party's principle of one vote one value has been cast aside today. The Party's past history in relation to this matter has been ignored as is evident in the Government's attitude to these Bills. 
If this is not bad enough in itself, one can go a step further. The other step is this: Unless you hold redistributions every year or two - this was the point made so well by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  a while ago - you will get a buildup. From memory, because I do not have the figures in front of me, the old electorate of Bruce went from 38,000 people up to 130,000 people within 6 or 8 years. 
All right- 1 1 years. Does the honourable member agree with that? The fact was that during that period of time there was no redistribution. What happened to the principle of one vote one value in that case? We need not worry about the pros and cons of why redistributions were not held. But it is an historical fact that the size of the seat increased from 38,000 to 130,000 in, say 11 years. This sort of thing will happen again if this legislation is passed. What will happen to the principle of one vote one value that the Labor Party espoused? A double error will be made under the Labor Party's new theory. I have dealt with the. first one. There is possibly, indeed probably, another error. What the Labor Party proposes is just not on. I am proud to say that there is to be a new regional development area in my electorate - the City of Monarto. For all we know the same population growth might occur there. The very practice of allowing a 20 per cent variation has on past performance encouraged the principle of one vote one value. It has not done the opposite. I am fed up when I sit here and listen to this new Party line taken by the Government which to my mind has forgotten the very principles which it has espoused for so long. I do not respect the Labor Party for it. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Did his Department, in its evidence to the motor industry hearing before the Industries Assistance Commission, warn that severe unemployment in Adelaide, Launceston, Albury, Geelong and Ballarat would result from Government decisions causing even modest reductions in activity in the motor industry? Does he agree with these expert views put forward by his own Department? 
I think the honourable member for Boothby might take note of the point of order before I have to remind him any further of the matter being discussed. 
On 20 March 1974, I addressed a question to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  By the way, I did let the Minister know that 1 intended to raise this matter tonight- 
I was about to say that I understand that the Minister is not very well. He will understand the reason for me rising- 
Your sheer arrogance is a source of complete amazement to me. To think that you would suggest- 
To think that any member would deny the rights of a fellow elected member to put a point of view would always be beyond me. But that has always been the attitude of some people in this House. Anyway, my hope is that I can get some glimmer of intelligence from the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in reply to the allegations that I am about to make. I will not not take the matter any further than that. The Minister may not be informative. 
On 20 March of this year, I asked the Minister for Transport a question. In that question I inquired whether the Minister could do anything to stop the quite futile waste of money and effort for everybody by overcoming the situation in which the New Zealand Waterside Workers Union, in its attempt to protect the New Zealand Seamen's Union in relation to a whole series of measures, was refusing to unload Australian-staffed ships. I drew attention particularly to the effect that this action was having on the citrus industry in my home State of South Australia and in the State of Victoria. At the time, my approach to this matter was quite low key. I am not so prone to adopt that approach now. The Minister misunderstood completely my question and gave me a wrong answer. That was the first debacle. 
The Minister apologised to me; I accepted his apology. That night, in the course of the adjournment debate, the Minister read the correct answer which had been fed to him in the meantime. The substance of his answer was that if I spoke to representatives of the industry concerned and suggested that perhaps the Australian National Line could assist in this matter he would be prepared to help. The problem was this: Because of the action primarily of the New Zealand Waterside Workers Union the freight charges on imports by New Zealand of oranges from South Australia and Victoria - these imports are worth S2m per annum - were due to rise by more than 50 per cent. This prime export market was held at risk. 
I next approached the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who was on his way to New Zealand to hold trade discussions. It seemed to me that it was a golden opportunity for the  Deputy  Prime Minister to take up this matter and perhaps solve the problem for an important small section of the Australian community. This is a situation where producers are trying to earn export income but because of foul-ups in the system they have been frustrated. The  Deputy  Prime Minister was most polite to me and said he would do what he could but shortly thereafter there was an election followed by a strike by marine and power engineers. The problem is no longer concerned only with New Zealand waterside workers; it is now within the sphere of Australian unions which are attempting to resolve their situation, but this is all affecting an important shipment of citrus fruits to New Zealand. This is a trial shipment to try to meet the specifications of New Zealand importers. The ship on which this consign ment is loaded has been held in port for  2i  weeks and its cargo is deteriorating. 
The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  is familiar with the historical background to this matter. My present concern is whether the Minister and Government supporters with their vast union backgrounds can do anything to try to protect minority sections of the Australian community. This trial shipment of oranges is now of doubtful quality. If it does not reach New Zealand in one hell of a hurry that trial shipment will be valueless and Australian exporters will lose the opportunity of earning S2m. This may seem small fry to Government supporters but it represents an important sum to the industry concerned. About 3 days ago a telex message was sent by the industry, through  Mr Henwood  who resides in my electorate, to  Senator Wriedt.  It read: 
We request your urgent support in seeking dispensation by the Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers to release the vessel Australian Endeavour presently strike bound in Port Melbourne. 
South Australian and Victorian growers have loaded on this ship 25,000 cases of oranges worth SA 154,000 for discharge New Zealand ports and face a complete loss if further delayed. 
Oranges were loaded by 27 June and vessel has been idle since. 
The fruit is now beyond all recommended storage time and will out turn adversely if delivery is delayed. 
This shipment together with one later on the Australian Exporter was to be a trial to satisfy New Zealand importers that satisfactory shipping arrangements are available following unsatisfactory results from the only other ships available. 
All other shipping alternatives frustrated by severe union restrictions on Trans Tasman trade but New Zealand can purchase and ship oranges from any other port of the world without these restrictions. 
The New Zealand importers currently are threatening, logically enough, to seek fruit from California to meet their requirements. The telex continued: 
We have been advised today by New Zealand that if we can not effect prompt delivery by the Australian Endeavour they will have no alternative but to cancel future shipments and obtain their supplies from California. 
We are not over reacting when we state that this will mean the loss of this important market worth seasonally $2m to the citrus industry and the chance of revenue of $lm to A.N.L. 
Could we please induce your personal intervention to arrange the immediate release of the Australian Endeavour. 
That, in a nutshell, is the problem. What a sorry state this nation has reached when people whose incomes average from $11,500 to $18,000, according to the Minister himself, are holding up shipments to another country to the detriment of this nation and a lot of growers who exist on a fraction of those incomes. These producers are being sorely hit by this industrial action.  Mr Speaker,  you will appreciate that I am not tying all the fault to the particular trade union concerned. This has been just a chapter of the misfortunes and tragedies visited on small sections of the Australian public because of the power of people to stand up the rest of the community. Shortages, frustrations and delays have been the order of the day for small business, primary producers and everyone else in the community. I have expressed myself with some feeling. Many honourable members opposite have a trade union background and I suggest that some of them should get off their seats and try lo solve these industry problems. I have completely omitted reference to the failure of the Government to control rising inflation but it is unquestionable that inflation is responsible for some areas of union disputation today. One can hardly blame members of unions for the attitude they adopt. Earlier 1 stressed that when I raised this matter first 1 played it in low key but I have displayed some heat this evening. A prime export market could be lost because of fiddle faddle and because militant asses do not know what they arc doing and do not care who they damage. 
I hope the honourable member is not looking at the Chair. 
The fate of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority is not certain at this stage, and the relationship of its position to a minerals code has not been established. I might ask: What has been established in relation to the mining industry? The Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1968 contains, in effect, a code for the exploitation of petroleum resources in offshore areas and is, in the broad, a collective agreement between the States and the Commonwealth for a uniform system of administration. I think those words were probably written when we had federalism. If one tried to get this sort of approach these days the miracle of the loaves and the fishes would be kindergarten stuff by comparison. This legislation is still applicable and presumably will remain applicable until the Minister introduces a code to supplement the Commonwealth's claim to offshore sovereignty in respect of petroleum resources in the same way as this code relates to mineral resources. I will come back to that in a moment. 
We have the situation where the Parliament is asked to approve a code for the development in offshore areas of all mineral resources. Its validity is ultimately dependent upon a High Court challenge while a code for the development of petroleum resources is the subject of a Commonwealth-State agreement. It would seem logical that a combined code for mineral and petroleum development should be introduced at the appropriate time instead of this sort of strip tease process of the Minister's legislative thinking. I suppose I will be accused now of being permissive but I think there is no better way of describing that particular process than as a strip tease process - little by little. But the excitement does not mount as the strip tease process develops because there is too much gloom in this industry and the future is so insecure. 
This mining code indicates that the Minister intends to operate, in respect of minerals, on a basis fairly similar to the previous lease basis and has rejected, for example, an option system of application. Yet, what are the Minister's intentions in respect of petroleum resources? How do they relate to this legislation? We do not know and no one can ever get near enough to the Minister even to ask him the time of day. Similarly, the associated Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill provides for royalty payments of between 1 per cent and 10 per cent of the specified value of the minerals. Yet again we have no policy statement from the Minister of his intentions in respect of royalties on petroleum resources. So, the vague, nebulous situation becomes more and more accentuated. 
The Opposition has called for a White Paper on the Minister's portfolio. This call is directly related to our attitude to this legislation. If the Minister proposes that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, or, indeed, the Australian Industry Development Corporation is to hold a privileged position in the allocation of offshore leases, this should be publicly stated, as should his requirements for the acceptable level of Australian equity or control in these offshore leases. 
I make the point here that I have attained one of my life's ambitions, even though it is in a shadowy way. I am the Opposition spokesman - the shadow Minister - on northern development and the Northern Territory. Just about every significant mineral resource in Australia, with the exception of some resources in the southern parts of the nation, is within this area. I have made it my business over a period of perhaps a quarter of a century to learn the thinking of the mining industry at all levels. One matter is bugging it at all levels and is stifling and breaking the small producers who have invested in equipment in the hope that they might know which way this industry is heading. They are trying to see some sort of shadowy indication of the guidelines which the Minister and his Government have in mind for the future of the mining industry. The general opinion is that the Gov.erenment has injected the serum of nationalisation and that this will continue to grow. 
Of course honourable members are aware of what has happened in many countries. We agree with participation to a point. Who would argue against it? But 'what of regimentation of the industry - a tap on the shoulder and a direction to appear before the court tomorrow because a lease is to be taken away? We would never agree to this. I would say that on that basis alone the results of the recently held elections were not surprising because I am not aware of any mining centre where the so-called Labor Party did not sustain dramatic losses. I instance my electorate which is absolutely riddled with mining operations and mining development. The people at all levels, in these areas showed their non-acceptance of the regimentation of the mining industry. 
If the Minister, as he has implied, insists on a majority Australian participation as a prerequisite under Commonwealth administration, the criteria for the granting of exploration permits and licences are much more specific than indicated in the Bill. Again, this is a nebulous airy-fairy type of approach. Similarly, the associated legislation dealing with royalty payments contains reference to a wide range of possible royalty levels and gives no indication of possible policy to take account of, for example, differing cost situations. Again we come to a diversity of situations. For instance, there can be a mining operation adjacent to the coast - for example, some of the coal mining operations in the Bowen Basin in my own electorate. But in the heart of Australia at Tennant Creek freight costs - I make the point here that freight costs will be a damn sight higher when the freight subsidies are removed - are high and there are obvious disadvantages in being thousands of miles from the centre of activity. How on earth can we have uniform legislation or uniform controls to apply to these various areas? We have no statement from the Minister as to how this mining code differs from his intentions in respect of the all important petroleum code. He has given no indication whatsoever. If, as we suspect, there is to be a substantially different code dealing with petroleum products, this Parliament should be told and the industry generally should be told. 
A few moments ago I mentioned the differing cost situation and royalties. I wonder whether the Minister would be tolerant enough - I ask the honourable member for Blaxland perhaps to discuss this matter with him - and big enough to come to Queensland to have  discussions with Gordon Chalk, the Queensland Treasurer, who has recently returned from overseas having secured a 1900 per cent increase on the royalties which currently are being paid on our coal exports. This is an absolute triumph for the so-called people who swing hands with the multi-national organisations. I repeat that if, as we suspect, there is to be a substantially different code dealing with petroleum products, this Parliament should be told and the industry at all levels should be told. 
We have no statement as to Government intentions in respect of assisting State governments which have benefited from royalty receipts if the Commonwealth's position in the High Court is upheld. Where will they finish up? The Opposition believes that with respect to minerals and petroleum there should be a comprehensive code which is unified and consistent. We believe that it should be accompanied by a comprehensive White Paper on the Minister's policy intentions in his portfolio so that we are not debating suppositions. I repeat that: We believe that it should be accompanied by a comprehensive White Paper on the Minister's policy intentions in his portfolio so that we are not debating suppositions. I think in the whole of this terrible drama of disaster for the mining industry we. in this House, have constantly debated nothing but suppositions. 
Apart from these reasons we reject this legislation as the minerals code it contains is at variance with the conclusions of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources. Let the people of Australia understand that this Senate Committee went into great detail and sat over a period of many months. This report pointed out the dangers of unlimited ministerial discretions which this legislation contains in abundance. 
I referred a little while ago to decisions to be made by the High Court. The Commonwealth Government has repeatedly asserted that the only proper way of resolving the present disagreement over off-shore sovereignty is to take the matter to the High Court. This the States have now done. Here is the extraordinary situation. Nevertheless the Commonwealth insists on introducing legislation which, if passed by the Parliament, could well come into effect before the High Court has given its decision. In this connection we all know that both of the present Bills are designed to come into effect on the day of royal assent. There will be no time wasted there. The whole exercise is an invitation to even further confusion in the area of off-shore mining, to even further confusion in the whole mining industry of this nation. We on this side of the House totally oppose this Bill. 
A few minutes ago the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  attempted to chastise - if I may use a kindly term - the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for not talking about remedies. I think that the honourable member for Wannon quite clearly explained to the House and to the people of this country that there are differences between the statistics of man-hours lost through industrial disputes under this Government and those of man-hours lost due to similar industrial situations when the Opposition parties were in government. One of the things that the Opposition aims to do today is to make these comparisons. The honourable member for Wannon is not the Minister for Labor; the Minister at the table is. 
The Opposition is not short of policy nor 'has it ever been. Statistics may prove that point very well when I come to compare them in a minute. I ask honourable members to exercise patience because, as the former honourable member for Riverina used to say, statistics cannot lie. Having established that point, let me say that the other thing that I see as the Opposition's role - evidently the Minister sees it differently - is to insist on bringing before this Parliament and before the people of Australia problems, anomalies and, in our view, wrongful doings. The Opposition's job is to promote that role. It is not the Minister's job to wipe his hands of the problems. It is not his job to say to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  'I do not know about these things' and at least to imply - I hope I am not being unkind - a disinterest in the question which the honourable member for the Northern Territory posed to him only this morning. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  rose in this House and said: 'You did bo better. What we are doing is what you did. I do not intend to intrude on industrial events that are taking place now.' But the very point of this debate is to reveal to the House that the conditions are far from the same. The conditions that apply today are extremely serious. Honourable members on this side of the House would be derelict in their duty as members of the Opposition if we did not make this point to the House today. That is what we intend to do. 
A while ago the Minister for Labor and Immigration said that the honourable member for Wannon was all talk. I would like to draw to his attention an article from the 'Sydney Morning Herald' dated 19 September 1972 headed 'Less Industrial Strife' under ALP. Is that not all talk? What do the figures show? I will come to them in a minute and I will make my point very plain. The Leader of the Opposition at that time, who is now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  tried to point out to the people of Australia that they could expect industrial peace if the Australian Labor Party were elected to government. What is the sorry record since then? I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard Table 2 of the latest issue of statistics from the Australian Bureau of Statistics in Canberra. The table gives a breakdown of different industries year by year from 1969. 

<graphic href="089131197407243_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

The only matters I wish to draw from these statistics are the following: As the honourable member for Wannon just said, in April 1974 there were 936,100 working days lost in Australia as a result of 239 industrial disputes involving about 600,000 employees. This was the second highest number of working days lost in any month since monthly figures became available in October 1969. It follows the record level of March. Honourable members ought to stop to consider what the statistics will show for the months of June, July and August. The second point I wish to make is that in April the metal products, machinery and equipment industry lost 356,400 working days, due mainly to stoppages in all States in support of claims for a new metal trades award. Comparing the period January to April 1973 with the period January to April 1974 we find that the number of working days lost went up not by 20 per cent or by 100 per cent but by 20 times. Looking at the statistics in the table which I have incorporated in Hansard I find that for the construction industry the number of working days lost, comparing the period January to April 1973 with the same period in 1974, has risen by 9 times. That is the sorry record with which we are faced today. 
I suppose it is apposite to the debate to see what strikes are excluded from the official statistics. They exclude strikes of under 10 days' duration, go-slow strikes, rolling strikes, overtime bans and working to regulation. Those figures do not include those people who had been declared redundant or who had been put out of work because of a lack of materials which arose from strikes in other fields or in other factories. 
Let me refer to some of the strikes 'that are not included in this table. The whole of South Australia recently ground to a halt - to the grave disadvantage of all sorts of people including the consumers, those in hospitals and those in nursing homes - because there was a bakers' strike and a strike in the milk industry at the same time. One could debate the pros and cons of that situation. I would have thought that the Government in that State and the Arbitration Commission or the wages authority had their necks out a long way when they gave to bread carters a much higher award than was given to the people who make the bread. I think this is elementary. But this is the sort of thing we find happening in many fields today. It makes one wonder whether people should undertake retraining courses. One also wonders whether people should worry about getting qualifications because frequently those without qualifications are paid more than those who have qualifications. But that is another matter again. 
This strike that upset the whole of South Australia to a dire extent was, as I understand it, of short duration. The figures for man hours lost in it would not be included in the official figures which are available. Yet surely one would have to go a long way to find a strike situation which upset the ordinary people in the community more than the twin strikes that took place in South Australia simultaneously. They are examples of the number of man hours lost due to strike action which would not be included in those official figures to which I referred. Another example is the strike by the Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers which upset the whole of Tasmania and caused unemployment. There is also the present barge strike taking place at Darwin. I understand that all but one of the barges which are normally employed around the coast of the Northern Territory have been brought to a standstill. The union secretary who is involved in that strike has already stated that if all the barges were in use an additional 10 people could be put on to the wharves. Quite frankly our only complaint about this sort of thing - and a lot of it is caused by the Government's economic policy - is the lack of leadership shown by the Government both on the industrial side and more importantly on the economic side. 
I suppose that one could go a stage further and get back on to a hobby horse which I hope I have played in low key at any rate before today and say that today in State parliaments and to a lesser extent in the Federal Parliament there are many ex-trade union secretaries. This applies more particularly to the State parliaments. It has always eluded me completely why these ex-trade union secretaries having been elected to parliament seem to divorce themselves from any responsibility in industrial relations other than the one they previously had. Time and again we see perfectly good trade union secretaries - even though to some of us their accents might seem to be extraordinary - elected to parliament but once they are elected they forget their new responsibilities and still think they are trade union secretaries. I would like to see these sorts of people do something for the good of the community. I should like to see them try to exercise their seniority and their judgment to ensure that stupid and irres ponsible strikes do not continue to the disadvantage of the community. It is not good enough for these members of Parliament to come into this place unless they alter their thinking and understand that their role and responsibility now is to look after the community and not just the unions from which they came. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the  question  be  now put. 
 There are one or two points I would like to clear up in my own mind. I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  whether this matter is to go before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Thank you. 1 was just clearing up the point. Some doubt arose in my mind because of the way in which the debate developed. I take into account the remarks of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  about what is quarantine by definition and what is not. If this matter is to go to the Public Works Committee, I hope that the Committee will take into account very seriously the problem of location of quarantine centres. I stress this again. I am not looking at the animal health laboratory to be established in Geelong as necessarily being a quarantine centre or the only quarantine centre, if it is to be one, in Australia. The Minister for Housing and Construction is referring to the Public Works Committee for scrutiny a proposal for an animal health laboratory to cost $56m. I think the Committee should be able to broaden its own reference so that it can look at the safety of this nation in terms of protection from diseases such as foot and mouth disease. It should consider the question a problem in Indonesia. It should study the potential danger from the Balinese cattle that are roaming loose on Cape York Peninsula and which represent a very real threat to the animal industries of Australia. 
The second most serious exotic disease unquestionably would be blue tongue, which is now rife throughout America and is a worry to this country's livestock industry because of importations. I trust that the very purpose of the animal health laboratory will be to look into the matter of transplantation of pre-fertilised ova, which is the modern method of importing strains into this country to the benefit of the entire livestock industry. This is a very important breakthrough. It is much more effective in the livestock industry than was artificial insemination, which does not produce the pure bred article. The capacity to bring into this country pre-fertilised ova in the womb of, say, a rabbit or any other available animal, subject to restrictions properly placed on such importation by the Australian Government, represents a real way of ensuring the introduction of new strains into this country in many breeds of livestock without many of the consequential risks because of which the Government quite properly stopped the importation of livestock into this country. 
Within these parameters - I hope I am not completely outside the ramifications of the motion moved by the Minister - I point those things out. If by chance in the future any quarantine facility is to be associated with the laboratory at Geelong it would be a wrong move. It would be far too close to centres of population. I finish by sounding a brief note of warning in relation to location if the function of the laboratory was broadened to include a quarantine station. 
There is no point of order but I suggest to honourable members that a little less conversation in the aisles would be helpful to the honourable member for Cook. 
What type of service are the patients getting from the emergency services? Frequently one doctor has to look after a vast area of Sydney. Invariably people who are seriously ill - they would not have taken the trouble to ring their doctor out of hours if they were not ill - find they have to wait for hours or have to be transported to the nearest public hospital for treatment in the outpatients' clinic. This is not a fallacy. This is happening daily. It happened to a very good friend of mine the weekend before last when he had quite a severe coronary. He could not get a doctor and had to be transported by his wife to the nearest public hospital - with all the dangers that are inherent in that procedure before he received treatment. He was admitted to the heart clinic in that hospital in a serious condition because he was not able to get a doctor to treat him. 
I must say that I was disappointed at the lack of depth in the speech of the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan).  From a person of his background one would have hoped for some proper study of the problems of the dairying industry and some worthwhile suggestions as to their solution. However, such was not forthcoming. Perhaps the honourable member did not have time do his homework properly. I think this legislation needs to be viewed on the basis of the great need for structural reform in the dairying industry. This Bill does not meet that criteria. The Bill needs also to be viewed against the lofty aspirations the Government had until recently of looking at the dairying industry from a national viewpoint. Apparently the Government has given up so doing. In fact a telegram from the industry to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  prior to the last election received the response from  Senator Wriedt  that his Party now stood for a viable dairying industry in each State. This was a disappointment to those people in the industry who were prepared to think for themselves and who were trying to achieve greater efficiency within the industry. Unless the proposals in this Bill are considerably patched up in a later Bill to which reference has been made one can imagine the disappointment of Professor Gruen, for instance, and of officers within the Department of Agriculture itself. If I have time I will expand in depth on this aspect. 
The Bill aims to broaden legislation introduced some years ago by a Liberal-Country Party government. People within the industry are pleased with the proposed broadening. One could question whether action should have been taken as is proposed. I shall do so later. However the point I make is that the industry itself is rightly extremely pleased with the broadening of the provisions in this Bill relating to marginal dairy farms. 
4 might respond to the 'hear hear' I heard by saying that I have listened to some of the greatest economic nonsense I have ever had the displeasure of hearing in this House. I will elaborate on this matter presently. The honourable member for EdenMonaro produced some statistics, which I will not repeat, indicating a decrease of almost onethird in the number of dairy farms in Australia during the last few years, particularly since 1969. I have shown a table concerning payments under the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and to save time I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Government satisfied that payments made by the Film and Television Board are in the taxpayers 'interests and the interests of the Australian film industry. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government announced its intention to replace the Film and Television Board with an Australian film authority. 
Does the Government see the danger of appointing people who may have a vested interest on to such an authority. 
What protection can smaller firms in the smaller States expect from such an authority. 
Has an audit been made of the expenditure of the Film and Television Board; if so, has it been made public ; if not, why not. 
-On 15 May 1973, on behalf of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr. Gorton)  I moved an amendment to the Cities Commission Bill to omit a clause and to substitute other words. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  accepted the amendment on behalf of the Government. The purpose of the amendment was to increase by two the number of persons on the Advisory Committee of the Cities Commission to allow the appointment of 2 persons with a specialised and expert knowledge of preservation and conservation of the environment. I was prompted to take an interest in this matter because of its importance to the State of South Australia and the towns I represent in that State downstream on the Murray River from AlburyWodonga, in relation to conservation, the various aspects of the ecology of the river, and pollution. It was important to put someone on that advisory committee to look after the possible pollution of the River Murray downstream from Albury-Wodonga. 
My audience tonight is not exactly great. I notice that my friend, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is the sole backbencher present on the Government side. A latecomer has now entered the chamber. Of course, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Bowen)  has to be here. The importance of the action I took, to my electorate and indeed to the whole of South Australia, was that it was an attempt to ensure that in the future, when half a million people may be living in Albury-Wodonga, the quality of water downstream from that point will have specialised attention and care with the appointment of 2 environmentalists to look after possible pollution. I think it is absolutely correct to say that if half a million people live in an area nothing much can really be done to control pollution downstream. Although 60 per cent or 70 per cent of the total water requirements of South Australia come from the Murray, the State and- if one will forgive the comment- more importantly the towns downstream which I represent, have no protection built into any indenture agreement with the Commonwealth relating to the quality of water that will in future flow downstream from Albury-Wodonga and on which the State of South Australia is becoming more and more dependent. 
That was the reason behind my interest in the amendment. As I said, the Parliament, not just one or two people, accepted the amendment. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development, on behalf of the Government, said that he wanted to co-operate with the Opposition, and he agreed to accept the amendment I moved. Though I had described Professor Walsh as coming close to meeting this general description, the Minister pointed out that perhaps Professor Walsh should be described more accurately as being more than just close to meeting this description. We all departed extraordinarily happy. Everyone agreed that Parliament had done a good thing and we waited with interest to see what the Government did in appointing 2 persons who had specialised and expert knowledge in the preservation and conservation of the environment. 
Some time later the Minister made 3 appointments. My arithmetic does not seem to be quite correct, so I must imagine that one member of the Advisory Committee to the Cities Commission had resigned in the meantime. The Press release that I have before me is dated not 15 May 1973 but 6 December 1973, some 6 months later. The Minister appointed  Ms Anne  Gorman, a social worker and assistant lecturer at the Riverina College of Advanced Education at Wagga Wagga. Secondly he appointed  Mr McCartney, chairman  of the Development Corporation of New South Wales and assistant general manager of Petersville Australia. I hope that the House will note that neither of those persons could exactly be described as being an expert in the field of the environment or conservation. 
But a problem is added to the situation when we consider that after Parliament had accepted this amendment- after the Minister, on behalf of the Government, had accepted it- the Minister then appointed a person named  Mr Jack  Mundey, a conservationist and Treasurer of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Builders Labourers Federation. I hope by now that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is sitting at the table will begin to perceive the problem that exercises my mind. In all sincerity and honesty, on behalf of this side of the chamber I moved that 2 persons who had specialised and expert knowledge of preservation of the environment and conservation be added to the Advisory Committee of the Cities Commission for the very purpose that I have stated to the House tonight. But what have we got? We have got a bosom friend of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development from the far Left of the Australian political spectrum,  Mr Jack  Mundey, appointed to one of 2 positions that Parliament said- not only the Minister said it- should conform to the description of a person who was expert in the field of the environment and conservation. Instead of 2 such persons being appointed, we have appointed one person who in my judgment does not conform to the description that Parliament gave to the Minister and which the Minister accepted. 
I suppose that it is not for me to become political or anything like that in the adjournment debate, but it seems to me that bosom pal relationships can go far enough in this matter. If the Minister is buddy-buddy with Jack Mundey, that is his business, but I maintain that the Minister has not done the right thing by a decision of this House. There have not been 2 experts in environment and conservation appointed to the Advisory Committee of the Cities Commission. Anyone who tried to justify the position in that way would be guilty of great hypocrisy. That is the present position. We have got, I think, the present Treasurer of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Builders Labourers Federation as representing, might I say, onethird of the Parliament's decision to appoint to this important Advisory Committee 2 people who were competent in the fields of the environment and conservation. The Minister has met the request of Parliament by one-third. As the person who moved the amendment I think that I am entitled to ask what has happened to the other two-thirds. Three extra appointments have been made in complete contempt, as I see the position, of Parliament which accepted this amendment on 15 May 1973. 1 do not know how honourable members opposite could justify the appointment of  Mr Mundey  in relation to the description that I have already given to the House. I suppose they will say that he interested himself in environmental matters in relation to strikes against green belt projects and other building problems in the State of New South Wales. 
I am quite sure that he was a very enthusiastic but misguided amateur in many ways. I think that even the honourable member for Hunter would not say that he conforms with the definition that the Parliament accepted. I expect that is true. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Hunter has reservations, but I think he will agree that I am perfectly entitled to raise this matter in the House tonight. I am sorry that I did not let the Minister know that I was going to raise this issue but I did not visualise that there would be an opportunity for me to speak in the adjournment debate tonight. To be quite proper I should have done so and I apologise to the Minister for not having done so. I hope that he will come into this House in due course and explain why he flouted the authority of the Parliament by appointing one of his bosom pals- Jack Mundey to two positions that this Parliament said should go to people who were expert in the fields of the environment and conservation. I think that needs an answer. I would be very interested if the Special Minister of State, who is sitting at the table and who seems to be the Minister for all things, at all times and in all places, could answer me. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I would suggest that the honourable member for Kooyong tie his remarks to the subject before the House. 
Asian Development Bank Bill is part of the overall aid program.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am not prevented from alluding frequently, as you have requested me to do, to the assistance we are granting under this Bill and how it relates to other aid programs. 
I am most grateful for that. When one listens to the people who hold themselves out as espousing the cause of the international brotherhood of socialists, one would think that the benevolence that exuded from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in 1972 would have been transmitted into action. But in fact, the amount fell below that which the previous Government funded for developing countries overseas. It is right and proper that under this legislation we should be making the contribution for which we gave undertakings. We are executing those undertakings. This aid has to be looked at not merely as a contribution through the Asian Development Bank but also as part of our aid program. It is true that this measure comes in as a Treasury Bill but the Government also claims it as part of its aid program, so the fact that the Treasurer and not the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this House, introduces this measure, does not detract from Australia's aid program. I compliment the Government for executing its duty to the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank by introducing this Bill, but I draw the valid point that Australia's aid contributions fell below the amount allocated in the Budget. Any person who took an interest in aid programs over the last 6 months would know that the Government has been shovelling money out like a man with a dozen arms trying to get up to the amount that was allocated. Even then the Government could not do it. But at least in this Bill the Government is meeting the contribution that it undertook to make to the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank. 
The point I was raising, before the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  interposed with a few remarks, was that not only did aid fall below the amount allocated in the Budget last year, but also its performance in the calendar year 1973 fell below the amount allocated under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. But the important point for people in this Parliament and those interested in aid programs to rememberit is often difficult when measures such as this are brought in by a Treasurer- is. that the effectiveness of an aid program is what counts. It is not the actual amount of money that one gives, it is where that money goes. So although we are executing our duty under the Asian Development Bank, it is the way in which the money is spent which is of primary importance. I will be turning to that point in a moment. 

 Mr Robert McNamara, the  President  of the World Bank, has repeatedly given a warning. I shall cite his words, as I have done previously in this House. He said that the benefits of growth are not equitably reaching the poor, and the poor are not significantly contributing to the growth. In other words, in the poorest countries economic growth is least, population growth is fastest and the effects of escalating prices for oil and fertilisers can wipe out economic gains. As aid recipients, poor countries often fail to show improvement in living standards commensurate with the amounts they receive from donor nations. If 75 per cent of development assistance goes to only 40 per cent of the people- this is generally agreed upon- and frequently that 40 per cent is that percentage of the population which needs it least, then the purpose of aid is largely negated. The underdeveloped world faces a crisis which calls for urgent action and not lengthy deliberation by advisory councils and bureaucratic reshuffles, as we have seen to date with the working of the aid agency in this country. 
Any government which is using the taxpayers' money, as we are doing with this measure, to assist developing countries must, regrettably, always take cognisance of political realities. One would like to divorce from political realities the need for developed countries to be able to give money to developing countries. But if a particular country, for whatever reason, were in disfavour with a majority of, for example, Australians it would be a very brave government which then sprang to its assistance with massive financial or other aid. Therefore education within the donor country is necessary. It is, after all, people and not governments that aid programs seek to assist. The needs of those people need to be fully explained if aid programs are to be pursued with the active support of most Australians. Australians also want to know how their financial or other aid is being used. They want to know whether it is getting through to the people who need it and for whom it is intended. Similarly they want to be sure that their aid is not allowing to be syphoned off to other projects funds that normally would be spent on foodstuffs, medical programs, buildings and so on. Those remarks do not relate specifically to what the Asian Development Bank is doing. Its record has been applauded by both sides of this Parliament, and ought to be. 
A country in our region which has a member of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank is India. It is in the context of what I have been talking about concerning community reactions that I want to mention India which, as a member nation, has a representative on the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank. It is in that context that the recent nuclear explosion by India could do much harm. India is now answerable for the further proliferation of nuclear weapons by countries which do not yet possess them. We all know that enormous sums  are necessary for nuclear research. So inevitably people will start asking where India found the money and whether it would not have been better off spending those hundreds of millions of dollars to alleviate other problems. 
I stress that it is not for us to tell India how to run its affairs- or to tie down our aid and assistance with unacceptable conditions. On the other hand, India must realise that from a public relations point of view, if for no other reason, the recent nuclear tests make it that much harder for those of us who believe in and encourage strong aid programs to get our point of view across. It also gives extra comfort to those people- we must recognise that they exist in great numbers in every developed country- who say that aid begins at home and should end there. What is true at a government level also holds true with voluntary agencies. Thousands of Australians are actively engaged in raising money and goods for various private assistance programs. Those people depend upon the goodwill of every Australian. To a large extent that goodwill is fostered by the image that Australians have of a particular country and its needs. That image in turn is most often shaped by the media. If the media starts to question the actions of a particular country those questions soon raise doubts among the general public. It is not that the members of the general public become less generous; they simply become more selective in their generosity. I regret having to cite a country as critically as I have. I have cited India only because it is the most dramatic and recent example of a situation that affects us and could occasion some rethinking. 
There is no doubt in my mind that Australia is poised to play a dominant part in aid and assistance programs during the next few years. This will not be so much in the amount of assistance we give but rather in the manner in which we offer it. We must be innovative rather than reactionary. We must be flexible enough to change direction if events dictate change, yet pragmatic enough to realise that our assistance will not always be greeted with wide acclamation or even be seen to receive the recognition that it should. Our satisfaction must be in what such assistance contributes to the overall development and stability of a particular country or region. In other words- the Government could well take note of this- our play should not be to the grandstand but should be an investment in the future of the human race. 
It is in that spirit and in that context that we support this Bill, which seeks to provide funds to the Asian Development Fund itself. We trust that the good work of the Asian Development Bank and, through it, the Development Fund will continue. I have made these specific criticisms because I am concerned about the growing criticism in the community of that country which exploded a nuclear weapon without having due regard either to the consequences of further proliferation in other countries or to the pressures on the developed countries, such as our own, which wish to give further funds by way of aid programs but which receive criticism for doing so. 
-Having heard the speech by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  I can only say that I regret having to follow immediately after him in this debate. I entirely concur with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Wentworth, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  However, I think there are two rather more pragmatic matters that the House would do well to consider. The first one I wish to mention is the matter of elections and the second is the selection of candidates. Let me deal with the first point. Depending on the findings that the committee of inquiry hands down and how this House accepts those findings, there could arise a ludicrous situation which would be against the democratic process. I use for the purpose of example the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  I know he is a doctor. I know that he is a learned man who won his way through educational institutions on scholarships. I know that he is a sincere member of Parliament. I do not know whether he has had time in his rather brilliant career to cam funds that he can salt away. This is the honourable member's prerogative and not mine to inquire into. Say, for the sake of an example, that he had been so brilliant in his particular sphere and had worked so hard that he had salted away a property in the Dandenongs. When he stands for election as a member of Parliament, as part of the democratic process, this man can be blackguarded and pilloried by mean minded candidates who happen to be standing against him. This is not a process that would help democracy. This would be totally unfair to many members of this Parliament who have had the capacity to achieve something in the community. I remind the House that there are severe disadvantages that I hope any committee of inquiry will be quick to pick up. These disadvantages would react against the democratic process and against the capacity of the democratic machine of all major political parties to nominate candidates for election to Parliament. I do not believe that the Australian nation would be served by too blatant a description of assets. Such a description would work to the disadvantage of the current system. 
Let us look at the candidates themselves. I do not think that it is any secret that all the major political parties in this House try frantically from one year to the next to find the best candidates they can to contest seats for them. I do not think that any political party in this House is always satisfied with the quality of the candidates that it can find to contest seats for it. There is a crying need in this nation for better candidates, no matter which party one is thinking of. Does the House seriously think that the process of finding good quality candidates will be improved by the thought that any man who deigns to stand for preselection for a political party will be subject to undue inquiry into his privacy? Does it think that that would serve the path of democracy properly for the future of this nation? I think that those are just 2 matters that we would do well to consider in an entirely pragmatic and commonsense fashion. 
We on this side of the House do not object to a properly constituted committee of inquiry examining this matter. I think that it needs some research. But I would consider it my duty to my electorate to point to the 2 aspects- I think they have been properly taken- of whether the community and the nation at large would be properly served by denying to members of parliament the privacy that the community today wishes to retain in so many areas. Those 2 points are of much concern to me. I agree entirely with the 3 very good speeches on this matter that I have heard from this side of the House. I support the amendment. I have every confidence that a committee of inquiry would come to proper conclusions in relation to this matter. 
-Last night I made some remarks about the appointment by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who is at the table, of a  Mr Mundey  to the Advisory Committee of the Cities Commission. I pointed out at the time that Parliament had agreed to the appointment to this Committee of 2 people trained and qualified as environmentalists and conservationists. To allow for those 2 appointments Parliament agreed to an amendment moved by myself on behalf of the member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  to increase the number on the Advisory Committee of the Cities Commision by two. I read out last night the names of the 3 persons who had been appointed by the Minister. I have no intention of repeating them. The first one and the second one have no claim to any expertise in the fields of environment or conservation. The third one the Minister appointed was a man called  Mr Mundey. 
I hasten to point out that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who spoke later, was entirely accurate when he said that I could not have checked my facts and that  Mr Mundey  was no longer a member of either the Advisory Committee or the Cities Commision. I checked today and I found out that the honourable member for Hunter was quite correct in his impression that 2 months ago  Mr Mundey  resigned from the Advisory Committee after attending 2 meetings. I can only think that he retired because he realised that the appointment in the first place was entirely wrong. He was not at any stage to be considered an expert in the fields of either environment or conservation. But I do not think that is the point. The honourable member for Hunter, I am sure, would hasten to agree with me. The point I made throughout my speech last night was that it was a wrong appointment. I am glad the honourable member for Hunter is nodding agreement, because it was a wrong appointment. Parliament accepted the amendment I moved that the number of members of the Advisory Committee should be increased from eleven to thirteen to provide membership for 2 people properly trained and competent in the field of environment and conservation. 
As I said last night I am sorry that I did not advise the Minister that I was about to bring this matter up. I am very glad that the Minister is at the table tonight. There is a great deal for which he has to answer to Parliament in relation to these appointments. I do not think anyone would accept that one should properly think that this man,  Mr Mundey,  is anything other than an enthusiastic amateur. He has been misguided in some of his aims and certainly he did not conform with the definition put down by Parliament when it accepted the amendment I moved. As I said last night, and I repeat, I think Parliament, not the Opposition, deserves a proper answer  from  the Minister as to why he appointed this man. If this man did not conform with the definition that Parliament imposed in the appointment of 2 extra people, Parliament is left with little other way of thinking than that the Minister appointed him on a personal buddy-buddy relationship, which is exactly what I said last night. 
I will be interested to hear what the Minister has to say in relation to this matter. I take the first available opportunity, as I said I would do last night, to apologise for the fact that my information, although it was checked out, was not entirely up to date. My checking out was done at the tail end of the last session of Parliament. What I said last night was in accordance with the facts that I obtained at the end of the last session. My incapacity to re-check was responsible for the error. I am not concerned tonight to point out what political party  Mr Mundey  belongs to or does not belong to. I do not know what faction of bis political parry he aims to represent. That is not the point that I am getting onto tonight. I think it is very important that the people of Australia should know about the sort of people that Ministers appoint and why they are appointed. The Minister cannot have appointed  Mr Mundey  because he thought he was a properly qualified man in the two fields specified in my amendment and accepted by Parliament. That cannot have been the reason. We want to know the reason. We want to know why there is such a close association between the left wing of the Labor Party and people like  Mr Mundey.  I do not really care whether he is a fascist, a communist, a Marxist, a Leninist or anything else. But I think the people of Australia are entitled to know why the Minister appointed him to the Cities Commission. I would like to know also by what method of ministerial machinations or mental processes the Minister arrived at the incredible solution that when Parliament empowered him to appoint two additional members to the Advisory Council of the Cities Commission, who were to be two trained and competent people in the fields of the environment and conservation, it empowered him to appoint this man to that job. By what torturous process did he reach that decision? On any definition,  Mr Mundey  is  not qualified to hold that job, in accordance with what Parliament provided. 
My interest in this matter, which I think is well known in this House, goes back to the problem of the inauguration of the regional growth centre of Albury-Wodonga. I can remember, unfortunately I suppose, delaying the Minister for some time 10 months ago on this matter. I delayed the Minister because I have a very real and grave concern for the people of South Australia, for the towns of Renmark, Loxton, Berri, Barmera, Murray Bridge and Mannum, all on the Murray and all in my electorate and also because of the fact that the Government of South Australia has not written into any indenture agreement whatsoever minimum pollution levels that should apply for the protection of South Australia which uses, I believe, 70 per cent now of waters from the Murray to sustain its growth, its industries and its current population. That water is important to South Australia. 
Perhaps this aspect is removed from the main point in my speech, but I think that the South Australian Government is negligent for not having written into any indenture agreement properly quantified pollution levels above which the people of South Australia would have some comeback against the Federal Government and the River Murray Commission to protect the future livelihood of their State. This has always been the point that I have taken in the House. My interest in the appointment of 2 properly qualified persons expert in the fields of environment and conservation stems entirely from a belief. 
I find myself in the position that I know of the Minister's last 3 appointments. After 2 meetings,  Mr Mundey  for one has resigned. I do not know whom the Minister may have in mind to appoint to this important position which could have a lot to do with the environmental factors of the River Murray and which could protect South Australia in the areas that I have already mentioned. I beseech the Minister to tell us tonight when he will conform with the provisions of the amendment moved by me, agreed to by the Parliament and by him as the responsible Minister, to appoint 2 properly qualified people to that advisory board. I think the Minister is fair enough to acknowledge that Parliament is entitled to a proper answer on this matter. I hope that I have explained to him in my speech the sort of thought process which has motivated me tonight in regard to this matter. 
I always admire persons like the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who try to justify a Government decision when it is tough and unpopular. I will, therefore, be far more moderate in my comments about their speeches than I would otherwise have been. It would be wrong, however, if I were to let some of their remarks go without some form of reply. The honourable member for Bowman made a most illuminating remark. Whilst the Opposition was blamed for delaying postal increases for 4 weeks, he explained that the Postmaster-General himself delayed such increases for a period of 12 months. I invite the House to compare the amount of the proposed increases attributed to the Opposition for the delaying their imposition with the total amount involved. It is almost as much as that fbi which the Postmaster-General can be held responsible for delaying the increases. So let us have no more nonsense about what the Opposition did or did not do. We are happy that we gave business people and other people a chance to get their houses in order and a lot of their work done in the certain knowledge that increases in various telecommunication and postal facility charges would be introduced in this Budget. Today the honourable member for Bowman complained bitterly about everything the Opposition did and then admitted that the Government also was to blame. The Government has a job to do and we do not oppose it on this occasion. 
It is only right that I should do as the honourable member for Bowman did on behalf of his electorate, on behalf of Brisbane and perhaps on behalf of Queensland and make one or two comments in relation to my own area. He said that at long last he feels that his electorate is getting a fair go with respect to telephone connections. Let me instance a case with which I have been concerned and ask him whether his definition of a fair go applies. I have made representations on behalf of a young doctor who has been appointed to a modern hospital in Adelaide. Telephone cables passed through the end of his block which is 4 miles from the centre of the fairly major town of Murray Bridge. He applied for a telephone connection expecting to be charged between perhaps $200 and $400 for it. He was asked to pay $8,000 for the connection. I stress that his block was within 4 miles of Murray Bridge, telephone cables went through the end of it and within a few yards of his house. The honourable member for Bowman spoke of a fair deal for his people. He can hardly blame a Liberal member, not a Country Party member, for asking what is fair. There are people in my electorate which is comparatively close to Adelaide who are being asked for sums in excess of $ 10,000 for telephone connections. 
-I know that the honourable member for Hunter is a fair man so I ask him: What is fair? Is it not reasonable that a person who can catch public transport to work in the morning but who may choose to use his own vehicle should perhaps pay a share of the total cost of telephone facility installations? That is the sort of principle that was adopted in the past. The honourable member for Bowman said that at long last he thought that people in his electorate seeking telephone connections were getting a fango. Perhaps I may comment on this aspect. South Australia has been wonderfully well served by 2 marvellous Directors of Posts and Telegraphs. The performance in South Australia has been second to none but now, for the first time in my experience of the last 10 years, the fringe areas of Adelaide are suffering. Switchboards do not have sufficient capacity and work has not kept up to programs. I think it reasonable to ask why. I am no expert on these matters and I was not helped on this occasion by discovering from the Parliamentary Library that I could not get the Year Book for 1973-74. The last one I could get was presented in June 1 973. 
I do not know the reason but it makes life difficult for someone like me who wants to debate these measures. From the figures available it is my understanding that the subvention from revenue for the Post Office in 1973-74 was of the order of $385m. The subvention for 1974-75 is again $385m. To these figures must be added the internally generated funds of the Post Office as a whole. Then we must ask what performance we can expect from such allocations. I know that the present Government believes that users should pay for facilities. I find it hard to argue against that view. However, according to the Treasury figures in the Budget, which is only 48 hours old, there will be an increase of 42.5 per cent in taxation receipts this year. Notwithstanding this fact, the Government has allowed no more to the PostmasterGeneral's Department this year. It seems to me that this is inequitable. At first glance it appears that the Department has not been given a fair go. 
The whole Budget is based on the assumption that inflation will increase by slightly more than 20 per cent during the next 12 months. How can $385m plus internally generated funds produce the performance required? It is common knowledge from open discussion in my electorate in the fringe areas of Adelaide that one cannot get performance if one does not have the funds. I can understand the difficulties of the Department. This year there have been enormous increases in wage costs, and I do not object to them, but to have a situation where funds allocated for this Department are the same as for last year seems to me to be letting down the entire system. Obviously the performance cannot be as great as it was last year. People in country areas know very well what the Government is proposing and doing. Let us face it; the previous Government was culpable too. It was too good an idea for the amount of revenue that the Post Office could attract into that area. This was well understood in country areas. But unless the extra amount which the Government has tacked on during the last 4 weeks, and for which it has blamed us, is going to earn a lot more than any projection that one can find in the Vernon report, we will not have the capital requirements to do the job effectively. That is really the only point I properly wanted to make. I hope that I am not wide in the facts that I have been able to glean but, as I say, I have not been able to get hold of what I imagine is the latest annual report from the Department. This has made it rather difficult for me to draw a proper comparison. 
The only other matter I wanted to discuss at all today arises from the remarks of the honourable member for Corio and the honourable member for Bowman. It has to do with what functions the Postmaster-General's Department should undertake and what functions it should not. We have already discussed- I hope we have done it properly- whether or not the Government has the funds to do the job and, if so, where they are to come from. 
The next point I wish to make is that if the Department were not so ambitious to protect its role in life I think more funds would be available. Let me make one or two suggestions to the Department. It is not the first time I have commented, for instance, on householder deliveries on behalf of various country newspapers in my area. I have been doing this on and off for some years. All country newspapers look on the competition they get from the Postmaster-General's Department as spoiling their competitive position entirely. From time immemorial stores have advertised in the local newspaper. Chain stores rather altered the situation, but chain stores used to advertise in the local newspaper. With the advent of chain stores came the householder delivery. Some people tended to use that system, which deprived provincial newspapers of a lot of their revenue. I just make the point in passing: Does the Department really need to be in this role or could it save staffing if it were not involved in it? I do not know that I am interested in or that I wish to protect red telephones. They always seemed rather extraneous to me. But I presume that the need for red telephones has arisen because the community does not think that the facilities are being supplied by the Post Office. By and large I think members of the public are prepared to pay if they get an efficient service. I will touch on that matter again in a minute. 
We now have the intrusion of the PostmasterGeneral's Department into the field of courier services. Why did they arise? They probably arose before the system of 'Priority Paid' mail was introduced. Might I compliment the Department on the efficiency of the delivery times of 'Priority Paid' mail. I use that service quite consistently. It cost me a great deal but it is a very efficient service and it takes a matter of hours for mail posted in South Australia to arrive here. I repeat that I do not think people mind paying when a matter of some urgency crops up if the service is efficient. I do not object to that, but why do we now need sums of money available, which are specified in these documents, to set up a courier service to be administered by the Post Office? My argument here, which touches on householder deliveries to a lesser extent, courier services and other similar services, is that surely taxpayers ' funds or loan funds can be saved if some of this side- the fringe side, if you like- of the service of the Post Office were retained in the private sector. If the private sector can do it and if people use it and if it costs the Department money to organise this, I do not think the taxpayer should be strained by providing facilities to set it up. That probably points up the deep philosophical difference between people on our side of the Parliament and people on the other side. 
If I might get a little tougher perhaps I would finish by saying that the honourable member for Bowman could not quite see the point made by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  when he touched on the matter of decentralisation. I appreciate by the look on your face,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I have to keep within fairly close bounds when dealing with the honourable member's remarks. Let us face it; just in my little neck of the woods- in my comparatively unimportant electorate, I supposethis Government has already taxed the brandy industry out of existence, or very nearly so. It has put up the price of petrol in country areas by taking away the country subsidy, resulting in an increase of up to 27c a gallon in the Northern Territory. The removal of taxation concessions has taken away the liquidity of many farmers on whose back many big country towns are founded today. So that affects the entire economy in towns like Murray Bridge, Renmark, Oodnawoopwoop, or wherever else one may go. 
The Government has presided over the almost complete ruination of the Australian economy. This does not affect so much those people who are protected in the electorate of my friend from Bowman but it does affect the people who are in private business, whether that business be in the main street or whether it be a rural one, in my sort of electorate. I will leave aside mentioning obvious things such as superphosphate, because the price has already increased from $ 1 5.50 a ton 4 months ago to $45.50 a ton now. I will leave that aside but will get to the fact that in my State, anyway, elected Labor Party senators and others in the State field are refusing to attend growers' meetings when they wish to register their protests. Do not let us ever wonder why there is unhappiness with this Government in those areas. It is very real, and people like me are trying to advise the growers not to strike and withhold goods from the city. Anyway, it would be counterproductive. I think we are winning that fight. But they must be allowed the right to protest, and they will protest tremendously when every country investment in a country town is hit by increased telephone charges or, if you like, petrol charges, because people in those areas use those facilities almost entirely for their job- to earn their income. 
They do not have the privilege of television in some cases. The do not have the provision of public transport. They do not have the provision of cheapness of commuting from one area to another, and in these areas the majority of their costs of production is involved in this sort of thing. 
I think probably one of the silliest remarks I heard- I will not say who made it; it was made a little while ago- came from an honourable member on the other side of the House who pointed to the importance of the telephone to a metropolitan household. I do not deny that but, let us face it, if anyone asked me whether it was more important that  Mrs Joe  Blow should be able to discuss why she and her neighbour lost 5c at bridge the previous evening or the sorts of costs that an industry has to meet in country areas to carry out its job under these new provisions that we are debating today, I would have to say that there is no comparison. The honourable member for Bowman said that he was glad to see fairness of supply. All we seek is that the Goverment in the future look at the fairness of all people in Australia, that it ensures that there is fair treatment for all of them instead of what seems to us to be a building up against one section of the community at present. 
I hope that I have tried to be pleasant and objective. I hope that the figures I have are not too far off the mark. If they are, I apologise, but it is due to the fact that the annual report of the Department has not been available from the Parliamentary Library today for me to study the facts and figures as I would like to. 
I do not intend to comment very much because I do not know the facts in relation to the Press release evidently issued by my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  amongst the Greek communities in Adelaide. I think it is awfully difficult to resist in these circumstances the temptation to take sides as between groups of people in one's electorate. I do not intend to fall for that one today. But I must say in passing that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  read out the first two sentences from the Press release and referred to them as being of a scurrilous nature. I do not have the full facts that he may have at his fingertips but, frankly, I could not see anything scurrilous about it at all. I expected some one-eyed abusive attack on the Government for one thing or another but that did not eventuate. The only attitude I can take is that I hope the Government will do more to assist in this situation and in any such situation that occurs. Nothing is more tragic than people of one country or one island being in the circumstances of a civil war. I think that all honourable members of this House will agree with me. Anything that the Government can do to assist the big effort of the Greek community- I am not knowledgeable about the Turkish community in Australia- will obviously be welcomed by all members of Parliament on both sides. 
I think it is probably salutory for the House every now and again to hear from the member for Angas on the matter of brandy and the brandy industry. I do not know whether the House has yet absorbed the dreadful fact that growers, who are on very minimal wages or returns from their investment and for their enterprise because of the price control measures in South Australia which fix the minimum price of brandy grapes receive $70 a ton for their produce. Today the Government is taking in excess of $ 1 , 100 a ton of grapes used for brandy. There is something wrong in the state of Denmark when growers are hammered down to this level of return while the Government takes such an exorbitant cut of the cake that directly affects their interests. 
In its misguided fashion the Government has said that there should not be any differential between the production of Australian vodka, gin, brandy and whisky. It has totally misassessed the position. If the demand for Australian rum were to fall it would not affect the grower of Australian sugar of which it is a by-product. If the demand for beer were to fall, to suggest that it would rarely affect the barley growers or the cereal growers of Australia would be a very wild assertion indeed. The same sort of circumstances can apply to other Australian spirits produced as a by-product of one industry or another. But this condition does not apply to the person who grows grapes for brandy production.  His  economic plight is a very serious one in some parts of my electorate today. 
Let me read briefly one or two comments from the industry leaders that have recently been sent to me. The first is from  Mr Angove.  Honourable members will be aware of St Agnes brandy. I am not giving him free advertising when I say that it is probably the finest brandy in Australia, particularly as no brandy is produced in the Hunter 
Valley electorates of my friends.  Mr Angove  said that the 94 per cent increase in brandy duty imposed in August last year had reduced brandy sales by 20 per cent He said: 
This latest excise increase - that is the current one- amounting to 4214 per cent, plus sales tax at 15 per cent, making 49 per cent overall, was a total increase of 178 per cent in less than a full year. 
A 178 per cent increase in Government rake-off. He said: 
Such savage treatment levelled at brandy can only be construed as intended to severely cripple the industry, grape growers, producers and distributors. 
Brandy stocks at the Berri Winery and Distillerythe biggest single winery in Australiawere severely reduced by the bond store fire in February, but the company was nevertheless alarmed, according to  Mr Lever,  the general manager. He said that duty prior to the August Budget last year was $8 a proof gallon. This was increased to $15.58 by the August Budget and was now up to $22.20 as a result of the miniBudget. 
I have not added it up but, to recapitulate what I said a while ago, there was a 178 per cent increase in less than 12 months. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  opened the South Australian Barossa Co-operative's new building a little while ago he advised growers to get out of grapes that could be used for brandy production. There was an interjection from the back of the audience which caused some amusement. Someone said that the only way you can make money out of brandy today is to burn it. It was a direct reference to the fire at the Berri Winery some time ago. 
The situation is as serious as this. It is significant that the Government seems intent on maliciously destroying only one section of the wine industry. Amazingly enough- this has happened in more than one case and I have written evidence of it- a Minister writes and says: ' I hear you are in trouble. What can we do to help?' Having knocked the man down and half killed him the Minister says: 'What is the trouble, old fellow? Is there anything we can do to try to lift you up again?' In most instances this is far too late I think it is probably becoming too late now for the brandy industry. One can only sit and watch in horror at what happens to an industry such as that of  Mr Angove.  He is typical of many. He has put his whole life into the art of produc-' ing a brandy comparable with the best brandies produced in the world. He has acquired this art over many years and now by the capricious whim of Government, uninformed of the implications of its actions - 
One would hope that it was not indifferent. It is certainly uninformed. The Government is prepared to let this art which has been learned from experience over many years fall into disuse, to the complete disadvantage of this country which surely should be aiming in every industry possible to increase the knowledge, the know-how and the capacity of that industry, to update with plant and modern equipment. In the case of this industry and of many of the industries in the electorate of Angas which I represent, all these things have been given exactly the opposite treatment. They are short of capital to update and upgrade. In the middle of all this we have a marvellous little remark from the nice but ineffectual Federal Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who says in answer to repeated requests from me, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  the Premier of South Australia and many others: The Government must have another look at it. ' We are getting too used to this sort of answer. The Government has another look but nothing ever eventuates. All I can do is join with the Premier of South Australia- I am not on his side very frequently- who said - 
He stood and allowed himself to be counted on this matter. He said that the Federal Government had placed him in a shamefully difficult position. He expressed his sense of shame at what happened. I can only back him up on that point of view and ask the Government once again to reassess this position. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
by leave- I wish to clear up a misstatement I made this morning. During the grievance debate I said that under price regulation in South Australia growers of brandy grapes received $70 a ton for the produce they sell to brandy producers. I have been informed that the figure should have been $72.40. I said that the gross rake-off by the Government was $1,100. In fact it is $1,235. 
-Order! The honourable member for Hume will address the Chair. 
I spoke also of the 115 committees and commissions of inquiry which have been set up by this Government. These bodies are costing vast amounts of public funds and are not serving any particularly useful purpose. I referred also to the growth which has taken place under this Government in the size of the Public Service. We have suggested that the growth ceiling should be much lower than that established by this Government. I mentioned also the overseas jaunts which have been occurring for some months past and which are taking place at this time. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is presently on his eighth overseas trip. People are fed up with the waste of money occurring on these sorts of things in the Government sector. 
Another area of concern is expenditure on Aboriginals. I support completely the idea that money should be expended in the area of Aboriginal policy to try to overcome some of the problems that are experienced in this respect. But it is no answer for the Government just to make untold hundreds of millions of dollars available, as it is doing, and then wiping its hands of the problem and saying: 'Well, we have done our bit'. Far more concrete policies and a far more satisfactory and sensible approach to the expenditure of that money are called for. 
What has happened is that all members of the Labor Party who are in government today have been issued with the same economic primer. They cannot even get a grasp of that. They cannot understand even the basic facts. They are all digging around trying to find the few benefits that this Budget will provide. Nobody can argue that any Budget does not have some good features. But they are failing to see the total impact of the Budget and its overall effect. Nobody seems to understand those aspects. They all have the same tutor in economics just as they seem to have the same drama tutor, because they all sound identical. They are not prepared to be original because they are all being totally dominated by this structure that is being laid on from the top. 
Yesterday I asked how Labor members can hold their heads up when they go into the pubs in their electorates and hear what their fellow men and supporters are saying to them when they go into their electorates. How can they possibly hold their heads up in such surroundings? It is a Budget of absolute hypocrisy. Yet, members of the Labor Party go home and say that they have increased welfare benefits and that the people should be happy about that The people will realise, as the months roll on, just what a disaster this Budget has been. What about this hypocrisy of restraint? Restraint is being called for by everybody in the Government. The Ministers and the backbenchers are all running around saying that we have to have restraint. Among those calls for restraint come the proposals to boost government expenditure by more than 30 per cent. That follows an increase of 20 per cent last year. So, we have had an increase comfortably in excess of 50 per cent in government expenditure. 
We are watching and witnessing a massive shift from the private sector to the public sector. This is a socialistic approach. There are plenty of areas, such as housing and the pipeline which I mentioned, where money could have been better applied within the private sector. I quote the Treasurer 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect in the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
What is the basis for that statement? Having brought the economy to its knees, having completely destroyed it and having pulled the rug out from underneath it, is the Government in a position to say that because of subdued conditions that exist in the private sector it will drag all the resources into the public sector? 
I suggest that the Government could easily have spent the money, if it wanted to, in providing some stimulus, some incentive and some meaningful tax cuts to the economy- to business, to the private sector and to individuals- rather than these phoney tax cuts that will be meaningless by Christmas. The Government could easily have got some activity going in the private sector so that it could have taken up its own slack. The Government has created conditions for making further inroad into the private sector and transferring much more into the public sector. This Budget will add significantly to wage claims and industrial unrest as people inevitably fight to maintain the real value of their wages in their pockets. This Government, with its meaningless tax cuts and its massive shift into the public sector, will create many more problems, much more unemployment, much more pressure on wages and much more inflation. 
What could the Government have done in this Budget about interest rates? Interest rates in this country are at an all-time high. It is a disaster, particularly for those who are trying to buy a home. The Labor Party says that a person has to own his own home. It says that that is the Australian dream and it will see that people get their own home. Eight or nine months ago the repayments on an average $20,000 mortgage through a building society were $150 a month. Today on the same mortgage as a result of interest increases the payments are $230 a month. That is hitting the pocket of the average fellow, the little fellow, the chap who is supposed to be being taken care of by the Labor Party. 
I wanted to make reference to the capital gains tax and the serious effect it will have on family farms, small businesses and the general economy in the private sector. I wanted to make reference also to the Prime Minister's statements in overseas arenas about what this Government could do for providing the hungry world with food. I wanted to refer also to what it could have done in this Budget to provide some incentive in the area of agricultural production so that we could have looked forward to some stimulation, some increased production and some better productivity in this area. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I wonder whether the Prime Minister can help me because I wish to address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Would he be the Minister for Services and Property, the Treasurer or has he appointed someone else? Perhaps I should address it to the Prime Minister. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  should have a look - 
That the business of the day be called on. 
At the number of Australian companies which are searching for oil overseas - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That notice No. I and orders of the day 1 and 2 be postponed until a later hour this day. 
I think the House today has been treated for about the fourth time to a reply by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  on minerals and petroleum matters. We have heard the same speech from the same dear old fellow with the same humour, as corny - 
I accept the speech by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  as being a sincere description of his own problems. I suppose that it is now open knowledge that his Party is a hopelessly divided and unhappy one under its current leadership. He has to accept that that is so. The honourable members talked a little while ago about who crosses the floor and who does not. I remind the Committee that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  for one, crossed the floor the other day. I have not yet noticed the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  who is now shaking his head, or any of his Tasmanian colleagues cross the floor on matters pertaining to superphosphate. I look forward to seeing that happen. If any Party can be held responsible for the fact that the Senate is no longer a States house but has become a purely Party house it is, of course, the members of the Labor Party. It was not until they banded together that the significance of the Senate as a States House was negated. Other parties out of sheer self protection from time to time have had to adopt the same policy. Let us have no more nonsense in relation to that problem. 
I refer now to the estimates for the Parliament which is the matter now before the House. I think it is fair to say that this House continues to act in a somewhat more colourful fashion than its equivalent House in, say, the United Kingdom, Canada or New Zealand. I noticed the other day an article printed under the name of  Mr Bridgman  of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff in a manual for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association which I think is called 'Parliament', in which he draws attention to a list of phrases allowed by precedent in this House in contradiction to others. The one that attracted my attention most, regrettably, was one that states: 'He would not know if he sat on a corkscrew'. That may be amusing to some initially but a plethora of similar phrases probably would detract from the priorities and needs of proper debate in this House, and indeed would detract from the peculiar and necessary role of this House as a check and balance on Executive action. 
The problem of the public image of Parliament in the eyes of the community is a factor that this House must not forget, as it must not forget the Parliament's authority in the eyes of those who listen to and view its proceedings. From my point of view, I do not seek major reform nor any less colour in phraseology which I think is needed in a lower House, but I think that a lot more thought should be given by all members of Parliament, including Party leaders, to their behaviour in this chamber as it will be judged by an increasingly intelligent and perceptive outside viewing and listening body. In this, the people's House, we must more than ever mirror the best attitudes of the community and not the worst. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  in a thoughtful speech yesterday, doubted the wisdom of televising parliamentary procedures except perhaps on special occasions. Because of the physical problems of heat from necessarily powerful lighting and because of the artificiality or stage-managed nature of televised proceedings in the past, he felt we should not take the step of televising proceedings on a regular basis. He may well be right, particularly when the more colourful 'colour' of the House is prone to be exaggerated. Nevertheless, I believe we will, and I believe we should, take this step in due course. 
The advent of the political commentator has totally castrated the reporting of individual members' speeches and questions. These commentators, hard working, if sometimes a trifle inexperienced, perceptive if not heavily endowed with proper training for their job, do not worry any more about reporting political facts. They interpret the facts in the daily or weekly commentary which cuts across the capacity of the backbencher in this House to identify with his electorate. Backbenchers rarely today warrant a mention. This illustrates the difficulty of the average member of Parliament whose city electorate, for instance, must wonder whether he ever says or does anything to represent its views and aspirations. It is primarily for this reason that I believe the interests of Parliament, as an essential part of the democratic process, will be best served by opening up the process to the scrutiny of the community by such action as televising parliamentary sessions with careful consideration being given to those sessions selected for viewing. 
Cheap political capital can, I think, always be made by ridiculing the Chair. I did not always hold that view. I suppose to one degree or another these attempts to ridicule have always been made by an Opposition that feels frustrated. However, I believe it behoves all members to meditate on the erosion they may cause to the institution by taking frivolous or undue political action with the Chair. This leads me to the matter of quorums. On any international comparison the quota needed for a quorum in this House of one-third or 43 members is too high. This in turn becomes a tactical weapon in the hands of an Opposition subject to insufficient debating time and to gags and guillotines on important Bills which the Opposition regards as unreasonable. It is worth consideration by this House that other parliaments have taken away the power of individual members to call quorums. Certainly, and not only in this Parliament, quorums are called frivolously and constitute a serious erosion on the capacity of various parliamentary and party committees to operate efficiently. On the other hand, before the sitting of the House was suspended for lunch the bare minimum of one Minister, who was ponderously introducing his Bill, one Opposition front bencher, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  and the  Speaker  constituted the entire number present. It is obvious that the responsibility of the Opposition in these circumstances should be to call a quorum, and it is equally as obvious that the responsibility of a government is at all times to at least hold a reasonable number if not a quorum on such occasions. 
In any viewing of the operation of other parliaments the first main difference that is made quite apparent to any intelligent observer is the programming of the procedures of the House. It is well known to honourable members that a three-line whip in the United Kingdom states that a division on the Budget will take place at 9.30 p.m. the week after next and the members turn up for such a major division in their complete numbers. Certainly there are sociological and distribution differences between the United Kingdom Parliament and the Australian Parliament. I get the feeling that the average member of Parliament in the House of Commons tends to be more of a part-time person and not such a captive audience as people who travel vast distances in Australia and live in Canberra at least for the time of the sittings. I think that the larger the membership of this Parliament becomes and the more immense the work it undertakes, the more necessary it will be to attempt to program the proceedings accurately. The business of Bills listed but not eventuating, of new Bills coming from the clouds and appearing for debate creates practical problems to the efficient and effective functioning of the Parliament. 
In the minute remaining to me I should like to get personal. Honourable members will appreciate the fact that I am the newest comer to join the illustrious people such as yourself,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  who deputise for the  Chairman  of Committee. I want to make a few terse comments. When one sits in the Chairman's chair one notices that people like the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  always pay respect and observance to the Chair as they come and go in this chamber. Many members of this chamber strut arrogantly past, do not stop to check when crossing in front of the table, and take no regard of the Chair whatsoever. In general they make one feel that one is quite redundant when one sits up high in that important position. 
I am glad to hear the honourable member for Prospect dare to comment on that aspect. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister. upon notice: 
What funds will be allocated to the Film and Television Board in 1974-75. 
What funds were allocated in previous years. 
What has been the distribution of the funds in each State in each financial year. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Film and Television Board, what has been the breakdown between funds used for (a) experimentation and (b) general production in each financial year. 
How have these funds been distributed, and what has been the allocation to each State. 
What firms and individuals have been recipients of these funds. 
On what basis are priority assessments made, and what percentage of applicants have received grants. 
What qualities have the assessors for their job. 
How many ex-writers or journalists sit in judgment on the film industry applications. 
Are their judgments purely opinionative. 
Can any judgment be made as to the effect of the expenditure of these funds on the promotion of art. 
Can any judgment be made on a State to State basis. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he make available a comprehensive breakdown of administrative costs and other expenses incurred by the Film and Television Board in each financial year. 
In what profitable ventures has the Board been involved. 
In these instances, what investment has the Board made, and what proportion is this investment to total investment from other sources. 
Will he name these other sources. 
-My purpose in taking part in this debate this afternoon is to comment on the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise involving a projected expenditure amounting to $52m and specifically to refer to an industry which is very important in my electorate- the wine and brandy producing industry. Upon being elected in December 1972 the Labor Government honoured a promise to withdraw the excise on wine. Honourable members will recollect that the original excise was SOc a gallon but after a good deal of heavy work by back bench members of the Government of the day- I think I can say that I was a prominent member of that team- we succeeded in having that amount halved. The present Government withdrew the remaining excise. There were promises on several occasions not to replace that excise with another tax or any other imposition. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave this undertaking to the Premier of South Australia and it is also on public record at a growers meeting held in Berri in the form of statements by  Mr Grassby,  a former member of this place. 
Since that time the Government has gone back on its word both to the Premier of South 
Australia and the industry. It has introduced an Act to repeal section 31a of the Taxation Act which concerns provisions for valuation of stock for income tax purposes. Contrary to nearly every business in the land, the industry was to be taxed on stock on hand and not at the point of sale, which is surely normal business practice. After many deputations, some of which were introduced by me to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  this is now to be phased in over a period of 5 years and not 3 years as originally envisaged. The Treasurer was good enough to give me in this place some time ago some credit for bringing this about. So in addition to normal taxation commitments the industry was put in a position of having to repay gigantic sums to the Treasury and some medium sized family companies, for instance, are in the position of having to find up to $ lm to meet this provision in addition to normal taxation and the huge increase in costs which have been brought about primarily by poor economic management by this Government. 
The Government removed the excise advantage held by the brandy industry over other Australian produced spirits in spite of evidence which showed quite clearly that the sole output of small wine grape growers was the wine and brandy industry, which is in complete contradistinction, to, say, the growers of sugar to whom rum is a rather unimportant byproduct. In passing, one might also say that the production of gin, vodka and indeed beer is frankly not an awfully important matter for the wheat belt farmer of Australia. I maintain this was an error of judgment on the part of the Government and I believe, from memory, on the basis of a Tariff Board report that was brought in prior to that judgment. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard 2 tables. The first shows the clearance of Aus.tralian brandy for each month since August 1973 compared with clearances in the same months during the previous year. The second shows clearances of imported and Australian brandy for the past 5 years. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 
Clearance of Australian Brandy for each month since August 1973 compared to clearances for the same month in the previous year. 

<graphic href="091131197410223_50_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410223_50_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the chamber for that courtesy. It will be noted that the figures which I have had incorporated in Hansard apply up to but not including the mini-Budget excise increases. Nor do they indicate the results of those increases. The first table I have had incorporated shows quite clearly the percentage fall for the month of September 1972 compared with 1973 right through to May 1973 compared with May 1974. 1 think those figures speak for themselves. The second table deals with the percentage of imported brandy compared with total Australian sales. It shows that in February 1969 the percentage of imported brandy compared with Australian produced brandy was 1 1.72 per cent. That table shows that by February 1974 the percentage of imported brandy compared with Australian produced brandy had risen to 21.11 per cent. It is not my intention to labour that particular tariff report unduly or the consequential action that the Government took hi relation to this matter. 
The Government has magnified this problem that I have just mentioned to honourable members. Since coming into office the Government has twice increased the duty on all spirits and this, of course, is in addition to removing the advantage previously enjoyed by the Australian brandy industry over other Australian spirit industries. I will quote  Mr T.  W. C. Angove of 
Angove's Pty Ltd, Renmark, whose wine members of this place enjoy from time to time in another spot. He said: ... the degree of apparent malice in this imposition is only exceeded by the muddle of Government ineptitude. 
He went on to say that the 94 per cent increase in brandy duty imposed in August last year had reduced brandy sales by 20 per cent. This figure is borne out by the tables that I have incorporated in Hansard. He said that this latest excise increase amounting to 42 per cent, plus sales tax of 15 per cent, gives a total increase of 178 per cent on the brandy industry in 13 months. He said that such savage treatment levelled at the brandy industry can only be construed as intended to cripple the industry severely, that is, the grape growers, the producers and distributors. I agree with his statement and furthermore I point out that the Government is now taking, on the basis of grapes used in the brandy industry, an amount of approximately $1,200 a tondepending on what area one is looking atalthough the grower gets $70 a ton as a result of a decision by the Prices Commissioner in South Australia. I think that to all fair-minded members this must amount to a scandalous situation. The Government has also been made well aware of the following problem: The difference in favour of Australian produced brandy over imported brandy is now 19c per litre alcohol whereas the difference in favour of Australian produced whisky over imported whisky is now 66c per litre alcohol. The industry, realising that this was an anomaly in the mathematics behind the Government action, requested that it should be equalised during the current Budget. Nothing was done. The Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  said on another occasion that obviously the Government must have another look at the whole incidence of taxation on the industry but nothing has happened. 
On behalf of the industry I say that all sections of it, particularly the growers, are heartily fed up with this lack of action by the Government and its general attitude of half killing an industry and then saying: 'What is wrong? Is there anything we can do to help?' This attitude is all too prevalent when dealing with many Australian industries today. The Government has produced, through budgetary and general economic action, a situation that is intolerable to many fine Aus.tralian industries. It is time the Government realised its responsibilities instead of trying to duck shove the blithe platitudes which are meaningless to anyone who understands the problems facing the industry. I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard a further table. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted, (The document read as follows)- 
The attention of the Government is respectfully drawn to the rate of Customs Duty and the Excise Duty applied to imported and Australian produced brandy: 
Imported Brandy Customs Tariff Item 22.09.120-$6.19 per litre alcohol. 
Australian produced Brandy Excise Tariff Item 2A- $6.00 per litre alcohol. 
Difference in favour of Australian produced Brandy-$0.19 per litre alcohol. 
As a comparison to this differential applying to brandy, the attention of the Government is drawn to the difference between Imported Whisky and Australian produced Whisky. 
Imported Whisky Customs Tariff Item 22.09.220-$7.46 per litre alcohol. 
Australian produced Whisky Excise Tariff Item 2E1 -$6.80 per litre alcohol, 
Difference in favour of Australian produced Whisky- $0.66 per litre alcohol. 
The rates of duty disclosed above show that Australian Whisky has a tariff advantage over imported Whisky amounting to66c per litre alcohol whereas Australian Brandy compared to Imported Brandy has an advantage of only 1 9c per litre alcohol. 
I thank honourable members. This table shows a complete breakdown of the customs and excise duty on imported and Australian produced brandy. It illustrates the point I have already made, that is, that there is a disadvantage suffered by the brandy industry compared with the whisky industry insofar as imported products are concerned. 
I now seek in the brief time left to me in this debate to remind honourable members of the traditional use of brandy as a spirit for age pensioners and those in more necessitous circumstances. If honourable members could see the mail that I get on this subject they might not laugh so much. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Do the Bureau of Agricultural Economics statistics for dried vine fruit index allow an operator an allowance for his own labour and a small reward for management 
Do these calculations amount to owner/operator grapegrowers working for approximately $45 per week plus the small manager's allowance. 
What is the attitude of the Minister to the operator's allowance being shown as at least the basic wage per week, as applicable to the work-force elsewhere, if not the average wage for Australian workers. 
Can he say whether the River Arbitration Committee in South Australia awards $78.20 to an employee capable of working without supervision, and $68.10 per week to a totally unskilled and inexperienced worker. 
If so, does this indicate an apparent anomaly in comparison with the $45 awarded under the index to the owner/operator. 
Is the Bureau of Agricultural Economics index used by various industries, including the wine grape industry for surveys on cost of production, evidence to the Industries Assistance Commission, etc. 
Will the Minister have the above suggestions incorporated in such work of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics so that those sections of the Australian workforce who put in considerably more than 40 hours a week have a chance of equal living conditions compared to other sections of the Community. 
Whereas the operator's labour is explicitly presented as mentioned above, will the Minister make available the basis on which the managerial allowance is calculated. 
Does the managerial allowance include interest on capital involved in a particular farming enterprise; if not, why not. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Is the Minister aware that letters have been received by major hotels in Australia from the Australian Performing Right Association seeking increased levies based on the rate of $15 for each record player, $15 for each tape recorder, $15 for each background music system, $10 for each radio set and $10 for each television set? Is the Minister aware that the previous total charge levied by the Association was in the region of $8.85? Does the Minister regard that type of charge as being equivalent to television and radio licensing, which is the constitutional right of this Government? Can he inform me of the rights, if any, of such an Association to charge tourist hotels in this field? Does he realise the consequence that the action of the Association, if allowed, will have on costs associated with the tourist industry? 
As we are discussing estimates for the Department of Services and Property and for the Department of Housing and Construction, I would like to refer the Minister for Housing and Construction to the comments made in the Auditor-General's report in relation to the Minister's administration of his department. First of all, I wish to know why cheques totalling $2m were paid in June 1973 and held for several weeks, in many instances into July 1973. It seems a most odd situation and I think the Minister owes an explanation to the Parliament. Secondly, with reference to section 3.9.5 of the Auditor-General's report, I want to know why overpayments to works supervisors required to be on call for extra duty outside normal office working hours occurred. I appreciate that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is not in the chamber, but on looking at the estimates for his Department, I want to know why properties valued at $5,233,000-odd owned by the Government have been unoccupied for extended periods. This matter is referred to in section 3.19.1 of the Auditor-General's report. Fourthly, I want to know why dead rent amounting to $406,000 has been paid in 3 cited instances other than cases not specified, ranging between $12,000 and $80,000 in each instance. The reference number is 3. 1 9.2. 
Having said that, I think that the Committee would do well to take notice of the honourable members on the Government side holding swinging seats who have been talking on the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction. One can imagine the determined approach with which they have grasped at every available straw in the wind. The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child),  for instance, made great play of the proposition that the Liberal-Country Party Government built office blocks instead of houses. What relevance this has to do with the chronic condition of the housing industry today, I do not know. In the last year of a Liberal-Country Party Govern- ment-1972-156,000 dwellings, not office blocks, were commenced. I go along with the comments by the honourable members on the other side of the chamber that too much demand was being exercised in this field. The number of current year commencements went from 156,000 dwellings in 1972 to 176,000 dwellings in 1973. The rate of commencement for the following year, that is 1974, will be approximately 130,000 dwellings. This is a fall that is plain for everybody to see. It is no earthly use the Government saying that the Liberal-Country Party when in government built too many office blocks when we also built a hell of a lot more houses. 
The people of Australia today are not that interested in whether the Government is pushing funds into the terminating building societies. They want to see that houses are being built. The last speaker mentioned the shortfall of buildings and the fact that there is a lag in construction. Under this Government, houses are not being built and there is a shortfall of anything up to 40,000 a year at this point of time. Now, that is the issue, not whether we built office blocks, not whether there was too much liquidity in the economy around 1973 when this Government had been in office for a year and had done nothing about it. That is not the issue. The issue is that the housing industry of this country is failing apart and this Government is not pushing into it the funds that it should be pushing into it. That is the issue as I see it. 
Another point on which I should like to dwell for a minute refers to the position of building societies as an important integral part of the housing system. The figures I have to hand show quite clearly that, compared with the present shortfall of houses and other living units, next year's under supply at best may be 50,000 dwellings or at the worst 79,000 by this time next year. Those are figures taken as well as I could glean them from current statistics that are available. But I wish to get the position of permanent building societies, because they show a projection, from figures they released last week, of only 15,000' society financed houses being built for the whole of the nation during the coming year, which is a reduction in the annual rate of 60,000 over the last 2 years- in other words, it has occurred since this Government took office. 
Again I say that it is no use plucking out excuses, it is no use trying to say that we did build something and not another thing. The situation shows that there will be a shortfall of houses available, houses that should be constructed and will not be constructed due to the current economic mismanagement by this Government. Let us look at the mismanagement side of it. I am not going to bring up the subject of rash expenditure. Some people might think of 'Blue Poles' or other things. Frankly, I like 'Blue Poles'. I do not like the fact that it is falling to pieces, and I am not competent to judge its market price; but I do want to talk about the range of rash government expenditure that has been responsible for the economic conditions we see today in the housing industry, conditions whereby there is a deposit gap of anything between $5,000 and $15,000, conditions under which the price of a $20,000 home has gone up by $5,000 during the current year- an increase of $125 a week. I point to the fact that under these economic conditions people cannot afford to purchase their own homes without using the most stringent self-denial programs in order to do so. 
No matter what this Government says, it is absolutely true and certain that up to 2 years ago almost every person in this country could afford to purchase his house. It is almost certainly true that every person in this nation could raise a loan to do so. It is equally true, I think, that out of their wages and salaries they could afford to service the repayments and to service their interest payments. This condition must be reached again. The rapid escalation of costs is due to a variety of factors. A nation which has been 70 per cent selfsufficient in oil and which ranks third among all the OECD nations in its insularity, in its capacity to insulate itself against imported inflation, should have had a better record in the fiscal and economic field. This rapid escalation in costs is the prime reason for the current problems in the building industry. 
I feel very sorry in many ways for the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  who is at the table. I notice when they picked the national cabinet the other day they only referred to him as the drink waiter. I do not even know the reason for that appointment, but perhaps if his hospitality by implication is as great as that I will come down with my shadow minister for housing, John McLeay, and we will try to explain to him a few of the facts of life, where his own Department, his own Ministry, are running so foul of the people of Australia today due principally to the fact that houses are not being built, that there is a shortfall of houses, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for people to purchase them, even if they were available. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I have shown 2 tables to the Minister who was at the table earlier. He agreed to my incorporating them in Hansard. One table lists the flights which brought people from Chile to Australia and the other table lists the destinations in Australia of those people. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410304_64_2.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Minister for his courtesy. It is not only the NEAT scheme which shows the political bias of this Government in its efforts to help doubtful members hold their seats. I wish to substantiate a case which I wish to make against the previous Minister for Immigration in this Government. I refer to the importation of Chilean, or so-called Chilean, people to Australia from the dates mentioned in the table which I have incorporated, which also contains the name of the airline carrying these people and the number of people carried. 
Between January and the end of October this year the flights brought into Australia from Santiago and Lima a total of 1,547 people. The airlines concerned were Lan Chile Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd. I gather that Sydney and then Melbourne hostels were filled with so-called Chilean migrants after the coup in Chile with the final overflow of 52 going to Adelaide and 142 going to Brisbane and smaller numbers going to Perth and Canberra. These totally assisted people numbering 1,547 arrived in this 7-months period. To take into this country over 1,500 people who are displaced due to civil disruption in their home country is one thing- and I would laud a government for doing this- but it is another thing to take into this country improperly screened so-called Chileans who were not born in Chile in many instances and who were originally born in countries ranging from Cuba, Paraguay, Romania to Czechoslovakia. 
The present Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is, of course, responsible for Government policy but I believe that the previous Minister,  Mr Grassby,  must be condemned for allowing trained political activists to come into this country with no real intention to abide by this nation's principles or aspirations. I am told that many of them, as I have said, are not Chileans in that they were not born in Chile. I am told that they are in many instances trained political activists. I am told that they have no real intention of working or wishing to settle here with their families. Furthermore, I am told that very few of them can speak either Spanish or the Chilean patois of Spanish. My evidence for this comes from a Chilean from my own electorate who happened to be at the Department of Immigration in Adelaide where he had to help to interpret for a large group of immigrants who arrived from the Adelaide airport. He could not find- and I do not say there were not some- one immigrant who spoke Spanish or the Chilean patois of Spanish. 
The Chileans who in the past paid their own way to this country are properly offended that these people should be termed Chileans and they wish to be entirely dissociated from the kind of people whom the previous Minister for Immigration brought into this country. This Government refused to give political asylum or a migrant visa to a citizen of an East European country who requested it. The Government acted against the advice of the Australian Head of Mission involved. Yet this Government is prepared to allow into this country trained agitators and political activists with another political sympathy. These migrants come from a pool that  Senator Murphy  described in a statement tabled on 21 March this year as:  .... required by the present regime to leave Chile for political reasons or due to irregular resident status . . . 
The statement also contained the following words which I think are  Senator Murphy's  words:  . . . . e.g. having entered Chile illegally. 
From the same statement  Senator Murphy  states that assisted passage is also being granted in neighbouring countries where some refugees are in temporary sanctuaries. From this source 5 cases involving 18 people have been recommended as unacceptable, including 2 confirmed hijackers. 
I ask the Committee to study section 13 on page 3 of the statement at which  Senator 
Murphy says that a new situation developed in Chile at the beginning of December when the missions of countries signatory to the convention, which by then had granted asylum to several hundred people, announced that they had exhausted their capacity and would not accept any more. Honourable members should bear in mind that this was the situation at the beginning of December. At this point the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  directed that the Australian Embassy should grant asylum to any further people seeking it. It is interesting to note that the first flight, as mentioned above, did not leave Santiago until 17 January and flights continued, according to the figures I have, until 7 October 1974. 1 believe that a smaller trickle continued to enter this country after that date. 
It is also interesting to note in passing that the signatory countries had by then granted asylum to several hundred people and yet over the next 9 months this country took in 1,500 migrants when the missions of other countries had ceased selecting from the pool, presumably on proper screening procedures adopted by those nations. I have strong evidence from Foreign Affairs sources pointing to the fact that these immigrants to Australia were improperly screened and I strongly doubt the statement made by  Senator Murphy  in clause 18 of his paper where he says: 
The Australian Government is not considering as significant political leanings on the part of the applicant and the presence or absence of political factors in stated reasons for wishing to leave Chile. 
That statement is, of course, meaningless as it has been open knowledge for years that the Allende Government imported trained political activists to spy and report to him on workers in Government enterprises and to work alongside competent management officials on behalf of the Allende regime. I maintain that the pool of immigrants seeking asylum would be in the majority of cases those of the acute left wing persuasion and members of Allende 's party. I think the House would accept that as a reasonable statement of fact. 
In the few remaining minutes I have I would like briefly to go over the proper screening facilities that should be available. My impression -I do not think I am very far off the mark- is that if a migrant seeks to come to Australia the screening procedures include examination of his employment record, examination of his state of health and previous health record, an examination of his criminal record if any, obtaining an admission that he intends to settle and determining whether he is capable of holding down a job. I believe that those principles were not properly applied in the case to which I have referred. I do not blame the immigration officers who were sent to Chile to augment the meagre numbers of people examining those so-called Chileans seeking entry into this country. What happened is not their fault; it is perhaps the fault of a temporary situation. Anyone with any feeling can feel great sorrow and regard for a displaced person. What happened is also an indictment against the Prime Minister and the Minister for Immigration of that time for taking measures that did not ensure proper safety for this nation in the importation of these people. 
I think the Government owes it to the people of Australia to tell them the facts surrounding this case. I have searched the parliamentary records and Press releases, which reveal that 568 and not 1,500 Chileans have entered this country. Maybe the records are not complete, but there is a case that the Government should answer. I am quite sure that unionists, non-unionists and other sections of the Australian community would agree with my attitude when I say that we do not want to feel that any government, in particular the present Government, is guilty of being biased politically in the selection of immigrants who come into this nation. 
-My purpose in speaking tonight might be pleasant, for a change, because I wish to congratulate the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass).  I congratulate him for going to a place called Hallett's Cove in South Australia and attempting to do what he could to save from subdivision an area of ground which I can only describe as a quite priceless possession of this nation. Geologically, this area, I believe, could hold the key to the origin of continents. As well as important shells and other relics- or whatever the phrase is- of great antiquity that can be found in ancient rock strata, this area possesses scratch marks on rocks of very great age. These scratch marks, I believe, are matters of great historical significance. They support, or it is said that they support, the thesis of Gondwana Land. This area has the most impressive evidence in Australia to support this particular thesis. As I have said, it is a possession of this nation that could foreshadow the discovery of facts affecting not only the continent of Australia but also other continents as they formed. It could, indeed, hold the very key to our existence. I put it to the Committee that the area must be preserved at all costs. 
Historically, the area was bought quite legally by a firm of developers called T. M. Burke for development purposes. Two court cases were fought over this issue by responsible people who lived in the area. The issue was then taken to the Planning Appeals Board in South Australia and the decision was upheld. I gather that the decision was upheld under the declared area clauses of the Town Planning Act of South Australia, which originally was brought down by the Government of  Sir Thomas  Playford, with the enabling Act being brought into being in 1967 by Premier Dunstan. Those are the facts. I have information that suggests that the developers, who currently quite legally hold this section of land, have not at present the capital resources to press ahead with subdivision and other plans in relation to this area. The person who holds the mortgage, I gather, is a  Mr Sheriff.  I think  Mr Sheriff  has put superphosphate on this land. He certainly has reintroduced grazing animals on to it. 
I suggest, therefore, that the time is opportune for the Minister to visit the area again. Let me say in passing that the Minister's visit was most appreciated by those responsible who aim to conserve this tremendously important asset, which is so close to Adelaide. I think the time has come for the Minister to act again and to contact the Premier of South Australia or the Minister's counterpart and suggest in the strongest possible terms that the moment is opportune for the purchase of this particular area from the coast of the Gulf on the one hand and- preferably right up to the railway line on the other. It should be put aside for the future of the Australian nation and for use by the research people who evidently look upon this relic - 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  It being half past ten o'clock p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 1  1  July I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I have almost completed the remarks that I had to make on this matter. It has been suggested to me that  Mr Sheriff  perhaps is not the owner of this block of land at Hallett's Cove. However, the Minister is well aware of the problem I pose to him tonight and he has done the residents of the area the courtesy of visiting and discussing the situation with them. Currently there appears nothing much that he can do because of sections in the Town Planning Act of South Australia. I finish by again beseeching the Minister on behalf of future Australians to act immediately and to contact the Premier of South Australia to try once again to see whether some purchase price cannot be negotiated in order to save this valuable asset. 
I hope I do not appear to be arguing with my colleague, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  when I state that it seems to me to be a perfectly proper decision for a national government to concern itself with regional development. After all Australia, for better or for worse, is now a largely urbanised population and it is only bowing to the inevitable for the Australian Government to take an increasing interest in planning growth centres. The problem is- I expect I am not far away from the thinking of the honourable member for Parramatta at this stage- at what level? A mere funding role would seem to me to be not nearly enough. Yet on the other hand all the capacities, abilities, local knowledge and intellectual brain power certainly do not reside in Canberra. 
This Government holds the greater portion of the public purse. It handles migration quotas and all the major infrastructures relating to telephones, employment, health, social services and to a lesser degree perhaps, education, roads and so on. Furthermore, variables such as liquor costs, Post Office charges and petrol price increases are all fields largely under Federal Government control and responsibility with their strong effect on costs and indeed, therefore, ipso facto, on overall inflation. There is, therefore, a logical reason for Federal Government involvement in regional development at some level. I might in passing refer to the tremendous importance of the costs to which I have just referred in country areas. Area code 800 numbers of the type introduced into the United States, which has made a difference to the efficiency of the private enterprise telephone service in that country, could also increase the telephone efficiency of nationwide telephone calls in this country. Obviously if industries in country towns and regional growth centres are to be successfully established they must not only have a cost structure which is not rising as is the case in the capital cities and which would peculiarly disadvantage those industries but they must also have efficiency of service if they are not to have the normal facilities that are provided in major capital cities. 
The Government has taken what I think is a risk- a probe in the dark if you wish- by attempting to establish a national policy and a series of master plans and guidelines in dealing with State regional growth schemes. There are times when the Government should probe for more knowledge and experience in new fields. The only limitation, of course, should be how great the expenditure can be within the overall economic guidelines of the nation's needs. I have in mind the priorities that governments must establish in relation to expenditures which are responsible expenditures. But expenditure priorities also point to the difficulty of setting policies and firm plans. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  will be delighted to hear that I now intend to quote from Professor Alonso. I give the Minister credit for distributing 3 essays written by Professor Alonso which are not necessarily or entirely in agreement with the policies of his own Department. I do not intend to fall for the easy bait, as the Minister may have noticed, by selectively pulling out hunks of those essays in order to criticise the Government. I think we have to take a more responsible stance than that. Professor Alonso said: 
One thing seems certain. A national urban and regional policy Tor Australia cannot be embodied in a master plan to be produced in the next few years by technical and scientific approaches. A master plan is possible when purposes are clear, when processes are well understood, and when the conditional futures are predictable. None of these conditions obtain. 
Some years ago at the Adelaide University a group of us sounded out the representatives of approximately 100 business firms as to which factor was the most important in relation to their decisions as to where to locate industry. Almost without exception they gave the answer 'human factors'. Of course, by this they meant that their top executive personnel- their officers and other key personnel- wished to live in the capital cities. This was the biggest single factor that came out of the survey. Considerations such as economic areas came after that. I think the Government would do well to remember that encouragements, incentives and devices have to be found to overcome that major decision which has the main bearing on where an industry is located. 
Monarto, the South Australian regional growth centre, which I hope will remain within the boundaries of the electorate of Angas, has little chance of attracting service or heavy industries as I see the position when one thinks of the comparable pull of Adelaide which is close by, Albury-Wodonga or indeed other smaller growth areas in South Australia. The South Australian Government has instructed 2 departmentsI think the Department of Lands and the Department of Agriculture- to move to Monarto. This implies a downgrading of agricultural and other services to the people north of Adelaide. I imagine that legal firms in Adelaide will now have to search titles in Monarto which is SO miles away and that this will mean an increased cost to the consumers in Adelaide. There is, of course, for reasons already described, resentment among many of the personnel of these 2 departments who feel that they have been discriminated against. If this is the case it might be a good idea for this discrimination to be eliminated. It could be that in the future Monarto could become a government city as has happened in the case of Canberra. Who knows, if this is one of the incentives needed to overcome the problem maybe we might live to see the day when all departments and even the Parliament House of South Australia are established at Monarto rather than Adelaide. 
I was glad to see that the Minister stated in an annual report which I received this week that the first residents of Monarto would be living in the area by 1977. 1 was so struck by this statement that I issued a Press release to the Murray Bridge newspapers because I thought they would be fascinated by the thought. I hope that the Minister may yet turn out to be right. But I would lay him a dollar that he is at least S years out in his prediction, unless he is thinking of a caretaker living in a bag house with an outhouse out the back. I have the awful vision as I thought of this dreadful possibility of seeing the Premier of South Australia standing on a wind swept hill reading his poetry to an admiring audience of maggies and galahs while flying dust turned his greying locks into a reddish hue. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clauses 7 to 10- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 11 
1 ) Section 84 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraph (b) and substituting the following paragraph:- "(b) in the case of a licence granted by way of the renewal of the licence- for a period commencing on the day after the expiration of the last previous licence in respect of the station and ending on the expiration of such period (being a period of not less than 3 months and not more than 3 years), as is specified in the licence.". 
* *  * 
-The first matter I wish to mention briefly this evening concerns a very famous agricultural research centre in South Australia- the Waite Agricultural Research Institute. I thank the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  for responding to my telephone call and being present to hear my plea. In its original form the Waite Institute was endowed by the manager of a big pastoral concern. He did well enough out of his trade as manager to make this magnificent endowment to the people of South Australia. The Institute has been funded by private endowment and by the Federal Government. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation conducts special research, such as a soil unit, in association with the Waite Institute. The Waite Institute has a great international reputation. Indeed molybdenum, a trace element, was discovered at the Waite Institute. I mention that in passing to indicate that this is a famous research institute in the agricultural sphere. 
I understand that for some time the Institute has been receiving approximately one-seventh of the funds that the Adelaide University receives from Federal sources. News that I have been given has caused me much disquiet. Because of a decision at the University council meeting to allocate funds on a pro rata basis for students the proportion of those funds available to the Waite Institute is to be reduced. The Director of the Waite Institute,  Mr Quirk-  one of a long line of famous agricultural scientists who have occupied the position of director- is perturbed about the future. 
That is so, and I thank the honourable member for bis interjection. The Institute has 3 problems. Firstly, there is the matter of funding; secondly, there is the consequence resulting from inflationary pressures on returns from endowments; and, thirdly, there is the overall problem of higher wages for scientific officers and others. The importance of this institution is such that I ask the Minister to consider carefully this matter and, if I might proffer a suggestion from where I sit, perhaps examine the possibility of regarding the Waite Institute on a basis similar to the way in which research schools such as the John Curtin School of Medical Research are regarded and of making a separate subvention to it not necessarily in association with a university grant as such. It seems to me that this might be an appropriate way of giving the Institute its own independence so that it can provide a proper atmosphere in which research workers can work to the benefit of this nation. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I wish to refer to a matter which I was unable to mention during the Estimates debate because the gag was applied before I could raise it I refer to 4 people who were refused loans under the Defence Service Homes Act. The first man is Robert Lloyd of Yumali and the second a  Mr Aitchison  of Mundoora. I believe that in the last week 2 more cases from the Karoonda area in my electorate have come to light. I make the point from the word go that the law has not been changed. I have no reason to suppose that the administration of the law has been changed but for some reason, about which I am not fully satisfied, 4 exservicemen have been refused loans for homes. Robert Lloyd is a former Vietnam soldier. He was refused a loan on the basis that the value of the land on which the home was to be built was insufficiently high presumably to give the Government, through the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, some chance of an adequate resale value if death occurred prior to the loan being discharged. I imagine that is the reason for the refusal of the loan. 
I appeal to the Government to regard this matter in a non-political way. If there was a fault in the law when we were in government and that fault continues under this Government let us get together to produce appropriate amendments to the Defence Service Homes Act because it seems quite ludicrous for Vietnam ex-servicemen to be discriminated against because they choose to live outback in the country. That may be a slight over-simplification of the position but that is how it is regarded by branches of the Returned Services League in my electorate.  Mr Lloyd  has made one statement for which he can hardly be blamed and which gives perspective to the argument. I do not necessarily agree with his remark but he says: 
It makes you think. Our country can spend $2m on a painting, but it can 't afford to lend us $ 1 2,000. 
I do not necessarily agree with the logicality of that argument but one cannot blame people for thinking this way. Their applications for loans are turned down after they have given years of service to their country because they happen to live in an outback area. 
Is the honourable member claiming relationship? The point I make is that although this person lives in an area 80 miles from Adelaide it is not really the outback. It is beside the Adelaide to Melbourne highway. Under these conditions the loan has been turned down because the value of the land is not great enough. Frankly, I can completely go along with his next remark in the newspaper article that it 'stinks' because I think that this country could do without this sort of discrimination. I ask the Government most respectfully to have a look at this matter which I would have brought up when the Estimates were being discussed except for other reasons which I have described. 
Perhaps I might finish my remarks by saying that the local Returned Services League Branch at Coonalpyn took this matter up very heavily without any change in attitude by the authorities concerned. The sub-branches in my electorate took the matter up and I told them that I would try to raise the matter at the first opportunity in Parliament. I do so tonight. The Returned Services League of South Australia has taken it up.  Mr Hunter  from the Action Association of Exservicemen, as I think his organisation is called, has taken it up. I have no doubt that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  in another place who is responsible for these matters is probably being approached as well. I add my voice to those who seek some amendment to remove what I regard as an apparent injustice in the way the Act is now working, even if perhaps we did not see these particular instances in the past. 
I wish to comment on the specific purpose grants to these 2 States. These grants are a matter of some concern to my State of South Australia and I think should be - 
-It does not matter if I substitute. That is the business of my Party not yours. 
You are the most overpaid Assistant Whip who has ever appeared in this House. 
MrSPEAKER-Order! 

 - Mr Speaker, I am sorry to transgress and I will continue to address my remarks through the Chair, if I may. 
I was about to say, when I was so rudely gagged, that South Australia has a strong interest in specific purpose grants. The House will bear in mind that the Bill deals with specific purpose grants for 2 States. I am interested in this matter because if my memory is correct there has been no debate and not a word spoken up to this time about specific purpose grants as they affect South Australia. I do not wish to hold up the third reading stage of this Bill. However, I have been forced to speak at this time because proper debate was not allowed to take place on behalf of the State from which I come. 
The problem facing South Australia at present is clearly this: The Government of South Australia has for some time been taking part in negotiations for grants and has put its views and evidence to the Grants Commission. But despite the specific purpose grants that have been made, a revenue situation has been forced on South Australia- and undoubtedly this applies also to Queensland, about which I know a lot less- that is contributing very heavily to the inflationary spiral that is hitting all sections of the community at present. This problem has been highlighted by the Budgets that have been brought down by various State governments and by the revenue raising steps that have been taken by local government bodies in all States. I am suggesting that the financial policies of this Government have caused the States and local government bodies to turn to many of their own revenue raising activities. This is the reason the Premier of South Australia is going throughout the length and breadth of the country today producing financial schemes which he says this Government should adopt in order to alleviate the financial position in which South Australia finds itself. 
The principle is a more general one than that. Every State Premier has had to increase the revenue raised by his Budget because he cannot get the kind of specific purpose grants needed to meet the financial requirements of his State. It is no secret that the Premiers of States such as South Australia and New South Wales have been forced to bring in revenue raising programs such as an increase of 6c in the price of petrol. Nothing could contribute more heavily to the inflationary situation throughout Australia than the economic position that has been forced upon the States by this Government's fiscal and monetary policies. I think it is quite proper that someone from this side of the House should be given the chance to point out the difficulties with which many of the States are being faced because of the fact that grants allocated for general purposes and specific purposes are not high enough. 
It is bad enough for the people who live in the metropolitan areas to be faced with this problem. But the people who are specifically hit are those people who live some distance away from the metropolitan areas. These people pay a high proportion of their cost of production in increased fuel costs, increased cost of Post Office services and a legion of other costs. I think it is proper that this matter should be brought before the Government tonight so that it can see quite clearly- even if it does not realise that this has happened- that if it squeezes the States to the degree where they cannot effect proper economies they can do nothing else but increase revenue raising charges which affect the total livelihood of many small industries and the people who live in those States. 
I notice the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  who is at the table, is indicating that perhaps I have spoken for long enough. I do not agree with him, but it is not my intention to belabour points unduly, engage in repetition or try to disrupt in any way the program of the House which is extremely tight. Therefore I would just like to sum up the points that I have been making. The specific purpose grants are appreciated by the Government of the State of South Australia which is well aware of what is involved because it has taken part in the negotiations. There is still a shortfall of $ 12m in terms of the current Budget in my State. Provisional revenue raising procedures and a provisional Budget have been forecast in South Australia to make good the shortfall if it cannot be made up in other ways. I beseech the Federal Government to make quite sure, if it has the problems caused by inflation at heart, that the State governments are not squeezed to the extent that every section of the community will suffer from increased land and petrol taxes or from State revenue raising procedures that will have a very great effect on the people of the State, whichever State it may be. I have raised this matter tonight on behalf of the people of the States. I have put forward their point of view. The State governments feel they should not have to introduce measures that will cause inflation to rage within their State boundaries. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expored 
-I wish to refer in particular, amongst these Bills which are being considered cognately, to Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) 1974 and Excise Tariff Bill 1974. It seems to me that those are the Bills concerned with the excise rates on the brandy industry. It was drawn to my attention a few minutes ago that in a speech made the week before last to a farmers group the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
I am happy to let the facts speak for themselves. 
This is to a rural audience. He continued: 
I hope you will be happy to listen to them. I put it to you that no government has done more for farmers than my - 
And he went on in that vein. I wish to deal today with at least one area- I believe there are others- where the primary producers are far from happy with the performance of this Government. 
I refer first of all to a letter I had from a friend of mine who has invoices showing the increasing costs of brandy in a 13-month period. For reasons that are best known to him- he probably runs a hotel or an eating house- he buys his brandy in 5-gallon lots. The figures he gives are as follows: On 26 June 1973- that was immediately prior to the 1973 Budget-for his 5-gallon pack he paid $49.40. On 1 May 1974-tnat is after the 1973 Budget-he paid $85.45 and on 1 November 1974-after the 1974 Budget and after the mini-Budget- he paid $125 for similar lots. The price rose from $49.40 to $ 1 25 for his 5- gallon pack of the same brand of brandy. I must be quite honest and say that I cannot find precisely the same proportion of increases in the charges per bottle of brandy over the same period, but he has the invoices for these particular increases. 
Let us couple those figures with the grower returns. Under South Australian legislation to set up its Prices Commission it is provided that an average figure for the growers to receive for the varieties of grapes used in brandy production is $70 a ton. At the same time the Federal Government with the excise on the brandy produced from one ton of grapes takes approximately $1,200. Let us hark back to the Prime Minister's statement. A lot of grower groups in my electorate and in other places as well are livid with rage at this wide disparity between the $70 the growers receive and the $1,200 that the Government is currently taking. I have made that point before in this House and I make it again because I find that wherever I go even amongst some of my friends they do not realise that this is the situation. They do not realise the fury of that section of primary producers which is languishing due to a variety of actions. 
It might be proper to inquire into why they are languishing. Firstly, they applied for tariff protection some time ago against the increasing percentage of imported 'brandy' coming into Australia. A Tariff Board report was brought down on this matter. I do not wish to grind this point unduly but I think that without any question it would have been the worst Tariff Board report that was ever brought down. The growers found that the whole of the Board's remarks were really based on the supposed fact that there was a surplus of brandy production over requirements in Australia. It is a mystery why sales or apparent local market, plus export, figures for any given year were matched in this Tariff Board report against production for the same year. It seems quite easy to establish that in a growing population and in a growing market situation there was just no relevance between matching with that figure as against the other figure. 
Section 1, sub-section (ii) on page 5 of the report refers to the fact that brandy is held in bond for a minimum of 2 years from the date of production before it can be sold. That, to my mind at any rate, is a tacit assumption that in a moving situation one cannot look at the year of production and prophesy into the future that there is an over-supply situation in the brandy industry. Of course, in fact that is precisely what finally transpired. It was only a few months ago that I read in a newspaper that an amount of dried grapes, I presume of inferior quality, had been released for spirit production. If ever there was certain proof that the Tariff Board report was totally wrong, it was the need to do that. I suppose one could take into consideration the unfortunate fire at the biggest distillery in Australia, Berri Co-operative Winery and Distillery, and say that that could have meant a shortfall in brandy production, but even that is not the whole truth because a lot of that brandy was scheduled over a period of years for sale into the market place. So I just draw attention- I hope properly and politely- to that particular Tariff Board report on the brandy industry and to the fact that when that industry applied for some protection against the inroads being made at that time the Board was, I think, open to a lot of question as regards its accuracy of reporting. I say that quite politely. 
The current situation, therefore, is that there is a shortage of brandy within the industry. There is a shortage of spirit for the making of fortified wines. We now have the position where the Prime Minister, when opening the Kaiser-Stuhl Wines extensions about 6 months ago in my electorate, advised all grape growers to get out of the field of dual variety grapes and into growing the types of grapes that would make dry whites and dry reds. I presume that he is entitled to his opinion, but this argument totally ignores the traditional role of dual variety grapes in irrigation areas. Apart from the fact that they yield better and pay better for those who grow them, which is an attractive thought to those who plant grapes for this purpose, traditionally over many years the dried fruit industry has been founded very largely on varieties such as gordos and sultanas. In my electorate the dried fruit industry is languishing, and the Industries Assistance Commission is in a proper old tangle at present, I believe, because it cannot indeed find one farm in South Australia in my electorate which consistently grows only grapes for dried fruit purposes. So we have this fruit salad situation and the flux situation in which, depending on seasonable demand for which is, so is dictated the direction in which those dual varieties go. With more modern technology a lot of these dual variety grapes have a proper and, I think, a permanent role in the wine industry. It is quite improper for people to denigrate, for instance, the new fruity gordo being produced at the Berri winery. I hear within the wine industry that this could well make a name for that particular area, because it is such a fine product of its type by any world standards. So there is one new outlet for dual variety grapes, in the particular variety of gordos 
The Tariff Board deals with dual variety grapes on page 1 1 of its report. The implication in the report appears to be that all such grapes produced above that amount required for wine are made into brandy. There is no evidence that this is so, and I say that for the sorts of reasons that I have just described. The report also says that there is a standing need for grapes for this purpose. On the other hand, it was very interesting to read recently that an amount of dried fruit grapes was allowed for the production of spirits, as I have already mentioned. So, on the evidence of the figures that I have already read to the House on retail costs and on the evidence of the amount of return the grower gets for his commodity as against the 94 per cent, which I think is the greater amount the Government takes off for the same tonnage of grapes, the problem quite clearly is that at present the industry is being squeezed out of existence. 
The House has heard me speak before about the brandy industry and particularly those private companies which are involved in the production of brandy. I have mentioned them by name on many occasions. The one that is most seriously hit would be St Agnes Wines Pty Ltd of Renmark. This is a case of a private company still trying to find more than Sim over a phasing-in period of years to pay off a matter that properly should not conform to this particular debate, namely the effect on its stocks as held of the Government's revaluation action. Let us have a look at this situation. It is this type of action that hits the brandy industry more than any other side of the industry because the maturation period is longer. The average maturation period is just on 3 years. But for a quality brandy product the maturation period is infinitely longer. So these private companies have to find their amounts of $lm or whatever it may be in times like this for that purpose. 
As well as that, oyer this period of 13 months, as I described in quoting the retail prices, the Government's rake-off through excise has gone up by 178 per cent. So these private companies have to find that amount. As well as that there is the equalisation of the brandy excise as against those of its Australian built competitors. I can understand, I suppose, why people could think that that is a good idea. But it is well estabished that the rum industry, as a by-product of the sugar industry, is of no particular or real importance to the sugar industry. The vodka industry or the whisky industry is of no real importance to the grain producers of Australia. One could go even further and say that the beer industry of Australia is of no real importance to the entire grain growing industry. 
The honourable member suggests that I have gone too far. But even if we get off grains and concentrate on barley, the implication in the average year of the beer industry to the barley industry is not very great, and it is becoming less as more and more of a demand occurs for grain as a foodstuff, as a stock feed, rather than for other reasons. But that last point, I suppose, is not as valid as the first one. The point is that this Government and, I believe, the Tariff Board in its report, were grossly culpable in failing to realise that the outlet for people growing grapes in these areas is not the grape consumption market in Australia; it is entirely the market for wine and brandy. It was for that very logical reason that in many years gone past this advantage was given to the brandy industryalbeit a marginal, one- over and above that onus of excise applied to other Australian spirits. 
Let me follow this up. I accept now that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is at the table, does not follow the impeccable logic that I have tried to put to the House. If he does not, that is fair enough. But even then the brandy industry has been hopelessly disadvantaged. I would remind the House of the remarks I was able to make during the consideration of the Estimates a little while ago. I mentioned that the industry itself had written to the Government asking that 2 points be considered prior to the introduction of the last Budget. I wish to refer .to only one of them at this stage. The first point is this: 
The attention of the Government is respectfully drawn to the rate of Customs Duty and Excise Duty applied to imported and Australian produced brandy: 
Imported Brandy Customs Tariff Item 22.09.120-S6.19 per litre alcohol. 
Australian produced Brandy Excise Tariff Item 2 A $6.00 per litre alcohol. 
Difference in favour of Australian produced Brandy- $0. 1 9 per litre alcohol. 
This position was arrived at on what was supposed to be a level argument. When making this comparison of the differential applying in relation to brandy, the attention of the Government should be drawn to the difference in the rate of customs duty and excise duty applying in the case of imported whisky and Australian produced whisky. The difference in the duties works out to 66c per litre alcohol in favour of Australian produced whisky. The industry has not been slow to pick up in the re-juggling of the excise figures the fact that the Government not only has removed what I think was a proper advantage for the people in the brandy industry who produce the raw material and who have no other outlet for it but also, having supposedly equalised the position, the Government gives Australian brandy an advantage of only 19c per litre alcohol over its imported competitor. I repeat that in the current situation the Australian whisky industry has been given a 66c competitive advantage over its imported counterpart. So no matter which way we look at the position, the juggling of the figures to produce what the Government thought would be equal treatment for the brandy industry in Australia has resulted in its receiving unequal treatment. 
I say again that the Government must do more than say that it will look at the position.  Senator 
Wriedt says: 'We must have a look at this total taxation on the industry. It is obviously not good enough '. I think that he stated that 7 months ago. The industry has played very fair with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  It has gone about making its submissions on this matter very quietly and in a low key way. I have gone very quietly about the job of trying to make the Government see some sense in this matter. But the time has been reached at which the industry is heartily fed up. Those engaged in the industry do not know whom to see any more. Nobody will listen. People nod their heads wisely and nothing happens. Recently, the Government took action to try to cut down company tax and personal tax in an effort to inject some funds into the private sector. It did this so that there could be some room and encouragement for investment. But this has not happened in this industry and this is one of many industries in which it is not happening. The industry now needs real help. In a year or two it will probably be far too late for many private companies that have been hopelessly disadvantaged while, one cannot help but say, these decisions have been forced on them in a situation which encouraged growth and the quality production of their brandy. That situation now no longer applies. I think that it is beyond belief that one industry should be so discriminated against. 
I remind the House that I speak for the industry. I suppose that 99 per cent of the brandy produced in Australia is produced in my electorate. You will forgive, me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if I rather tend to grind the point because of that. But not only do the actions of the Government discriminate against my electorate. It is very easy also to ponder whether they do not discriminate against the entire State of South Australia. Although the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  reminds me of a small case where I am wrong, 1 believe that 99 per cent of the brandy produced in Australia is produced in South Australia. In addition to that, I state that with the effect this legislation in regard to the excise on brandy is having, it goes without saying that the Government is penalising the total Australian brandy industry for the very reasons that I have put forward. If the Government penalises that industry, it does not penalise just the people who work in the factory as is the case in the breweries. Its actions go right back to the people who grow the grapes and who, according to the figures that I have produced for the House today, are being disadvantaged. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to incorporate all the Tariff Board recommendations of 30 June 1973 (entitled The Motion Picture, Film and Television Programs Report) in any legislation setting up an Australian film industry. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture: Is it correct that the reason for the delay in announcing sugar prices is due to the fact that the submission you put to Cabinet 8 weeks ago has not yet been considered? Is it also true that both the Queensland Government and the Queensland Sugar Board have been asked to prepare memoranda on the submission you have so far put to them? Does industry, and the canned fruit industry particularly, expect increasing prices which will upset their economies as a result of the submission that the Minister has put forward to Cabinet? 
-Traditions run deep and so does partisanship in relation to debates of this nature. I must say that when the debate started off I was not at all in agreement with the propositions put forward by my friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  Perhaps a joint select committee should be set up to consider electoral reform. However, the further this debate has gone the more apparent I think it becomes to everybody that political rancour, political suspicion and doubts must intrude themselves on this sort of debate. Having listened to the remarks of several honourable members I have rather given up the unequal struggle. I rather doubt whether I will be able to adopt the lofty train of thought that I hoped I would be able to adopt. For instance, I was reminded by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  a little while ago of a story I heard the other day. I cannot vouch for its authenticity, but the story was that some union bosses and union shop stewards were under heavy siege. Two hundred or three hundred of the rank and file wanted a secret ballot on a certain issue. After a further half hour of debate the union bosses finally gave way and said: 'All right, you can have your secret ballot. There will be 2 ballot boxes; the ayes to the right and the noes to the left'. To some degree or other this is exactly the sort of problem that is rearing its head now. I suppose it is quite true that all political parties are suspicious when another political party proposes changes to the Electoral Act, especially when the system as it exists is acknowledged to be fair. We need only refer to the words used by the Leader of the House and Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  when he introduced the Bill. He said: 
We have not suffered the electoral malpractices common in many other countries. 
We on this side of the House go along with that very much. Of course, I can quote no better authority in regard to these matters than the Leader of the House. He has specialised in this field. In fact, I would have thought that he was the expert political juggler of all time. I was interested in the comment of the honourable member for Bowman who said that he knew all about electoral malpratice, because in Queensland one could not win a seat unless one did know all about it. Quite frankly, here again is the problem with a debate of this nature. I must say that I am disappointed with the Leader of the House who has been in this place a great many years. One would presume that he would have acquired great wisdom, but he is not showing much wisdom when he attempts to bulldoze a Bill of this gravity through the House in a matter of 1 1 days since we first saw the Bill. 
-That is right. He has already given notice to the House that he will allow only 3 hours debate on this issue. Quite frankly, in my own Party 3 hours would have been insufficient time for a debate of this nature. I would like to do what I do not normally do, and that is tell the House a little more than I normally think proper about Party meetings. I have had a matter on our Party agenda for two and a half months, and that matter bears on the central point of the Minister's Bill which we are debating tonight. Why have we in our Party not got to this agenda item? Again one enters this area of political rancour which makes objective opinions on this subject so impossible. The reason is quite simple. The Government, in its wisdom, decided that it did not want a major debate in Caucus so it brought this Bill into this Parliament midway through last Wednesday morning. The Opposition, without all the knowledge of the Department to back it up or the ability to seek further information, was forced into the position of having to consider it, together with an avalanche of minor legislation scooped up and dumped onto it as though with a front-end loader. The Opposition has to spend the whole of its Party meetings considering this plethora" of legislation, this rash of legislation which regrettably crops up towards the tail end of a sessional period. 
I mention that as a point at issue because the Minister for Services and Property! does not do credit to his own aims embodied in this Bill, if he is deeply sincere about it- I see no particular reason to doubt that- by refusing to allow a proper atmosphere for rational consideration of this matter. To demonstrate my point, the matter I have had on my Party's agenda now for well over 2 months deals with limited preferential voting. I saw problems with such a system. I had heard the Minister in general terms give his views on it in the past. I felt nevertheless that there was some merit in it so I produced a paper which I have here- quite a short one of 3 pages which many members of my Party have readcalled 'The Simplified Preferential System'. The only major difference between my scheme and the proposal in the Minister's Bill was that, whereas the Minister's proposal gives rise to the obvious doubt which exists in my Party and no doubt outside it- for example, in certain intellectual quarters- and which is implied in the Minister's scheme, as the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  described very accurately a while ago, that the proposal in the Bill could amount to a first past the post system with a certain amount of weakening, my proposal aimed at overcoming that. Might I add that I had a lot of support from many members in my Party, such as my South Australian colleague, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson). 
My scheme aimed at giving 2 alternatives. It aimed at allowing people to vote precisely as they do now under the same conditions- there were minor amendments to the present voting method at the end of the paper but we will leave them aside- or to vote for one candidate and no more. However there was a provision in my scheme which made it mandatory for every Party and every independent candidate to register a week before polling day, according to law, his preferential order. His party's preference would be superimposed on that one vote by the particular electoral officer. 
The Minister says that it is a fantasy. I do not know who presents the biggest fantasy at this stage, a person who tries to bulldoze a scheme through without giving Parliament a chance to consider its merits or a person who proposes a scheme, such as mine, which is in general use in countries like the United States of America. The difference, to get back to the point- 
-I think that is right. I must applaud the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  for his comment. If the Minister says that the proposal is nonsense then, ipso facto, it makes sense. I go along with that comment to a limited degree. Let us get back to the point. 
-Listen to who is talking! If there is doubt as to whether a limited preferential system could in time through popular demand become a first past the post system, according to many of us that would not be in the best interests of the nation as a whole because we feel that the full preferential system has its merits. On the basis that it has, my scheme aims to superimpose the entire preferential voting pattern of a candidate on to the vote of the elector who votes for that candidate only. There is not much difference one might say but there is a big difference in other ways because at least every preference pro forma is exercised and has to be exercised under that scheme. This is only one of many interesting alternatives that people of intelligence and probity and people who are imaginative could have produced in a more rational situation. But it is hardly a rational situation when the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  points to the impossibility of a Labor vote being properly exercised under the present scheme. I would ask him to look at the percentage results and see whether the people's wishes have not been properly mirrored within this chamber over the years. 
Of course, the obvious answer is that they have been accurately mirrored. As regards the Senate, I hasten to point out that my scheme is aimed only at Senate voting. I am completely happy with House of Representatives voting procedures and their administration. But quite patently, it is absurd to ask people to fill in a voting card numbered one to seventy-three. There is not a great deal of support in the community or in other circles for limited preferential voting. Given enough time- who knows- I might have been able to convince my own Party that my simplified method might have met the measure of the day and more accurately measured the wishes of the community. This is what the Minister tonight has not enabled this side of the House to do. If this Bill passes this House and is later defeated in the Upper House, it will be entirely the Minister's own fault because he has not had confidence enough with the Parliament as such to develop a scheme and to produce an atmosphere which would have removed the partisanship and the backlash that we have seen from time to time during this debate. 
I mention that particular scheme because, if I might repeat myself, it is only one example of how an intelligent sub-committee of the Parliament might well have approached the topic. Of course, what will happen is that by next year we will be in Government and we will produce a new electoral scheme. Honourable members opposite laugh. If it does not suit the cheerful galahs on the other side of the House, that is their funeral. I hope that if we produce a scheme such as this it is one that gives news of the Opposition party, as it will be then, a chance to toss these issues backwards and forwards within their own Party room. It will need five or six hours, whether it be our Bill or whether it be their Bill. This is exactly what has not happened on this occasion. In my view, the quickest way to sicken the people of an infinitely desirable method of preferential voting is to make the process too complex. There is no question about this. 
The inanity of your interjections sometimes amazes me. Having said that, let us look at the by-products of that statement. I do not see my scheme leaning towards any eventful first past the post system. Nor do I agree altogether with a statement made by my Leader on 19 September in which he said that already there are really only 2 systems of voting- full preferential or first past the post. I suppose that it is possible to look at the scheme I have put before the House as an implied full preferential voting system. For instance, I do not think that one ought to worry very much in relation to whether people do want to vote for an individual specifically. 1 think that it has been one of the conditions of the Electoral Act for the lower House for some time that voters do not have to vote for the last person whose name is shown on a voting paper. Quite patently, it would be absurd for the House not to take the same point of view for a full voting card in the Senate. It is quite ridiculous that people who do not want to vote for the Communist team in fact have to do so. I know that in my own State in the last election the Communist Party drew No. 1 position and the Liberal Party drew No. 2 position on the ballot paper. It was strange how many people voted first for the Liberal Party, went right through the card and completely ignored the Communist Party because it happened to be No. 1 on the ballot paper. Fair is fair. If this principle applies to lower House elections I think the same should apply to Senate elections. I point out that the difficulty does not exist in House of Representatives elections; the difficulty quite patently exists in Senate elections. It seems quite absurd that people should be required to number 1 to 73 on a ballot paper in any Senate election at all. 
The State in which ALP malpractices are most legion and most well known throughout political circles at university level is, of course, Queensland. There is still no other State that has produced 2 circles joined by a line and looking like the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  The dumb-bell mentality is entirely well known in Queensland. Let us face it: These are some of the problems we have to overcome. This is significant again of the partisanship and the gamesmanship of a political arena in which no calm and objective judgment can be made on these issues. I am quite sure the Minister knows very well how he sees the pattern emerging in the Senate. I give him credit for having a little political acumen and wisdom in his wish to have this Bill sent to the Upper House as soon as possible having already taken note of how the forces are drawing themselves up. 
This House and this Parliament must take great care to protect a system that is fair and that mirrors the wishes of the people. The Government has tried to bulldoze its ideas through tonight. I do not think that the Minister, in spite of his great seniority, has been fair to the Parliament as such. He should know that there would be a more enlightened approach if he gave proper time for Parties to debate issues in the Party rooms. Five or six hours at least are needed. Wednesday a.m. sittings of this House have made null and void any proper attempt by Parties- I suspect including his own- at debate in Party rooms. It is not enough in this case for one Minister to wish to impress his ideas alone on this Parliament. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, said that I was in grave error when, in the course of my second reading speech, I said that the House is being called upon to sit during Wednesday mornings. I wish to make it quite plain to the Minister that, in spite of his opinion to the contrary, we have sat on 17 occasions on Wednesday mornings. 
Question put: 
-Order! The honourable member for Curtin should not move his amendment until the second Bill, which is the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, is called on. Although the House is debating the Bills together, that Bill has not been called on. 
While not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the provisions of the Bill do not provide adequate relief to the taxation of deceased estates in a period of unprecedented inflation. 
I believe that the proposed amendment is rather self-explanatory. We believe the Government's proposals in respect of estate duty do not meet the present situation. We are living in a period of extremely high inflation. The exemption provisions of the Bill are insufficient and the Opposition has some reservations about the proposal to make special provision for a matrimonial home which is left to a spouse, simply on the ground that it is wrong to single out a particular type of asset. What ought to be proposed is a general exemption to the surviving spouse. 
We will in the future certainly outline our policy in this area. It refers to all categories of beneficiaries and set sums that we believe are more in keeping with the present position. But certainly, with inflation racing at present at perhaps 20 per cent per annum, when exemptions are set they need in all fairness to be revised quickly. This Bill is before the House now. The present situation is not really provided for, certainly not adequately. The legislation, after it is enacted, will probably take a long while to come back to this place for amendment. I place on record our views that it is inadequate in the respect I have mentioned and at the appropriate time I shall move the foreshadowed amendment on behalf of the Opposition. 
I, too, congratulate the Government on bringing the River Murray Waters Bill into the House tonight. I will not mention the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill because it is purely pro forma and a machinery matter. The River Murray Waters Bill follows on logically and well from what I might refer to as the David Fairbairn Bill on quantity. In my State at least measures designed to improve water quality are a logical extensionI congratulate the Government upon taking this course- and they are of tremendous importance, as mentioned by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  to those who live downstream on the River Murray. I take up the point made by the honourable member. I do not know that I am any more prepared to blame Victoria than I am to blame New South Wales. To be equally just, let me say that a lot of the South Australian attempts to control water salinity through drainage above the Waikerie area are not of very great value either. I think it is proper that these things should be openly said and debated in this House. 
A little while ago I found myself leading for the Opposition on a similar Bill. On that occasion the Minister at the table was the Minister for Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  who is also at the table tonight. Due to the extreme tolerance of the Chair,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we broadened the debate a little to include the powers of the River Murray Commission and several other most interesting topics. I only repeat tonight what I said on that occasion. I hope that the Federal' Government, by subterfuge, psychology or any other means possible, can gain proper reception for its ideas within the States that at present constitute the River Murray Commission, because the control of quality at this level is inextricably involved with the veto right of any one State in relation to flows along the River Murray system. 
If there is one drought year after a lot of wet years there is a grave danger that the Government can be lulled into a false sense of security. The Minister shakes his head. I point out that most political animals are geared very largely to the people in an electorate. I am fearful that many people have forgotten the years of high salinity in the River Murray flow. I acknowledge the Minister's point of view but I take advantage of this opportunity to remind honourable members and people elsewhere that high salinity and drainage problems could occur within the next 5 years in the main stream of the Murray itself. It is of no earthly use doing what we are so apt to do in this and other places, that is, to wait for the awful moment to arrive when we start to clutch at straws- to introduce Pels schemes and all sorts of strange and expensive ways of weaving our way out of the difficulties we are in. 
I hope that from the statistics that are compiled as a result of this Bill real programs will be undertaken to safeguard not only the growers who are the concern of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  who represents an electorate further upstream on the Darling River, but also the people who live in the lower reaches of the main stream. I have even heard the Murray River on one or two occasions described as the sewer. But it is not that, it is a most attractive river. However one can understand the use of that term. The river is of tremendous importance to those people who live near it and whose livelihood depends on the quality of the water. In my own State of South Australia 90 per cent of the population depends on water from the Murray system to sustain industrial growth and to provide for the normal water usage of families now and into the future. Perhaps it is not the time now to debate futuristic measures of water control, whether such measures involve use of atomic power or membrane type nitration systems. I ignore these possibilities because for the next decade or two the important objective is that we reach a situation where all States are rational and big enough to perceive the difficulties of those who live downstream. It is essential that we arm ourselves with the weapons to control the quality of water. That is the aim of this Bill. 
Another great project is at risk if the quality of water is not maintained as the main stream of the Murray flows towards its outlet beyond Goolwa in South Australia. In this connection I refer to a paper entitled 'Monarto, South Australia' which has been taken from the Cities Commission report to the Australian Government and dated 30 June 1 973. In that paper it is stated: 
In 1972 the South Australian Government took significant steps in urban planning by agreeing that an upper limit of 1.3 million for the future population of Adelaide was desirable - 
I will presently prophesy the future. The publication indicated that the site for the proposed new city of Monarto was selected in 1972. It is located near the town of Murray Bridge. The document continued: 
It was concluded that the Monarto project formed a desirable component of forward planing for Adelaide, and that development should commence at the earliest opportunity. As the new town's potential is directly related to the growth of Adelaide, the project is heavily dependent for its viability on the strong support of the South Australian Government, particularly in its early stages. 
I will not repeat what I said a few weeks ago on this matter as regards to competition from industries at Mount Gambier, Redcliffs, Adelaide itself, Christies Beach and Albury-Wodonga. The document continued: 
The analysis shows that in order to achieve a population in Monarto of 170,000 by the year 2000, approximately onethird of the estimated growth of Adelaide will need to be diverted to the new town . . . 
Although Adelaide's growth problems are not as acute as those of other large Australian cities its people and its Government have become increasingly disturbed about the deterioration in its quality of life. 
If the new suburb of Tuggeranong in Canberra were in Adelaide I would be even more disturbed than I am now. The document continued: 
In March 1972 therefore a preliminary investigation was undertaken by a Government committee . . . 
In many ways the project has not got far beyond that point. There is still no accepted plan for the growth of Monarto. Much of the reason for this is the problem of the quality of water and the fact that the Australian Government has decided to develop Albury-Wondonga upstream. I have referred to this development on more than one occasion in this chamber and I hope that never again will governments lightly decide to build major growth centres upstream from other major centres of population. If they do, I hope they provide signed agreements to establish the maximum permissible degree of salinity and the maximum permissible content of solids in the water to protect people who live downstream. 
I repeat that the opening comment in the paper 'Monarto, South Australia' was to the effect that in 1972 the South Australian Government took significant steps in its urban planning by agreeing to an upper limit of 1.3 million for the future population of Adelaide. That government said this was the desirable limit. If we assume that the metropolitan population will continue to grow by 1.8 per cent per year, which was the current rate at that time, the 1.3 million ceiling will be reached by 1997. The effect of Monarto 's diversion of 7,500 persons a yearthat is, assuming a predominantly linear growth pattern- is therefore to postpone the attainment of the 1.3 million population ceiling until well after the year 2000. As the House will recognise, this is because the growth factor in South Australia, and even more importantly in Adelaide, has decreased considerably. When the original work was done on this subject the population growth in Adelaide during the period 1961-1966 was almost 3.25 per cent. It dropped to 1.75 per cent over the following 5 years. The average rate throughout was 2.5 per cent. The Australian population growth average during that 10-year period was 1.9 percent. 
That should be borne in mind because what subsequently has transpired is directly concerned with the problem of water supplies to that area and their quality. Adelaide is now expected to reach a population of 1.3 million in about the year 2005, not 1997, because its population growth has fallen from 3.25 per cent in the period 1961-66 to below 1.5 per cent today. The problem concerned with the use of water relates to how urgently it will be required to meet Adelaide's population growth and how urgently will be the requirement of the expenditure of funds for Monarto. It is for the reasons I have stated that I have risen tonight to point to changing circumstances which the Government would do well to assess. I congratulate the Government on this Bill. I hope that many of the statistics that are compiled will be valuable in the proper and rational planning of future growth centres and other works undertaken below the Hume Reservoir. 
-On another occasion in this House I found myself talking about the effect of quality of water supplies to areas such as South Australia. On that occasion, of course, I was unable to talk about the quantity of flow. I thought that perhaps I would spend a few minutes tonight is the matter of quantity. Historically speaking, South Australia fought many years ago a rather famous election on the matter of quantity of water flowing into the State. The issue at the time was: Does the State Government give away fighting for the Chowilla Dam, within the boundaries of South Australia, or does it accept the offer from the Federal Government of the time and agree with the obvious attitude of the other States concerned and take on Dartmouth Dam which, you will be well aware  Mr Speaker,  is under construction now. An election was called on this issue- purely and simply on this one issue- because water is so vital to the State of South Australia. A government resigned a year before its time and went to the people on this issue of water. The bait, if that is the right word, was that for the first time in many decades the quantity of water allowable to the State of South Australia under the agreement with the upstream States and the Commonwealth Government would be increased from 1,254,000 acre feet to 1,500,000 acre feet. 
That was the issue on which an entire election was fought, and I have no hesitation in bringing it to the attention of the House tonight because it was not only Adelaide that was on the end of the supply line. I can see the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  looking at me from the other side of the chamber. Towns in his area were then and are now entirely dependent on a huge outlay of money for pipelines to feed growing areas in the electorate of Grey. The pipeline was not only to supply Adelaide, it was not only to supply Grey. It was to substantiate the growth of Port Stanvac, to substantiate the growth of Redcliffs, if it ever develops, and it was to substantiate the growth of places like Monarto and other growth centres in South Australia which were 90 per cent dependent on the quantity of flow from the River Murray for the mere existence of the people. Now, that election was lost, as is now a matter of history, by the government of that time. The Premier of South Australia at that time now sits in a duller House than this, growing quite thick in the waist and generally looking like a senator. I am sure you will appreciate the point,  Mr Speaker.  It is purely a historical fact that that is so. 
Yes, he can only thrive on that. I suppose one can take the point of view as a member of this House that there he sits and stagnates, but the water issue in South Australia does not stagnate. I am not referring to anything other than stagnation,  Mr Speaker,  because it is such a vital matter. I mention that not only the establishment of future industries is dependent on the quantity of water supply now, through that system, but there is also the matter of growth centres. In relation to those growth centres, I congratulate very much the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for producing those remarkable essays some time ago that he allowed even the Opposition to read. On the last occasion on which I spoke on this matter I made the point that I did not wish to take cheap advantage of the essays he had so properly made available to people with opposing points of view in order to open up debate on the matter. But one of the facts that does stand out is, that we in this country are imbued with the fact that Geelong needs to decentralise. This comment could also apply to Wollongong, Newcastle, Brisbane, Launceston, Hobart, Adelaide or Perth. But, of course, on a national scene this is a ludicrous thesis to adopt. 
I do not know whether overseas people are right or wrong. I just point to the fact that people like Professor Alonzo have written in this field, and this is the sort of thing they believe in. From my point of view I would say that marginally I congratulate the Federal Government for taking a risk. I do not think it is the Federal Government's role to act as a funding authority to State governments and say: 'Go your own way'. That would be ludicrous. I do not think it would be right for this Federal Government to say too often without any proper work on the subject: 'We will build a regional growth centre at Albury-Wodonga, at Timbuktu or anywhere else '. I do not think that is right. But I think what is right is that this Government should acknowledge I do not know that it does acknowledge this but it is proper that it should- and take into account the fact that not all the brains, ability and capacity in these matters are situated in Canberra. I think that what we have to do now is not get carried away by blind emotion, but take your risks, if this is the course you have adopted, and learn from your mistakes as you go but try to rationalise your judgment as conditions alter. 
A little while ago I spoke on another occasion on the changing population trends affecting South Australia and particularly Adelaide. If indeed the trend of growth in my own State, and more particularly in Adelaide, approximates zero population growth then some government situated in Canberra has to take into account in a proper fashion whether such a scheme should continue or whether such huge expenditure should be deferred for a period of time. I am not in government. I am not privy to all the decisions .that are made. Sometimes I am thankful for that. But somebody has to look at this matter and decide just where taxpayers' funds should be expended in relation to regional growth centres. I hope that this Government has the intestinal fortitude to clutch hold of such a prickly old thistle if necessary and come to a proper rational judgment on these matters. 
In the remaining 2 minutes available to me I would like to talk to the House briefly on a matter in relation to which I have been trying to ask a question for some period of time now. Of course, I know very well that the Chair is not to blame for any deficiencies in that regard. I do not know whether I am getting old or whether other people in this House are getting old, but I find that when I listen to television programs these days perhaps I have the volume turned up a little higher than I once used to. If I turn the volume up a little, I must say that when those programs are interrupted by advertisements the din one suffers is beyond belief. One of the noise nuisances of this age is the decibel din that hits one's ear drums when listening to television programs. I would like the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who is at the table to take up with the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  this matter. I would be interested to know whether his hearing is affected in the same way as mine is, because I do not believe that the powers reposing by Act of Parliament in the Australian Broadcasting Control Board are being properly used. I would not mind betting that if a census were taken of the people of Australia today we would find that 50 per cent or 60 per cent of them would support me in this complaint that I lodged with the Minister tonight. 
Anyone who tries to kid me that the advertisements that interrupt worthwhile television programs are not many decibels higher in volume than is the program itself ought to have his hearing tested. Nobody could kid me that my contention is wrong. I hope that the Minister will take that small matter seriously, because I believe that a vast proportion of the people of Australia today are vastly offended by this undue noise. A hell of a lot of them turn the volume down, sit down, and then turn up the volume when the advertisement is over. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make available a comprehensive breakdown of administrative costs and other expenses incurred by the Australian Film Development Corporation in each financial year. 
In what profitable ventures has the corporation been involved. 
In these instances, what investment has the Corporation made, and what proportion is this investment to total investment from other sources. 
Will the Minister name these other sources. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Are the methods adopted to protect those who invent, and apply for patent rights over that invention, considered to be satisfactory. 
Whose responsibility is it to search patents, both in Australia and overseas, with a view to establishing sole rights to that patent. 
Does this responsibility lie with individual patent attorneys. 
Is it a fact that up to 40 per cent of all patents taken out recently will eventually be found to be invalid 
If so, can he propose a better method to protect those people who apply for patent rights, and pay many hundreds of dollars to seek sole patent rights, only then to discover that the process is inefficient enough to fail to establish sole rights in a particular field. 
I listened with a great deal of interest to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  I take a similar approach to the one he took initially in his speech, that all these problems in this legislation, as was the case in the debate in July, must be viewed against the background of the real need in the dairying industry for structural reform. Any legislation produced by the Government must keep that concept well and truly in mind. I voiced criticisms in July during the last debate on this topic. My belief is that the Government has departed from its early blythe words and good thoughts about a national approach to structural reform in the dairying industry. I for one was not pleased, during the election campaign in May, to find Australian Labor Party supporters running away from this problem and stating that they believed in a State by State approach to the dairying industry. 
Let us look at the economics of the industry. I think it is fair that these matters should be raised. There is now either a phasing out or in some cases a complete removal of the dairy subsidythe bounty on cheese, the bounty on butter, the bounty on processed milk and, probably of even greater importance the removal of the superphosphate subsidy which is due to take place at the tail end of this month. One must take these economic factors into account before one can assess whether the majority of dairy farms as they exist in this country today can be economic. I suppose one could add to that the merging problem of the increase in State Government charges for fuel and electricity. I for one on a dairy farm in South Australia will have to look very carefully at the amount of pasture I can afford to irrigate during the coming year. That is due largely to the economic policies of this Government which has forced the State governments to increase charges. 
I know of a dairy farmer near me who has 65 acres in the Meadows area who received a land tax bill last month for over $ 1 ,000. It is with that sort of background in mind that we must view Bills of this nature that seek to restructure an industry on the national level. 
The third background point I make before dealing with the actual Bill itself is that this legislation got under way in the 1 970-7 1 period under a Liberal-Country Party government. It has had a good effect. I will not repeat figures I used only a few months ago to indicate what has been spent in reconstructing marginal dairy farms but this legislation has had an impact. It had a particular impact when the market place price for meat encouraged farmers to swing from dairy cows to the production of beef. In my concluding remarks in the speech I made last July I besought the Government not to run away with the idea that any reconstruction scheme for the dairying industry was necessarily the only means of inducing people to leave that industry. I said that if economic times became more difficult they would probably try to seep back again. I fear we have reached that stage. 
No, it does not have quotas. The honourable member has asked a difficult question. In South Australia we have a milk supply scheme different from that of any other State. The honourable member may sidetrack me if I take too long in answering his question. However I have outlined the background at which we need to look. Does this Bill encourage uneconomic dairy farmers out of the industry or does it prop up those farmers who under reconstruction should have left the industry? The honourable member of Macarthur  (Mr Kerin),  who preceded me in this debate, said that we should give first and foremost to dairy farmers who are in need. That is an attractive proposition. He said we should look after such farmers, but can any honourable member tell me what the blazes is the use of trying to remove from the industry farmers who are not viable, through reconstruction measures, and at the same time trying to prop them up? There is a certain amount of economic chicanery and nonsense about this proposal. 
The honourable member for Macarthur referred also to the brutality of the 'Get big or get out' suggestion. I think one can appreciate that there are cases where that suggestion would be a bit brutal. I have outlined the background to this legislation and have mentioned changing economic circumstances. The only hope of the industry being viable with changing and increasing costs is surely for those within it to get big, and to get pretty big. I personally sold a herd of wellknown pedigreed Jersey cattle 2 months ago because 1 could not afford, while 1 was stuck in 
Canberra, to have 3 men employed full time looking after 100 milkers. I am not at all sure that the future viability of the dairying industry is not related to far bigger dairy herds than that. Of course, a dairy farm must have sufficient land to be able to cope with expansion. I suggest we should carefully consider the consequences of adopting such an emotional phrase as 'look first and foremost after those in need ' because I think there is a certain conflict of logicality in this argument which is apt to make nonsense of what the Parliament is trying to do in a Bill which, in many other ways, is worth while. 
On, I think 8 April, the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  announced that $28m would be provided as assistance for the dairying industry. It was difficult for the Minister to introduce a Bill at that time because of the then forthcoming election, but the House should recall that we last debated this matter in July. I do not know whether that Bill, which we spent some time debating, has reached the Senate. It has not been passed. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  is looking somewhat excited but I assure him that  Senator Wriedt,  in answer to a question by  Senator Rae,  as reported in Hansard, said that to date no payments have been made to dairy farmers from the assistance announced on 8 April. That question was asked on behalf of dairy farmers in Tasmania, but that was the answer given. 1 can understand the election interrupting a program between 8 April and late July but it is straining the credulity of all when no attempt has been made to put into effect that marginal dairy farm legislation. 
-That may well be a valid point. After all, there is a peculiar government in South Australia. I make the point that the Government made an announcement in April and built up the hopes of dairy farmers. It introduced a Bill in July and built up their hopes again. It seems to be rather political that dairy farmers should not have received any physical benefit from applications for assistance they may have lodged months ago. The Minister's second reading speech attempts to explain the delay and I partially accept what was said but I point out the attitude of those people who have applied for aid. In July Opposition members made several points. The first related to background economic measures or actions that I have already described. The second point concerned the need for a national government to have a national look at the problem and stop worrying about State boundaries. The third point was that in that 
Bill there was nothing to rationalise the rash of dairy factories in certain older dairying areas. At that time the Opposition said that the entire cost structure of the dairying industry was affected by having dairy factories every mile or two, as is the situation in some parts of Australia, when none of those factories was economic. The resultant increased costs are borne directly by the dairy farmers but they have a strong rub-off on consumers. 
At that time we besought the Government, when it introduced further legislation, to make provision to encourage the cutting back of the number of uneconomic dairy factories in this nation so that we could start to have some proper structural change at a level where it might have more effect than at the grass roots level. To my horror when I examined this Bill I found no such encouragement. I am glad that the Opposition proposes to move an amendment to cover this aspect. I do not know what its final wording will be but it aims to establish arrangements whereby the States or State authorities will be able to make loans to owners of dairy factories to enable the economic rationalisation of those factories. I wholeheartedly support that proposition. It is vital in any restructuring to try to solve the problem. 
I imagine that the Minister for Northern Development would probably say that as a believer in free enterprise I would encourage people to set up dairy factories wherever they wished, but I believe we have gone beyond that stage in the dairying industry. Many of these factories are co-operatives and this rather compromises a pure laissez faire attitude to the problem. Perhaps now that I come to think of it, that is why there is no such provision in this Bill. I can imagine a Cabinet meeting of present Ministers with one Minister saying 'We will take them over and amalgamate and nationalise them'; another Minister saying 'We cannot do that; they belong to the farmers', and finally Cabinet saying 'Perhaps we had better not touch it at all'. The Opposition approach is to give encouragement to rationalising this plethora of factories in some areas of Australia by making funds available to the States for that purpose. 
The honourable member is renowned- I saw it printed somewhere, I think- as being one of the major shareholders in Broken Hill Pty Co. I expect that that is about as true as the contention he made about me. If I might just continue with my comments on the Bill, I do not intend to go over all the clauses with which the Opposition is in agreement. There are many clauses, many of them in extension of the policy and the legislation we ourselves brought down. I have no complaint with the fact that the Government has succeeded in broadening this legislation. I have some little complaint based on the give-to-those-in-need attitude which I have described. I do not really see why those who have used economies in their dairy farms and have already established themselves with refrigerated vats should be disadvantaged against some lax individual who has not used economies on his farm and still needs a refrigerated vat. But that is a rather localised sociological problem, I expect, and people in any one dairy locality will look with some horror from one farm to the next in relation to it. For all I know, there might be big areas of the north coast of New South Wales of which I am not completely aware where this across the board treatment may be necessary. So I am not grinding that point unduly, except in relation to the original point I made that one has to look at the proper overall economies of the situation; that, I am in agreement with. 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  describe to the House the problem of Australian standards and a definition of what is a properly constituted refrigerated vat and what is not. I gathered from the honourable member that he is also going to add flavour to the product by moving an amendment along these lines. Of course I would support that proposition, no matter what the flavour. Furthermore, there are other aspects of the Bill, which I will not weary the House by reciting, and which have already been mentioned by 2 speakers, to which I give complete support. 
I finish on the rather tough note that the Bill carries on the thinking in round terms of the past Liberal-Country Party Government. The imagination in terms of this Bill has been left to the Opposition. I do not believe that the Government has used a lot of imagination at all and, as I have attempted to describe, it has missed out on one of the principal reasons, one of the most important reasons for structural reform in the dairy industry; I have already referred to the rationalisation of an undue number of factories. I do not think it is to the credit of the Government that it has not decided to take any line at all, let alone a tough one, on this matter. I beseech the Government to take a national approach because I do regard this Bill, as I did the last Bill, as being a sort of pettifogging bits and pieces legislation not very greatly to the Government's credit but legislation that will be easily acceptable to and admired by the dairy industry. 
-I will just take 30 seconds to say that, as the Committee will see, there are 9 definitions already. This amendment would add one more. I say with great modesty that I do not think it would do anything other than improve the Bill, taking into account the alterations that may be made to the Bill today, next week or next year. I support the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  Perhaps the 
Government might accept the simple amendment. 
^1 must say that I am disappointed in the attitude of the Minister to the last amendment we moved. It is quite apparent that, if amendments moved here are rejected, they may have a chance of being accepted elsewhere. I rather look on the Minister's tactics as being somewhat negative, taking into account the long term aim of the Bill. I have pleasure in moving on behalf of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair): 
After sub-paragraph ( 1 ) (a) (i) insert the following subparagraphs: '(ia) meeting in the case of a particular farm, the cost of the purchase and installation on the farm of a refrigerated vat for the storage of wholemilk intended for use as fluid milk for human consumption or in the manufacture of butter, cheese or other products where a refrigerated vat is already installed on a particular farm where the installed vat is inadequate for the needs of the particular farm or the installed vat does not meet the standards set down by the Standards Association of Australia for refrigerated milk vats; '(ib) amounts payable under sub-paragraph (ia) are not appropriated under section 22 but are payable only out of moneys to be appropriated by the Parliament specifically for that purpose; '. 
The reason for this amendment will be well discernible to all honourable members who have taken part in this debate. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  pointed out the problem of the standard of vat prescribed by the Standards Association of Australia. From memory the designation is ASN46. This has the effect of making illegal- that might not be too strong a word- the use of vats that do not conform to this standard. Whether it be illegal or not, there is an obvious advantage in having conformation with standards set down by the Commonwealth for dairy farms as well as other sections of the industry. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  remarked a while ago on farms that are reconstructed. I do not think it takes an awful lot of imagination for the Committee to realise that if one of the principal aims of this Bill is to reconstruct dairy farms, the hope is that there will be a higher degree of productivity. If there is a higher degree of productivity, naturally the resources of the dairy itself can be strained. Farmers may have to put in extra units and if they do they may then have to put in extra plant to operate these units. But certainly if the Government's plan as put forward in this Bill today has merit, then increased production will result. If increased production does result, then presumably a small refrigerated vat needs to be replaced by a larger, perhaps more efficient refrigerated vat. This seems perfectly logical to us, and I am sure it would seem so to those who have taken part in the debate. I feel quite certain in my own mind that it is purely an administrative oversight by the Government. 
-I thank the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  for giving me that information in relation to standards of which, frankly, I was not aware at all. I .was interested in his reply. First of all, I would like to know whether he is quite certain that, under clause 12, in dealing with uneconomic dairy propositions, a vat could be replaced by a newer or bigger vat with the help of loans made available from the State or from an authority of that State. I do not quite read that into the clause. But as long as the Minister can assure me that it is correct I am perfectly happy. 
Where I am not so perfectly happy is in relation to the State authorities reconstructing, say, two dairy farms, as set out in the Bill. I suppose that one looks on those farms as being potentially viable and economic. Are they to be disadvantaged by not being able to apply for loans for the installation of their first refrigerated vat? If they have a brine cooling device, as I had and as so many people had for many years, because they are economic farms are they to be denied these readjustment funds to put in modern equipment? I add that it might well be equipment installed for the first time to make them whole milk suppliers. They might even be using an old churn or separator and a couple of small cream cans. That is my first point. My second point is in relation to the position if they are using, say, a brine cooling device. The idea we had in moving this amendment was to provide for those farms which are economic. It may be only momentary. It may be through supplying other dairy alternatives. That is the purpose behind our attempt to try to cover that anomaly, if the Minister agrees that it exists. 
-I move: 
After clause 1 6 insert the following clause: ' 1 6a.  (  1 ) The arrangements may provide for the making of loans by the State or an authority of the State to the owners of dairy factories where those loans will be applied for the economic rationalisation of dairy factories, with the approval of the Minister. 
Amounts payable under sub-section ( I ) are not appropriated under section 22 but are payable only out of moneys to be appropriated by the Parliament specifically for that purpose.'. 
In other words, in sub-clause (1) we give the Minister complete carte blanche to decide when and where. We are hopeful that this will work. With regard to sub-clause (2) there is no question in my mind that this is a most necessary clause for the Committee to accept. I will not attempt to regurgitate a debate on the second reading of the Bill, but one of the most important factors in any structural reform of the dairy industry is to give encouragement and aid for dairy factories to amalgamate, which is not covered by this legislation, despite the remarks made by, I think, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  It must be covered if the restructuring of the dairying industry in the modern economic climate is to have any chance of success. Not only must it be covered by this sort of amendment- naturally I hope that it will be this particular one which I have moved on behalf of dairy farmers whose entire cost structure is built up by diseconomies of this nature- but, as I said before, it has -a reflection on the price which consumers are sometimes forced to pay for the produce of the dairying industry. I see this amendment as being a very vital adjunct to what is otherwise good legislation. I hope that the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  may find some generosity in his heart and agree to accept this amendment. I feel quite certain that, if he does not, it will be passed sooner or later some way or other. But it would be to the credit of the Government and of this House if the Minister accepted this amendment this afternoon. 
-I will not take a minute to finalise this matter. I find the argument advanced by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  most illogical. He talks of not broadening the Bill, yet, in his own words, clause 16(1) has broadened the Bill to the very degree that the Opposition wished to take it. He dealt with internal structural alterations in dairy factories and the funds available for that purpose. I cannot get through to him that, within that very limitation, all we seek is for a State authority or a State government to allow loans under the provisions of this Act or outside it in terms of appropriation to enable factories to receive help if they decide to get together. This is not an internal structural arrangement. I find it very difficult to understand the Minister's insistence that the Bill is limited in its field of operation, whilst denying us this amendment primarily because we wish to deal with it in the same ambit as the Minister has mentioned. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill -by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Does the Minister for Labor and Immigration remember accusing members on this side of the House of being union bashers if we dared even to question his somewhat erratic industrial policies from time to time? In view of the remarks of the Prime Minister referring to the unions screwing consumers, will he acknowledge the Prime Minister as the greatest and most unrivalled union basher? Does he agree that it is a proper procedure to bash and then to place as much distance as possible between oneself and the problem? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition should address the Chair rather than engage in these conversations. 
The second way of raising the $700m is by the issue of securities to the Reserve Bank. If it is going to be financed by way of Treasury bills from the Government to the Reserve Bank, that is exactly the same as printing money, as asking the Reserve Bank to print money. That is exactly what it is. It is a time honoured, centuries old certainty that if you ask the Reserve Bank to give you money for Treasury bills all that the Reserve Bank does is to print money. I hope that that is not the way in which it is going to be done, because it will create a very strong inflationary effect; and how big the inflationary impact will be depends on how big the deficit is, on how many banknotes have to be printed. If it is $700m it will have a very big effect. 
The third way of doing it is by doing some more switching- switching, for instance, from the other trust fund balances such as the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve balances; but that is an extraordinary way in which to do it, because that only means the Government buying its own securities. Sooner or later the Government has to get the money to buy its own securities, and inevitably it would mean Treasury bills issued to the Reserve Bank. 
It is fundamental that 2 things be done in order to get interest rates down: The first is to end the credit squeeze and the second is to tackle inflation and to bring it down so that people can invest their money and not lose money by having it invested. This Bill is a monument to the Treasurer and to the Government for political manipulation and economic inadequacy. We will support this Bill. We will support it for the simple reason that at this point of time it is necessary for the Government to be able to go ahead with its economic measures. The only way in which it can go ahead is by preparing in advance in such a way that it will not be necessary for it to bring about a monumental increase in inflation. If the Government chooses the right course, that is, to fund the advance trust fund properly, it need not add to liquidity. But if it chooses the wrong course, it will add a tremendous impact to inflation. Whether the Government will be able to make the right judgment remains to be seen. I have very serious doubts about it. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Because the States Grants (Fruit Growing Reconstruction) Bill relates fundamentally to a State grant I wish initiallyand for only a few minutes to draw the attention of the House to the parlous position of State governments through lack of State grants to aid with their revenue raising. For a start, South Australia is out of pocket by$ 13.7m. One ponders whether the sort of grant that we are considering tonight is really of the gravity to State governments of their revenue deficit. A second point I make tonight is that this Bill is purely a continuation of the 1972 legislation introduced by the Opposition when in government during that year. The tree pull scheme as it has become known was founded in difficulties two and a half years ago with the collapse of the traditional markets, such as the United Kingdom market and the European Economic Community market, which were then in a state of complete surplus in which the price had collapsed. It was also founded on the fact that pears in Victoria and apples in Tasmania both appeared to be in a state of semi-permanent surplus. It was a scheme confined to that period of time. Apart from some minor modifications which I shall mention later it now assumes the implications of a much more permanent law. 
Throughout this debate I wish to draw to the attention of the Government, if I can, matters relating to reconstruction rather than matters relating to eradication. The full implication of the tree pull scheme proved ineffectual in most mainland States. For instance, in my electorate it was looked upon fundamentally as a waste of time. Very few successful applicants took advantage of the terms of the scheme. In fact, the floods in the Victorian section of the River Murray which eliminated many acres of peaches produced the situation in South Australia which I have just described. Therefore, the potential need for tree pulling disappeared in my electorate.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a page of facts and figures. I have already shown it to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly). 
I wish to ask a question on this amendment. I understand that, as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has just said, any building within the triangle should remain in the jurisdiction of the Parliament. I understand also that the administration of the triangle, as the 
Minister said, should be in the jurisdiction of Parliament. What I am not quite clear about is whether it is envisaged in his form of words, which I could not hear perhaps as clearly as I wished, that the East Block and the West Block within the parliamentary triangle are necessarily to be abolished or whether, if they remain, they will be entirely under the jurisdiction and the administration of the Parliament or whether Treasury blocks of that nature are, as part of a department, ipso facto, under this amendment, already under the control of the Parliament. Could the Minister clear up that point? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the. National Gallery purchase the painting 'Blue Poles' as part of a definite acquisition policy and in line with a general philosophical approach. 
If so, has this policy been defined, and what is the philosophy behind it. 
If there is no policy as yet defined, when will the public have access to debate such a policy. 
If there is such a policy, why has it not been produced for general consumption and debate. 
5 ) Is it the intention of the Government for the Gallery to compete with European galleries with respect to historical paintings of great worth. 
Is it the intention of the Gallery to build up a definite contemporary Australian collection as well as an Asian collection. 
Will it aim to buy such a representative collection of the works of young Australian artists of promise, some of whom will unquestionably become the name artists of the future. 
-Order! There is no point of order. The honourable member's recourse is to raise this after the honourable member for Phillip has finished his speech. 
Everyone is restricted in the same way; everyone has to disclose the source of the funds. Is it that we on this side of the House have less to hide? Perhaps that is the truth of the matter. Perhaps it is that the guilty men want to protect their rich and powerful friends. 
A great deal has been said and proved about the activities of certain multinational corporations. Mention has been made of United Fruit in Guatamala in the 1950s, Union Miniere in Katanga in the 1960s and the ITT scandal in Chile in the 1970s where $ lm was spent, according to evidence given before the United States Congress, in order to influence an election. The evidence also shows that ITT was on both the sides during the Second World War. Are we to witness silently or to see the active intervention and interference by foreign owned mining companies in Australia later this year? Rumour has it that we will. If we are to have the privilege of their company, if we are to have the pleasure of their active intervention and interference in the Australian political scene, let us know about it. There is no reason why there should be ghostlike figures stalking across the political horizon. Let us see who they are; let us see where they are; and let us see where their money is coming from. Bribery and contribution to political funds are separated by a very thin line indeed, a very thin line. Sometimes we can see very little difference between the 2 situations. What we have got to watch is that the sordid, sorry history of bribery, corruption and intrigue which we see in these multinational corporations that I have named here, the scandalous interference in domestic political affairs, does not occur in Australia or, if it does occur, that it is out in the open for the Australian public to see. In Australia we are not arguing about a few bananas, we are arguing about thousands of millions of dollars worth of minerals, the mineral wealth of this country which certain mining organisations would not be past paying substantially to obtain. When we have members of this Parliament advocating policies which would put millions of dollars into the pockets of these rich corporations one does not have to think long or hard to know that it would be a worthwhile proposition for the corporations to contribute to the defeat of this Government. 
Limitation of expenditure is good for the democratic concept. It gives an equal opportunity to all to state their case to the Australian electorate. The risk of people being ruled by a wealthy and privileged class is diminished. What is likely, if the trend continues on its present way undisturbed, is that the Austraiian people will be ruled by well organised, well financed pressure groups. Such risks will be eliminated; the rights of Australians to express themselves freely at the ballot box, with equal knowledge of all the candidates' views, will be guaranteed by this legislation. Those who exercise authority should be clearly seen. Those who have the authority should be open to public scrutiny. They should not operate in the secrecy of the boardroom or from beyond Australia's shores. The days of the puppeteers organising political events to suit themselves are over as soon as this legislation is adopted. If the legislation is frustrated, either here or in another place, let those who frustrate it explain to the Australian electorate the reason for their activities; because the Australian people will wish to know the answer to the question: What have you got to hide?' Tell us what it is. Cleanse yourselves. Stand up and be an open book. If you do not, then accept the association of guilt which obviously must fall upon you. The slush fund concept should be destroyed. It has lived too long. In the past, election expenditure has been too high. In fact, the high expenditure is denying the ordinary citizen the right to contest an election because he cannot stand up to the onslaught of power and wealth which is organised by political pressure groups. In my view, an expenditure of $3,000 in each electorate is sufficient and ought to be sufficient. It is 6 times the amount currently allowed by law. Of course, we all know that most political campaign expenditure is wasted. 
The Opposition has so far put forward this superficial argument that is not based on any examination of the Bill but is some kind of attempt to draw red herrings across the trail, to try to disguise what this legislation is about. We have the contradiction between the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I put it to this House that this proposition is designed to safeguard democracy. It is designed to expose any corrupt practices which may exist. I see nothing wrong with that and I should be very surprised if any member of this House were engaged in that sort of activity, but it is possible for members to be caught on the leash, as it were, to become the victims of the puppeteers who will seek to influence events in Australia as it grows in natural wealth and importance. It is possible to laugh, to sneer, it is possible for unthinking people to ridicule this argument. But let me say this to them: The Australian people will not sneer, the Australian people will not ridicule because, whether you like it or not, they are worried about present events and they are concerned about the role of foreign-owned corporations in this country. The Australian people want to know the source of political funds. The Australian Government is determined that the people will know the source of political funds. Those who oppose the Bill can explain their impossible position to the electorate. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware that during 1974 the unemployment rate in Australia moved from approximately 1.2 per cent of the work force to approximately 4.5 per cent? Is the Minister aware that in our sister nation of New Zealand the unemployment rate for 1974 moved from virtually none to 0. 1 per cent of the work force? Does he blame the Australian Government for its poor record in comparison or is the New Zealand Government just better? Alternatively, does he regard this invidious comparison as all bis own work? Does he expect any cutback in the Regional Employment Development or National Employment and Training schemes as implied in the past by the Treasurer? Can he assure the House that as unemployment increases more funds will be found? 
-Order! There is too much audible conversation to allow honourable members to hear the Minister's remarks. Would conversation please cease. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="093131197502206_61_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502206_62_2.jpg"></graphic>

I will try to truncate my speech as much as possible. That will be difficult but I promised the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I would not exceed 12 minutes and that I would try to stick to 10 minutes. I start off by not repeating anything that has been said before. I acknowledge the speech of my 2 previous colleagues the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in relation to this Australia Council Bill. It was my intention to try to study some of the underlying philosophy which I think is important when we try to produce a program of acquisition. Throughout my speech I shall be thinking more of the art form of painting than of music or the other sections which are applicable to the Australia Council. 
I acknowledge the work of  Dr Jean  Battersby in relation to committees which several of us have chaired before. I point out how we value her advice as to how our Party should proceed in this matter. I do not think I am taking too much onto myself when I say that she was of great interest to those of us who worked with her over some years. I acknowledge her great work which is fulfilled tonight in the advent of this Bill. I personally accept the ramifications of it almost in their entirety. I think it is quite proper that members of Parliament, contrary to people in other fields, should allow artists in their varying forms to have a major say in the sorts of policies that are implemented and the way in which they expend Government funds which will be properly scrutinised before they are expended. In passing I acknowledge the example given by the honourable member for Bradfield in relation to the octopus. I hope that the head' never gets too powerful and that the tentacles spread and develop further and further with greater help to the various artistic sections which those tentacles touch. 
The major matter that perturbs me- I can see the quandary of the Government and of the future Australia Council- is the history of how people will identify with the art treasures of the nation in the future. I do not think it is wrong to say that historically Dickens' 'Pickwick Papers' struck a chord in the minds and in the hearts of the people of his day. In the same way one could say that Sydney Nolan struck a chord through his 'Ned Kelly' series or other series with the people of today. One can look at Nellie Melba, Joan Hammond, George Wallace, Gladys Moncrieff and even 'Mo' and see how those people identify in their own art form with the people of their day. The problem that the Australia Council will face is clearly in its purchasing policy. 
I' return to my illustration of Dickens with whose writings the masses of his day identified. A heed was felt for writings of that type and that need has carried forward through history. Should the Australia Council try to make purchases with which Australians will identify? Does the Council seek to identify that need in its purchasing policy or does it, in exercising its purchasing power, take a risk and attempt to buy a world famous art form such as 'Blue Poles' or House Under Construction' with neither of which the Australian people may ever identify? That is the quandary with which, on the one hand, those' people in positions of power in this matter- I refer to those who have been called the elite' in this field- will need to cope in due course. 
The. other argument goes this way: For years Australia has closed its eyes to any comparison involving outside art expertise. In the field of painting at any rate we have built up artificial values. The work of many of our own artists has been overrated and the monetary return that they have received for their works, meagre though it has been, has been away above the value of those works by any international standard. The problem that immediately arises is, firstly how the people of this society will identify with art purchases and, secondly, the need not to close the gates to international comparisons, for without such comparisons excellence in the art field and related fields cannot improve within this nation. 
I should like to propound further on that subject, but I had better not do so as there is another aspect of this question upon which I wish to touch. I lead up to it by saying how terribly disappointed I was about 2 events which occurred recently. The first one I will dismiss as an example of the most parochial and ridiculous thinking that one could wish to see in relation to these important matters. I refer to the artists, to use a generic term, who held a demonstration in Adelaide because the contract for work in connection with the murals for the Adelaide Festival of Arts was let to artists in New South Wales. I go no further than that. I quote that incident as an example of how terribly parochial people can become. The difficulty demonstrated by that example must be overcome in the same fashion as the limitations placed on comparisons of Australian art works by restricting those comparisons to the boundaries of this country must be ignored, if excellence in this field is to be developed. 
What concerns me more is an article which appeared in the 'Australan' of 1 1 January 1974.  Mr Mollison-  and I hope he was misquotedpointed out that he had no intention of exhibiting House Under Construction' throughout Australia because he did not wish it to become the subject of general ridicule, to concoct a phrase, in the manner that 'Blue Poles' had been in the course of its exhibition in this country. I was most disappointed to see this point of view. It causes me to ponder whether elitism in this sense- and that is the only way in which I wish to use any form of the word 'elite'- has not gone a trifle overboard. My personal feelings are that  Mr Mollison  should realise that one of the most important reasons for purchasing 'Blue Poles'- at any rate this was the reason given in this House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was so that we could use that painting as a catalyst. The mere contentions surrounding that painting was to provide a reason for people to want to go to see this, for want of a better word, curiosity. Any judgment based on the numbers of people who swarmed State art galleries to see Blue Poles' would at least partially suppose that the purpose had proved to be justified and that this painting had acted as a catalyst and encouraged more people to visit art galleries, even if only to see 'Blue Poles '. 

 Mr Mollison also launched more than a rugged attack on the Press which, he implied, was trying to play down the purpose for which many of us imagine 'Blue Poles' was bought. He felt that this matter would negate any such further purchases. I think that we should understand several points very clearly. The first is that this painting is not owned by  Mr Mollison.  It is owned by the people of Australia, and the people of Australia have a perfect right to see a painting- contentious or otherwise- that has been purchased on their behalf. I hope that he will retract the point of view that he put forward and will make quite certain that the people of 
Australia are allowed to look at 'House Under Construction'. By the way, I have not yet heard from the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  whether he brought it back with him on the aircraft from Russia. Perhaps he will have the chance to tell me about that when he replies. 
The second point is that I hope  Mr Mollison  's remarks were purely an over-response to the Press statements of the time. Let us face facts. The Press has a job to do and very frequently it reflects accurately thinking of society at large. I do not acknowledge that that means that the attitude of society at large is necessarily right but I think it is quite proper that this matter should be discussed very roundly and at different levels. I make my last point. What clearly emerges at this stage is that the Government has not yet set down a clear policy of acquisition with guidelines within which  Mr Mollison  or anybody else will be authorised in future to make purchases. Not only should the public have the right to view these paintings, but such an acquisition policy should also be available for the community to debate. Nobody knows what the guidelines are. Nobody in this country knows within what limits- price, quality or anything else- we operate, or even whether there is an acquisition policy. This is an important matter. If the Government sincerely believes in many of the remarks it made when it went to the people in 1972- such as 'we are an open government'- it will not hesitate to bring forward a clear acquisition policy for the people of Australia to debate and decide whether it is correct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What funds will be allocated to the Australian Film Development Corporation in 1 974-75. 
What funds were allocated in previous years. 
What has been the distribution of these funds in each State in each financial year. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">Does bis Department send lists of pensioners 'names, addresses and other details to other Departments. 
-Is leave granted? 
-I move: 
That  Mr Lucock,  the honourable member for Lyne, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 
It has been a very great pleasure to me to nominate  Mr Lucock  for the position of  Chairman  of Committees of this House. I think that the House would do well to remember  Mr Lucock  's seniority and his great experience. If I might comment on that, I would like to say that for 12 years he acted as the  Deputy Speaker  to 3 Speakers of this House. He is unquestionably well equipped to handle the job on the occasions when you have to be away,  Mr Speaker,  as, to use the words of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  he is the man who is most used to the position. I make the point that  Mr Lucock  is the most experienced and the most qualified member of Parliament for the position of  Chairman  of Committees. 
There are other reasons why I think  Mr Lucock  's nomination should be successful. Firstly, I think that his surname has become a byword throughout the length and breadth of this land since the advent of the broadcasting of the proceedings of the Parliament. People throughout the length and breadth of Australia know the name 'Lucock' and know that it represents honour and decency. Indeed he is a man of very great personal principle. I suspect that nobody would disagree with that observation.  His  knowledge of the Standing Orders is unquestionable. I believe him to be a man who holds the respect of all members of this House and a man who can and will, when needs be, withstand those pressures that many of us have noticed placed upon the shoulders of both the 

 Speaker and the  Chairman  of Committees in recent times. I believe that  Mr Lucock  has the courage, the knowledge, the sincerity and the love of this institution to do the job of  Chairman  of Committees very proud indeed. 

 Mr Speaker, this is the first occasion on which I have had the opportunity to acknowledge publicly your election as  Speaker  and I do so I hope with generosity. I acknowledge your great dedication to the task in the past and I acknowledge your capacity to work and your understanding of the Standing Orders of this House. But we are posed with another difficulty today in relation to the jobs of both the  Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees. I would like to remind the House of the very grave and difficult position that the  Chairman  of Committees or the  Speaker  hold in relation to the conducting of the business of this place. He has very great responsibilities indeed. The action taken today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  following a scurrilous remark by one of his senior Ministers, has brought this institution into a certain degree of disarray and I regret that that has been so. But there is a lot more to it than that because the whole principle of parliamentary democracy has been placed at risk. No more can any  Speaker  or  Chairman  of Committees of this House feel confident that when he makes a decision which may or may not suit the side in power he will not be stabbed in the back or let down. One side of this Parliament has traditionally abided by the principle of the continuity of the Chair, without which no  Speaker  can derive long term authority in order to control this House. The Government side has not, as proven by the performance of today. The Opposition parties, when in power and not, have shown that they will continue the principle of continuity of the Chair and will not let the Chair down. Because of our adherence to that principle I recommend  Mr Lucock  for the position of  Deputy Speaker.  Never again while the Government remains in power will the Opposition have complete confidence that power is not being exerted over the Chair. I trust that soon, when we are in government, that situation will not obtain. It never obtained during the 23 years of LiberalCountry Party governments to my knowledge. 
The Prime Minister has placed in jeopardy the whole question of the impartiality of the Chair by the means I have described and made your job for the future,  Mr Speaker,  most difficult. Whenever you rise, justly or not, to castigate the Opposition there will always be a degree of suspicion about whether you are being truly and utterly impartial. It is for all these reasons that I suggest to the House that  Mr Lucock  be elected to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. 

 -Mr Speaker, some time ago a stirring speech was made by a member of the present Government. He was not in government at the time. I wish, if I may, to quote a phrase or two from that speech. He said: 
It is not my custom to comment about candidates for the Speakership. That is a risky game, because one may have to work for the next 12 months or so under a man against whom he has levelled criticism. But it is a calculated risk. I do not think I have much to lose on this occasion because I got such a rough deal in the last Parliament. I could not get a rougher deal in this Parliament. I ask honourable members, particularly the new members of the Parliament, who were referred to compare the jovial dignity of  Mr Cope  with the cruel and arrogant posture of the gentleman who has been proposed from the other side. Honourable members will observe in  Mr Cope  a gentleman who has the highest regard for the Parliament and its rights as well as for the rights of honourable members who sit in the Parliament. This is the important thing. We shall have in  Mr Cope  as  Mr Sneaker  one who will not be the mere lackey of the Prime Minister, one who will not be the mere servant of some political party but one who will be the servant of the people who have  Deen  chosen by the electorate of this great Commonwealth of ours to represent it. 
It was the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who now of course is a senior member in the Government ranks. 
The date of this speech was 25 November 1969. The other gentleman referred to was  Sir William  Aston. Honourable members who served under him will be well aware, I think, that he was certainly one of the greatest Speakers that we have had in this House. 
It is not my intention tonight to do anything to denigrate in any way a person whom I have come to regard as a good friend, as many of us have good friends on the other side of the House. I refer to the former  Speaker,  the honourable member for Sydney,  Mr Cope,  for whom I have the highest admiration on personal grounds and in other ways. But I thought it was worth bringing to the attention of the House tonight the duplicity and complete insincerity of a man who could almost forecast that he was going to get into trouble as he made a speech and who comments how dangerous it is to make comments on Speakers at all. Of all things, he compared  Mr Cope  at that time with the person who had been  Mr Speaker  in the previous Parliament by describing that person as ' cruel ' and ' arrogant '.  
I do not particularly want to rehash completely what happened the other day. This is not the moment to do so. But I think it is worth placing on record that that speech was made and that, of all people, the man whom  Mr Speaker 
Cope found referring to him in slighting terms and then refusing to withdraw was the very man who made that speech. I hope that the House will take notice of the fact that perhaps some Ministers should be looked on as being chameleons. Whether senior Ministers must talk with one voice on one occasion and with another voice on another occasion I do not know, but it is worth while reminding the House that those remarks were made greatly to the credit of the Labor Party's nominee at that time, who was  Mr Cope.  Yet the same person was vastly disrespectful on another occasion. He was the catalyst which caused the upset in the Parliament the other day. This is what happened after he had made a speech of that type in 1969. 1 regret that I only walked into the House a few minutes ago and that I have not had the time as I usually do to let the Minister for Labor and Immigration know what I was going to say. I do not think, however, that there is any way in which I could have misquoted him. I have taken these few minutes of the time of the House to put those remarks on record. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. At no stage during my speech did I say or imply any of the things that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  suggested when he accused me of slighting your predecessor. On the contrary, I tried to speak in exactly the opposite way. My only intent was to slight the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  but certainly not the previous  Speaker.  I regret the sanctimonious attitude of the honourable member for Bowman to the whole business. 
-I have received advice from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that he has nominated  Mr Innes  to be a member of the Standing Committee on Road Safety to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of  Dr Klugman. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
There have been important institutional changes in the Australian Capital Territory during the period of the inquiry. Some of these changes were brought about by government. After the 1972 election a portfolio for the Australian Capital Territory was created and a new department, the Department of the Capital Territory was formed to undertake functions relating to the Australian Capital Territory previously managed by the Department ofthe Interior. The croation of new departments like the Department of Urban and Regional Development has had consequences in Australian Capital Territory government as the National Capital Development Commission now reports to that Minister rather than the Minister for the Capital Territory. There have also been many changes in the management of functions of government for the Australian Capital Territory with new departures envisaged for the management of health and education. The Advisory Council, which until September of last year was a small body consisting of persons elected by the community and nominees of departments, was replaced by a chamber of 18 members all elected on an adult franchise in September 1 974, and the new institution designated the Legislative Assembly, although it had no legislative functions, has been meeting and conducting business. It is hoped our report may assist in defining the nature of its powers and its place in Australian Capital Territory government.  
During the period encompassed by our inquiry there has continued to be rapid growth in the Australian Capital Territory. The population now exceeds 180 000 and is expected to reach 300 000 at some stage during the next decade. Honourable members will be aware of the pace of development in Canberra. During this dme, therefore, the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital' Territory has been considering the related questions of, firstly, the most appropriate form of self-government for the Australian Capital Territory and, secondly, the proportion of the costs of government of the Australian Capital Territory that should be met by the Australian Capital Territory community and the Australian government respectively. 
The inquiry began with the reference on costs as an examination of the public finances of the Australian Capital Territory. The Committee found it difficult to isolate the question of costs from the more general issues raised by selfgovernment and so it welcomed the extension of the reference to include the question of selfgovernment. It will be seen that we have recommended that self-government should be granted to the residents of the Australian Capital Territory in as wide terms as is consistent with the national interest. But we have also stressed in our report that self-government means financially responsible government so that, although the Territory should be eligible to receive grants from the Australian Government on a similar basis to those now paid by the Commonwealth to the States, the remaining costs should be met by taxes and charges raised locally. We discuss in some detail in the report the need to establish a set of public accounts for the Australian Capital Territory to replace the existing municipal and territorial accounts. This is an exercise that can only really begin once the powers of the Legislative Assembly and the range of functions to come under its control have been determined. A very important issue considered by the Committee was the basis upon which grants should be paid to a territorial government once established, by the Government of Australia. We have recommended that this question should be submitted to the Grants Commission for examination and report. 
Apart from the question of finance the two most important issues the Committee had to determine were the question of the most appropriate form of self-government and the institutional arrangements to support it and the question of functions to be placed under local control and those to remain the responsibility of the Australian Government. The Committee has taken the broad view that unless the national interest dictates that the Australian Government should retain control of a function of government, then there should be a presumption in favour of the eventual transfer of that function to local control. It was established to our satisfaction that any transfer from national to local control does not and cannot involve any final and irrevocable loss of ultimate power to the Commonwealth. Under section 122 of the Constitution, the Parliament is given legislative power in relation to Territories. The exercise of legislative power by a Legislative Assembly for the Australian Capital Territory would therefore be and remain the exercise of a delegated or subordinate power from the Australian Parliament. 
It follows from the constitutional position as we understand it that it is rather for the national Government to retain powers unto itself than to nominate a series of functions to be transferred to local control. Our approach has therefore been to recommend the powers that the Commonwealth should retain rather than the powers the local assembly should have. It is our conviction that in one area at least the Australian Government should retain full power, and that is in the area of planning development, land management and leasehold administration. We recommend the establishment of a National Capital Development Corporation to absorb the existing NCDC and those sections of the Department of the Capital Territory administering functions related to land. We are opposed to the fragmentation of this function between different authorities and consider that they should all be placed under one authority responsible to a Minister of the Australian Government. The Legislative Assembly would, however, be represented on the Board of the Development Corporation. For reasons given at length in the report, we consider that the planning and land management function is so closely tied to the concept of Canberra as the national capital and the seat of government that it must always remain under national management. 
In regard to other important functions, the responsibility elsewhere of State government, such as health and education, we see no reason why they should not pass eventually to local control. It is stressed in our report that self-government should not all come at once and that there should be a period of transition. Honourable members will realise that the Assembly and the institutions that will support it are not yet developed to the point where they can accept responsibility for all aspects that we see as eventually being placed under local control. 
In view of the range and breadth of functions which we see as ultimately becoming the responsibility of the local community and the legislative role that this will entail, the Committee considers that a parliamentary form of government is the most appropriate form of government for trie Australian Capital Territory. It is our recommendation that there should be a unicameral assembly to be called the Legislative Assembly consisting of 19 elected members who should be regarded as employed fulltime on their parliamentary duties and paid accordingly. We make no recommendations as to the level of their remuneration or other emoluments but suggest the appointment of a tribunal to consider the matter and make an initial recommendation. The system of elections recommended in the report is similar to that adopted for the recent Legislative Assembly election. We envisage that the Assembly, although it will have a delegated legislative role, will function like other parliaments in Australia and elsewhere in the world. The Government of the Territory should be formed from within the Assembly. We see this as happening in either of two ways. If there is a majority group capable of supporting a ministry in the Assembly, then a small executive could be formed from the members of the majority group accountable to the Assembly. Alternatively a committee system could operate with the  chairman  of each committee as the chief spokesman and accountable person for the particular area of government. The Committee sees the Assembly functioning on broad parliamentary lines. It would develop its own executive system, rules of procedures and practices in the light of parliamentary experience in Australia. 
There would be two methods whereby laws would be made for the A.C.T. under this proposal. The Australian Government as the paramount legislature could make laws on any matter. lt could exclude the authority of the Assembly by simply legislating on a subject whether the Assembly had legislated in that area or not. All other laws would be made by the Assembly in the form of ordinances. The ordinances of the Assembly would be subject to disallowance by the Senate or the House of Representatives but would not be subject to the veto of the Government of the day other than through its parliamentary majority. In our proposal once self government was established there would be no Ministry for or Department of the Capital Territory. Laws would be initiated by the Government of the A.C.T. which would consist of members elected to and accountable to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. The Committee considers that the proposals put forward in the report provide a workable basis for establishing self government in the A.C.T. I commend the report to the House. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? 
-I do not want to detain the House for long; but I think it is proper that, as the Government has allowed more than 60 speakers to take part in the second reading debate, most of us should let our electorates know simply the view we take. I commend the Government for allowing what is frankly a Committee Bill to proceed in the second reading stage for this length of time. I hope, as no doubt the Government hopes, that the debate will not have to be gagged. It was a pretty cohesive and simplistic Bill that came to us from the other place. I fear that by the time the Committee stage is completed we might not have as cohesive and, depending how one views it, sensible a document as came into this House. 
Whilst saying that, let me state with some regret that I will not be supporting the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I find it slightly illogical. It says: 
The House is of the opinion that the Bill should give expression to the following principles: 
Then it says that 'the family is the basic and stable unit of Australian society'. At least 90 per cent of members of this House probably would agree completely with that principle. But having stated that marriage should be permanent and secure it is then illogical to put forward the principle that marriage should be dissolved after only 2 years separation. I find this to be illogical if principles are to be taken as principles. To my regret- I say that because there is so much good in the wording of the amendment- I will not be supporting it. 
I regard the Bill primarily as being a Bill for discussion in Committee. In spite of the number of speakers who have spoken in the second reading debate, obviously the cut and thrust of debate will emerge at that stage. At that stage the House has to make up its mind precisely in what form the Bill will become law. I mention in passing a point that other speakers have already expounded that in this day and age marriage cannot be saved by legislative coercion. I believe that we have to accept our responsibility as members of Parliament. On the one hand our obvious need is to listen to community views, take note of letters and views that are addressed to us and then make up our minds where we stand. Each individual member of Parliament has to make his own judgment and vote accordingly. I think that is the proper way and the only way the Parliament can be effective, not only in relation to this issue but also the hundreds of other issues that come before it. We are judged by our performance and our performance should be dictated by our own personal judgment as far as is reasonably possible. I intend to take that course in regard to this Bill. 
As other honourable members have said, this Bill has caused more comment than most other Bills presented to the House in recent times. It has opened up areas in which people have forcibly expressed their views according to their beliefs and principles. In some cases the presentation of those views has been organised. I see little wrong with that. Many other members of Parliament, apart from myself, will have received deputations from various clergymen and their adherents. I found these deputations to be knowledgeable about the Bill. Perhaps this is contrary to the story told by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  They were knowledgeable in their understanding of the Bill and in many cases- I say this with regret- they had a better understanding of modern society and its problems than one or two of the speakers on this Bill that we have heard in the House over the last 2 months. Principally their concern has been with improper preparation for marriage and lack of seriousness about marriage before 2 young people get together. They are concerned, as I am, about clause 48 of the Bill. Although I had trouble following the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who seemed to think that the Bill contained all the elements for a playboy's dream on the one hand, and on the other hand he said that he would support the 
Bill, I find myself backing precisely what he said. Many of us on this side of the House, in an issue in which party politics does not apply, had been attracted to the view, prior to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  speaking, that there were cases where immediate application for divorce should apply. As the honourable member for Blaxland suggested, in cases of incest, the discovery of homosexuality on a honeymoon, cases of drunken beatings of children and other such matters I think it is proper that the application for divorce should be allowed immediately in those circumstances. Likewise, I would stick by the principle of a one-year waiting period prior to the granting of divorce applications by consent. I also think marginally that it is proper in cases of unilateral divorce applications that the parties should have to wait for a 2-year period. I do not think that we will be achieving much by following that latter course but it is one I intend to adopt when the amendment concerned comes before the House. 
I would like to refer briefly to 2 other matters that I do not think have been touched on yet during the course of the debate. Really, that is the only reason I am on my feet to speak in this debate this afternoon. 
Firstly, I do not approve of one amendment made in the other place to the Bill as we find it before this House. I refer to clause 41a. I will be voting according to the terms of the clause in the original Bill. I anticipate that the Government might be moving an amendment along those lines. I refer to the Senate's insistence on mentioning the establishment of State family courts. That is not a simple provision. I will go into that in more detail in the Committee stage. I am frightened that it will lead to a hotch-potch situation of joint control which will be unworkable and lacking in uniformity of approach. I see nothing but good in relation to the Government's original ideas in this matter, namely, that there should be a Federal family court established in each State or at other places considered necessary. For a variety of reasons- I will give more detail of them later- I will support that proposition. 
The other thing I would like to say, because I think it needs saying, is this: I admire the simplicity of approach by the former  Senator Murphy  to this legislation and the removal of the fault clauses. All of us have found in the past many individual instances in which the way they have operated has been quite archaic. What I am not so sure about is how this BUI can be amended satisfactorily to distinguish between different degrees of divorce. I think that this Parliament should consider that. I think that it is quite obvious to all honourable members that there is a much more valid reason for a divorce when 2 people, having brought up their children, they having left the family nest, then decide that they have struggled on for some years under difficulties and want a divorce. Let us compare that with precisely the same category of those young people who marry and after a year or so find that they are incompatible. In both cases I maintain that there should be a proper short period of time prior to a divorce being granted. I think that the House should try to distinguish between those people who have been married for 10 years and perhaps have a family of 5 children and the other cases that I have mentioned. This is a very different situation from the other 2 situations I have described. If there is any possibility- I cannot perceive any- within the framework of this Bill, short of incest cases and short of beating up of children and wives; this situation should be looked at by the House as being in a much more difficult category of divorce than the other two extremes I have already explained. 
I think that there is one ameliorating circumstance in this Bill. I regard it as making better counselling facilities available to try to help the marriage in that third category I have mentioned. In other words, so far as I can see, better counselling services are provided under this Bill for a young couple with several young children than were provided in the previous legislation. I think that governments should recognise that it is not desirable in the community of the family interests to make divorce in that case as easy as this Bill does. Yet on the other hand we have a situation in which the counselling provisions could be much more effective under this Bill. 
Those are the only 2 points I wish to make. I say once again I will support the motion that the Bill be read a second time. I look forward to dealing with this Bill in the Committee stage as soon as is reasonably possible so that we can come to grips with some of the problems that exercise my mind and the minds of other honourable members. I hope we can obtain some result for the benefit of people generally. 
I do not intend to take a great deal of time in discussing this Bill; nor do I intend, if I can help it, to repeat the various arguments that have been put forward in the course of debate in the House. Although I concede that this is a Bill that primarily concerns Queensland members of this Parliament, I think it is proper that someone from another State should rise to talk at this time. I will refer later in my remarks to the foreshadowed amendments which were suddenly foisted, if I may use that word, on us at a somewhat late stage and which will rather alter the original theme, as I understand it, or the original thrust, to use that loaded term, of some clauses in the original Bill. 
Let me commence by going over some of the problems that I have seen emerge over the years. Fifteen years ago I was a member of the South Australian Parliament. In those days we brought an excellent person from interstate to be the chief executive of the South Australian department responsible for administering Aboriginal affairs. He brought with him the concept- I ask honourable members to bear in mind that this was 15 years ago- that the South Australian Government was ruining the initiative and the individuality of the Aboriginal race by making it too easy for Aborigines to claim, for example, free tucker. I am thinking now of the outlying reserves and missions, as they were in those days. He said that this state of affairs was destroying the dignity and the individuality of the Aboriginal race in those areas. There is no question at all that in that day and age the moves that were initiated were proper. The Minister who exercised the responsibility for Aboriginal affairs in the Playford Government of the time was Glen Pearson. I felt at that time that very real progress was being made to help the Aboriginal people- I am thinking of those in the outback areas of South Australia- to find their own footing, for better or for worse, in the society in which they lived. Great advances were made in the field of child mortality and in bringing the Aborigines to missions, as they were in those days, and also to government reserves to try to give them some pride in their own endeavours and their own success. 
As a forerunner to taking over a large and good station property in the north of the State, Aborigines in those days were trained, properly I think and within a limited scope, to play their part in the shearing teams. The younger people were instructed in the use of shearing machines and the hand set and how to keep that equipment maintained, that is, how to keep it oiled and how to keep it functionable. Limited success was achieved in some areas but, by and large, this was a good move. Times changed. Rightly or wrongly- I concede that it could have been a good measure- minimum wage levels were set for Aborigines. Immediately the problem was to get Aborigines employed in those areas. By and large, the good that was done in those early days was undone. The Aborigines could not be employed as stockmen. Evidently, at that time at the level which their training had reached, according to the station people they were not worth employing as stockmen. So, from that time an element of discrimination was introduced. 
Let us accept that there is discrimination and that much of the discrimination directed against the Aboriginal race is most unfortunate. I do not blame the present Government for what is happening. In fact, I encourage the Government to do whatever it can to undo this ill that runs through some sections of the Australian society. Nevertheless, that is what occurred at that time. Aborigines suddenly discovered that where formerly they could obtain employment they now could not. The reason was that, despite the best of will in the actions of governments which led to the setting of minimum wage levels, Aborigines, according to the people who had to employ them, had been priced out of the market. Those employers reasoned at that time that perhaps one teenage person who could maintain a motor bike in running order was better value than 3 
Aboriginal stockmen doing their job on horseback. I am not blaming anybody for this state of affairs; that is the way the situation developed. 
Time has gone on. The problem now is that inflation has done nothing to help to overcome this difficulty. This is not the time for me to debate whose fault the degree of inflation is; that is for another day. The facts of life are that inflation has added tremendously to the costs that must be met by people living in outback areas. I am not thinking now of the major towns in coastal areas. In the outback this problem has been one of considerable concern. The great misfortune suffered by Aborigines has been magnified greatly by the level of inflation which has made discrimination a lot more real in some areas. I do not doubt that a majority of Aborigines desire to join in the Australian society and wish to attempt to do a good day's work so that they may become part of and not separate from the whole. But in many areas of Australia today the stage has been reached where many Aborigines are being discriminated against because they cannot obtain employment. I have already discussed one of the reasons why Aborigines are. not able to obtain employment. 
Let us look more closely at one problem which would concern my friend from Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and others from fruit growing areas more than it would the Queenslanders who have participated or are interested in this debate. Nothing drives the overworked white blocker in fruit growing areas to anything from alcohol to extreme bad humour more than going into his local town, having worked himself to the bone from 5 o'clock in the morning until dusk each day trying to get a harvest off, and finding lying around on the lawn in front of the local pub those who are unemployed. It is fair to say that many of those unemployed are of a slightly duskier colour than white. 
Here again are the elements of discrimination. They are real to those people who feel that they want to discriminate. I have tried to describe fairly, I think, the economic conditions that have brought this situation about. I think the Government has cause to consider its own attitude to the situation when Aboriginal people, as well as whites find, that it is easier to live as a group in any old shack and not work. I am not discriminating, and I hope the Minister will note that. 
-The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  would have heard a few moments ago my view in relation to the problem whether Queensland is in Australia. I was glad to hear him suggest by interjection that it is. I remind honourable members that this clause states: 
This Act binds Queensland and Australia. 
My first question to the Minister is: Under what authority does the Bill make that statement? I imagine that he will refer me back to the referendum which was passed clearly and with great support by the Australian people. But my informationnot being a Queenslander but being an Australian- is that this matter will be subject to much more debate in forums other than this one. So, that is not really my problem with the Government in relation to this clause. Time and other forums will tell whether clause 4 is correct. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, my problem here, which I hope you will understand, involves both clause 4 and clause 5. Therefore my next remarks will impinge on clause 5 also. My problem is this: My understanding is that the Queensland Government or other people have been to the leaders on various reserves in that State and have asked the leaders whether they wish to seek selfdetermination under the guise of control of the areas of land over which they currently exercise control. Using the Minister's words, which I throw back at him, they have decided that they want self-determination at this level, which in this case is at reserve level. It seems to me that some of the Minister's words are a little hollow when on the one hand he says that he wants Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders to seek self-determination, to seek initiative, to seek the running of their own affairs and, on the other hand, on a combination of clauses 4 and 5, he seeks to do precisely the opposite. This is the reason why we members of the Opposition, particularly in relation to clause 5, do not see an awful lot of sense in what the Minister is trying to tell us. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Is the Government satisfied that payments made by the Australian Film Development Corporation are in the taxpayers' interests and the interests of the Australian film industry. 
-Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="094131197504153_56_0.jpg"></graphic>

I wish to refer briefly tonight to a matter that has been of some concern to me for some little time; that is, the sound level of commercial advertisements on television. I spoke about this matter on 26 November of last year in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House. I believe, although I have not seen it, that one newspaper in one capital city of Australia devoted one-eighth of an inch then to the topic. As a result of that report I have received more than 30 letters. So I imagine that my complaint has in fact struck a chord with the community. Following that I wrote to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I did attempt to let his representative in this House know that I was going to talk on this subject tonight, but I believe he is unavailable. The Minister for the Media replied to my letter pointing out that he agreed with my suggestion that the matter should be referred to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I waited for some time for the answer in substance to come through from the Broadcasting Control Board to the Minister for the Media. It came through a little while ago. I will refer to that letter in a minute. But I must say that I am unhappy about the reply at this point in time. I will mention the reasons for that in a little while. 
I think that the issues involved are quite plainly these: How many viewers, when watching an otherwise quiet and perhaps sedate program, such as a play or something like that, find that every now and again they have to get to their feet, go to their television set and turn down the volume because of the insufferable decibel din that intrudes into their ear drums, then go back to their seat and wait until the advertisement is over before returning to the television set and turning up the volume so that they can go on listening to the play or whatever it is? This situation should be a very simple matter to regulate. I hope that the Broadcasting Control Board will take some notice of my complaints in relation to this matter. I have noted out of interest that there is quite a variation in the situation from one area to another. For instance, one does not notice the difference in volume in Canberra that one does in, for instance, my home State of South Australia. Other honourable members also might be aware of the variation in volume from one area to, say, Canberra, which is where they also spend part of their time. 
There are 2 aspects to the matter as I see it. Firstly, I think that the commercial channels themselves could do well to realise that there are many television viewers who are being virtually driven to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's channels to escape the dreadful din caused by these advertisements. Some of the advertisements themselves are excellent and some are very amusing, and I do not think very many members of the viewing public would take such a poor view of the advertisements themselves that they would for that reason turn to an ABC program. But I do think that a great many people change away from commercial stations for the reasons I have just given. The noise problem is unquestionably one of the curses of our time, and I repeat that this dreadful decibel din that assaults the eardrums on some occasions is quite insufferable. 
The second aspect of the problem is this: If the commercial stations cannot regulate this small matter themselves, and if the recording companies have no intention of regulating the volume as they concoct the advertisements, and if the advertising companies themselves are stupidly unconcerned about this problem, then somebody has to seek to regulate it for the sake of the convenience of the viewing public. I think it is patently clear that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board does have powers to do this. In the letter I have received from the Minister on 1 February, he reports from the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, and he says: 
The Authority responsible for the technical standards of television stations has informed me that the apparent varying levels of loudness between advertising matter and program matter is a particularly difficult problem. 
I could agree with that. The letter continues: 
Although the normal technical facilities installed at the stations ensure the proper control of volume, the measurements obtained by such facilities do not always correspond with the subjective loudnesses heard by the human ear. 
I can assure him that there are more than just I who think this is more than just an objective judgment. In fact, it is a hell of a din that takes a lot of stomaching, particularly if the film being viewed happens to be perhaps a bit old and the quality a bit low. The letter continues: 
Devices have been developed on a limited scale overseas for the automatic control of loudness, but at this stage the Board is not satisfied that such devices represent the answer to the problem, which exists all over the world. 
I would say that it is not so bad in Canberra. The letter continues: 
The  Chairman  has indicated that the Board appreciates that it does seem that the sound component of some advertisements is processed to make them loud. 
I could give him another clue. I know of quite a lot of people who turn the switch up when the advertisements come on, for the very good reason of giving good customers the chance to get maximum volume, so there is not particular news about that. The letter continues: 
In this connection, the Board has no power to restrain recording companies - 
That is not the stations - from processing their recordings and, indeed, some degree of processing quite apart from the control of volume is involved in the making of any recording. The problem lies in the interrelationship of hard-sell sounds, comprising some advertisements as opposed to the more normal range of sounds in general program matter. 
All I think that the viewing public wants, quite frankly, is a description of that last phrase- 'the more normal range of sounds' as they hear them in the general program matter. That is all I want to refer to tonight. I will make sure that the Minister is made aware of these later remarks, but I stress the point that unquestionably at present the whole of this high decibel volume noise on commercial advertisements is an insufferable burden on a high proportion of the viewing public. 
I congratulate the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  on the remarks which he made. They were very valid and worth being remembered by all members of this House. Because it is appropriate in this context, I initially point out that I have just had a look at a speech I made on this subject in 1968. 1 note that in that speech I complained bitterly that there had been a 2 per cent increase in primary industry costs over the 10-year period immediately prior to 1968. I notice that I complained bitterly that there had been a 3 per cent increase in costs over the 5 years before 1968. I notice that I complained even more bitterly that there had been an even higher increase in costs over the last two to three years of that 10-year term. We were complaining then that a cost-price squeeze was affecting all war service land settlers. We were complaining bitterly that the increase in the cost of inputs was making it extraordinarily difficult for smaller soldier settler farms to persist. I relate those comments to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
It is now a matter of nobody knows what. Inflation is running at the rate of 16 per cent, with the likelihood of its being over 20 per cent within the next 12 months. How soldier farmers are meant to persist in these circumstances I do not know. Recently I had discussions with officers concerned with the rural reconstruction side of the Lands Department in South Australia. Every bit of budgeting they do in terms of rural reconstruction is thwarted because it is out of date as soon as they produce figures on which to base a case for rural reconstruction. I am reminded, because I am fairly heated at this stage, that not long ago the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party introduced a Bill to retain superphosphate subsidies. What happened? The Government voted against making any move to continue superphosphate subsidies until such time as the Industries Assistance Commission could have a rational look at what help was needed in this area. I just point out again that honourable members on the Government side representing rural areas, including honourable members from Tasmania, all voted against that private member's Bill. I think that people on the land need to be reminded of the lack of sympathy that is shown in this place by the Government in relation to small farmers in general. 
The debate on this legislation this year is rather airy-fairy compared with the debates in previous years. I say that because there are many question marks in relation to where this Government thinks it is going next. Nobody knows. In my own area of Loxton, which is mentioned specifically in the areas for which funds are being made available to South Australia, the Industries Assistance Commission recently took evidence on rural reconstruction. Nobody in the war service land settlement area of Loxton, Loveday and elsewhere knows precisely what will happen. They all turned up at the Commission's hearing and put their views. They all pointed out that a whole series of taxation measures relating to the wine and brandy industry is threatening their livelihood. They all gave views on the size that should apply to farms in the area. Frankly, at this stage they cannot see that the present Government in 2 1/2 years of operation has done one thing to help them. 
In order to show that I am not being completely biased in making these remarks, let us look at some things with which I was personally involved under another government prior to December 1972. 1 refer to the fact that we were able to get acceptance of the scheme for favourable rates of interest on loans for drainage. Let us bear in mind that valuations of war service land settlement blocks in many cases- I think in most cases- are based on the land being fully and effectively drained. Nevertheless, we were able to clarify the position in areas such as Loxton. We were able to do this for the growers who were putting forward schemes at the time. At a meeting between the current Leader of the Australian Country Party, if my memory serves me rightly, when he was Minister for Primary Industry, and the relevant State Minister- they are pretty hard to box together, both being busy men- we were able to bring in budgetary control for certain settlers who needed it in areas where they were in grave difficulties. In the Loxton area today 16 settlers continue under budgetary controltwo of them at their own request. On another occasion we were able to get special loan provisions through to cope with salinity in the water in the area. At that time overhead sprinkler systems were burning foliage due to the high degree of salinity. We made that breakthrough at that time, and loans at cheap rates of interest were made to the settlers to update their irrigation systems and install under-tree sprinkler irrigation instead of overhead sprinklers. We had partial success on appeals against valuations. All these things occurred in the late 1 960s. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing some of the ramifications of the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill which deals with the provision of funds for borrowing purposes to the 3 States of South 
Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The House will remember that the other 3 States, for want of a better phrase, went solo on the scheme .immediately after World War II. The 3 agent States that I have mentioned have a conglomerate arrangement with the Federal Government. The purpose of the legislation, therefore, is confined purely to the provision of loan funds for war service land settlement settlers from World War II in the States that I mentioned. The loans are to provide working capital, stock, replacement plant and equipment as part of the normal operation of soldier settlement blocks. In addition, a small amount is made available for drainage works for soldier settlers in the Loxton area of my electorate in South Australia. 
It would be wrong if the House were to run away with the idea that this is an annual or biannual funding to the 3 States I mentioned made at the taxpayers expense. Second reading speeches made in regard to this type of legislation have never specifically stated that this was the case and this has been the situation in my time in the House. The point should be made that the repayment of capital and interest from these loan funds is made, as I understand it, into Consolidated Revenue. That is why it looks to honourable members now and again that direct grants are being made. But second reading speeches never seem to make plain the fact that this money is repaid. 
I had dealt very briefly with some of the breakthroughs that had been made from, say, the mid-1960s onwards prior to 1972 by one or two of us on the then Government side to try to ease the problem of growers in the 3 smaller States. I listed a whole series of breakthroughs that personally I look back on with a deal of pride. I am now in Opposition and I can make suggestions. What the soldier settlers want is to feel that the present Government takes more interest in the problems that evolve, problems which are still very real. 
At least once, and possibly more than once, the Labor Party when in Opposition put forward an amendment to legislation during the annual or biannual debate on this matter. I will not debate this point at length because I gather my friend the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  will take it up later. The amendment to which I have referred stated: 
That the House is of the opinion that a select committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement scheme. 
Leaving aside the question whether future land settlement schemes are desirable- certainly one would hope that the reason for the scheme we are now discussing has disappeared- the point is that the Opposition at the time, now the Government, proceeded to peddle the amendment which I have just read to the House. Many of us on this side of the House wait anxiously, as do members of our electorates, to see what the Government now intends to do in this regard. The Government has had at least 3Vi years but as far as I can see it has displayed no great interest. My electors in war service settlement areas primarily based on horticulture who are having to put up with the cost price squeeze can see no interest by the Government. 
I have mentioned that in a speech in 1968 I made on behalf of soldier settlers I complained bitterly at the cost price squeeze they were enduring. I pointed to the horror with which they had viewed cost increases of 2 per cent in the 10-year period prior to that. I pointed to the horror with which they had viewed cost increases of 3 per cent over the 5-year period immediately prior to that, and the cost increases over the 3 years immediately prior to that period which bordered on  4'A  per cent. How much greater is the problem that they have to endure now? These people- we should bear in mind that we try to help with specific treatment because they did fight for their country over a long period during the Second World War- are experiencing cost increases in excess of 20 per cent on most inputs such as superphosphate, spray materials and trellising wire and so on. The end price of many of the productive items they grow, items such as citrus for the New Zealand and Hong Kong markets, apples for the United Kingdom and grapes for the wine industry with an export ingredient, is dictated by the markets of the world. They have to accept the situation which is causing them grave discomfort at present, a situation in which the prices for commodities on export are not moving as high as are input prices and costs. I do not know how they will be able to exist. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party pointed in his speech to the total rural problem in relation to this. I will not go that far. I will concentrate on war service land settlement farmers because they are people who have not, as a rule, inherited properties. They are people who have not got even medium sized blocks. They are people who are on small areas of land. They are small farmers whose problems deserve some rethinking. 
We have heard discussion from the Government ranks on the Green Paper on Agriculture. However, we have seen no action on that Paper. 
We have heard blythe words in answer to questions, but we have seen no statement on how the Government intends to deal with the cost price squeeze that is affecting these small blockers. I mentioned a little while ago the fact that many war service settlers are harnessed to a high ingredient of citrus production. Last year we saw the pitiful spectacle, if that is the right phrase, of our traditional No. 1 export market to New Zealand falling by the board because of a combination of circumstances, many of which involved the trade union movement in New Zealand, both wharf and maritime. Further, we saw a situation in which the export of the seasonal crop of navel oranges to New Zealand was thwarted by our own unions. This was to be a trial shipment. The shipment of the whole annual crop depended on the success of this trial but that success was not forthcoming. 
I became so frustrated in relation to this matter that I finally wrote to the Prime Minister of New Zealand. I must say first that I believe that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did what he could. I certainly gave him the full file on the subject. Also, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  as far as I know, did what he could. Last week I received a reply from the Prime Minister of New Zealand. He has been extremely helpful in relation to this traditional shipment of navel oranges, much of which comes from my electorate. At this early stage it looks as though the shipping problem will be solved. No doubt this will be due to the stirring that has gone on in high places in New Zealand. I am most grateful and I express my thanks to the Prime Minister of New Zealand for the consideration that he showed to me. Frankly, this situation should not have to apply. The honourable member for Angas, as a mere back bencher of relative unimportance in this Parliament, should not have to write to the Prime Minister of another country. I always thought that this was what Ministers were for, and that they had a better connection and a better capacity for interplay and discussion on industry problems. Frankly, to my regret, I cannot say that this was so in this instance. 
Those are 2 matters that affect a great number of the 260 blockers in the Loxton area of my electorate. The Opposition would never dream of opposing this Bill; in fact, we support it. 
Before I sit down let me briefly run through one or two other matters that I think the Government should interest itself in. If the Minister does not visit the area, at least he should correspond with some of the organisations in these war service land settlement areas. There is still a big problem surrounding the revaluation of properties. I will leave my comments on that matter there. There is still a need for financial adjustment to be made to some grower's debts. The statistics in regard to this can come through the statistics gained from growers under budgetary control whom I mentioned prior to the suspension of the sitting. There is still the problem that I imagine the Industries Assistance Commission has looked at and will eventually report on, that is, the size of these small blocks which are mainly of a horticultural base. 
I will conclude my remarks by saying this: No matter what rural reconstruction is achieved in the future by the Industries Assistance Commission or by mechanisms such as the tree pull schemes and other concoctions, I hope that the Government remembers that it is very beneficial to the war service land settlement growers that they should be retained in the same category financially and in terms of their current contracts. If the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who is at the table, intends to reply later I would like to have his assurance that war service land settlement schemes, after any reconstruction that may occur, would still provide the same facilities for loan funds and would still attract the same care from governments that they enjoy at the present time. I think that anything less than this would be a small measure of gratitude to extend to settlers working under the scheme. I think that honourable members on this side of the House at any rate would express their gratitude in concrete forms by supporting the sorts of propositions I have put forward. 
-Before things get out of hand, I suggest that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro address his remarks to the Chair and that honourable members who are still to speak in the debate save their comments for later on. 
When we look at another phenomenon that has developed we find that the people in New South Wales are now starting to criticise us for not giving enough money to schools. This is incredible. Archbishop Cahill quite correctly pointed out that the Catholic schools in the Canberra diocese are suffering from a lack of funds. He said that they are experiencing extreme difficulties in financing teaching and other services in the schools. I agree with him 100 per cent in this respect. But the situation would have been very grave if the Opposition had still been in office. The facts are that today this Government finds 44.4 per cent of all funds used by Catholic schools in this area. In the last years of the previous Government the figure was 38 per cent. It is interesting to note that during that time the New South Wales contribution has fallen from 32 per cent to 26 per cent. Those schools would be in a difficult position if it had not been for the contribution made by this Government. Do we cut back this money? Does the Opposition want us to cut back this sort of assistance to Catholic schools? Sooner or later the Opposition will have to put its position on the line and tell us where the cuts are to take place. 
It is worth pondering, too, in regard to the Liberal and Country Parties' attitude towards the $240m that was given to the State Premiers in February this year. This money was provided on the basis that it would be used by the States to maintain employment. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his second reading speech on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1974-75 said: 
These funds will have a substantial effect in enabling the States to retain employees whose jobs would otherwise nave been at risk and enabling them to take on additional employees. 
The State of New South Wales received $76.6m. The Shire Council at Crookwell has had to retrench 3 people. When it approached the State for some of this money which was given in February it was told by the State Government that none would be available. Just what is going on? The money is going to the State. An additional amount of $240m went in February. Still the New South Wales State Government claims that it has no funds to provide to local government authorities with assistance for employment. The very spirit of that agreement has been breached. Yet, the Opposition in this Parliament, which is of the same political colour as the New South Wales State Government, is screaming presumably because we are paying the States too much money. 
I think that the people in the agricultural sector should have a careful look at just where the funds are going. We find that approximately 22 per cent of the present deficit is accounted for by direct grants to agricultural and other industries. As I mentioned before, well over half of the deficit is accounted for by grants to be used in the field of housing and grants to the States. If people in the agricultural sector support the Opposition 's position in regard to reductions in expenditure they should just ponder on the fact that $380m this year went to wool, $30m to rural reconstruction, $46m to the fertiliser bounty, $20m to the Commonwealth Bank for rural lending, $ 1 8m for irrigation and $ 1 2m to dairy farming reconstruction. Where will the cut take place? Under which item on that list will the cut take place? We need to be consistent. The Opposition needs to realise that the 2-way bet will not work so far as the electorate is concerned. Sooner or later sections of the electorate who are influenced by these claims will get around to examining in detail where the cuts might take place. They will need to see a consistency in the Opposition's attack on the present Government before they will be impressed enough to take the dreadful step and vote the Opposition into office. 
The Leader of the Opposition made an interesting point when he supported the proposition that the Australian Wool Corporation should have a reserve price of 300c a kilogram in the market. It is interesting to speculate what would have happened if we had had a reserve price of 300c a kilogram in the market. He claimed, and he may be right, that the Corporation would not have to purchase any more wool than it has already purchased. If we accept that proposition the increase in the deficit would be of the order of $ 80m to $ 100m. If the Leader of the Opposition supports the general commitment to the restoration of the superphosphate bountyalthough he may have made a comment on this subject I have not seen it- the deficit would have been increased by another $200m, because that is what it would have cost this year. The man who wants the Government to cut expenditure wants another $300m to be spent. 
The electorate will not be impressed by the inconsistencies that run through the Opposition's case. When we look more carefully at the present Appropriation Bill we realise that not one member of the Opposition has told us whether he wants to reduce expenditure in the field of defence which is an item which has been mentioned in this legislation. We have not been told whether members of the Opposition want expenditure reduced in payments to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, independent schools in the Territories- these include Archbishop Cahill's schools which I have already mentioned- adult secondary education assistance, assisted migration, child migration education, health insurance, victims of cyclone Tracy and handicapped children. Where would the Opposition make its cuts in relation to these items? Can it name one, two or three items contained in this legislation on which it would cut expenditure? Until the Opposition does state where it wants cuts in expenditure, how on earth can the electorate regard it as a credible alternative government? 
At present we have a serious inflationary problem in this country which stems back to 1 97 1 and 1972 when over $4 billion flowed into this country. Today we have an internal deficit of $ 1 ,700m. If in fact $ 1,700m is a dangerous inflationary factor, how much more serious was the $4 billion that the Opposition engineered in 1971-72? We should consider the cost of that amount of $4 billion which was not printed money but was obtained by selling off Australian assets. This $4 billion worth of Australian assets was sold off in order to get that amount of capital into the country. We put it to the electorate: Can people have any doubt at all which choice they would make- $ 1,700m in printed money or $4 billion acquired by the selling off of Australian assets to overseas interests? Which formula would they choose? Which formula is in the long term interests of this country? That is the proposition that emerges when we look objectively at the position we are now considering. It is incredible that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  should stand in this place to defend the actions of his Government to which I have just referred and attack the actions of this Government. I repeat: Which proposition would the electorate choose: Selling $4 billion of Australian assets or printing $ 1,700m in order to make sure that the economy is maintained at a reasonably productive level in order to ensure that the facilities so long denied education, child welfare- one can go on- are supplied to the community? We should ensure that people are able to maintain their self respect by being able to work. There is no doubt in my mind what the electorate would choose if this proposition were put to them. 
-Order! The honourable member knows better than to mention the Minister by his Christian name. 
It is not necessary for me to repeat the history of the previous Inter-State Commission and the constitutional basis of it. The present legislation has been amply spelt out and the path has been well trodden by previous speakers, but the point needs emphasising again and again that this Bill encompasses far wider aspects than mere transport. It is the structuring of an all powerful body which can override decisions of other statutory bodies without reference to the Minister or to the Parliament itself. This is the point of the debate- the overriding of the seat of responsibility by an all powerful commission whose area of responsibility is uncharted, uncontrolled and unchallengeable. This is a dangerous precedent to establish and we are not prepared to give this Bill, in its present form, our imprimatur. That is meant to be not an inflammatory expression but our unbridled and unaffected determination to see that right is done, come what may. As an Opposition we will not be recreant to the trust that has been placed in us; we will wear proudly the mantle of protection of people 's rights. 
An example of how an industry can be sabotaged can be gained by giving practical examples. The Australian Wheat Board is a statutory authority which gains its legislative teeth from complementary and supplementary legislation by the State and Commonwealth Governments. The purpose for which it was established and for which it has had a continuing charter for many years was to bring an organised approach to the marketing, supply and handling of the Australian wheat crop whilst protecting the rights of the Australian consuming public. It has prospered because it has been firmly anchored to the base of industry control and private enterprise. It has been uniquely successful because the men who have controlled it over the years have been vitally interested in its success because they were the real owners, on behalf of the Australian farmers, of the product. Yet this legend of success can be interfered with by this Commission on the basis of trade and commerce- supreme power in the absolute sense. This is what we are opposed to. There has to be some shackling of control as advanced by the Australian Labor Party for otherwise the reins will be snapped from the hands of those who have the constitutional responsibility of holding them- the Parliament. 
Much discussion has centred recently on the need to improve Commonwealth-State relations. Yet in one fell swoop the relations that have been built up by the hospitality of the non-Labor State Premiers have been destroyed because the Government did not see fit to consult the States in the matter before framing the legislation. True it is that the Government let fall a few statements here and there, but it did not have meaningful consultation with the States. I would have thought that a Bill bearing the name of 'InterState Commission Bill', should have had as its basis consultation with the States. 
It has concerned me somewhat to find that in one area no mention is made of the item which was included in section 17 of the 1912 Act dealt with investigations of river questions. One would have thought that in a country which has a vast area of dry land and insufficient rainfall, the matter of utilising water which is now aimlessly and wastefully flowing to the sea, and bringing it to the use of the vast inland areas in the States should at least have found a place in the Bill. I want to conclude on this note. The exclusion of rivers and water usage surely indicates once again the complete and utter neglect of inland Australia by the centralised octopus in Canberra. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has he been struck by the responsible and determined effort that is to be made in the United Kingdom to control the high inflation rate? Does he perceive a distinction between his replies to questions recently and the high priority given to fighting inflation in the United Kingdom? Can he explain why a socialist treasurer in the United Kingdom resorts to traditional means of fighting inflation in contradistinction to his own nebulous approach? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 
Companies and government departments mainly in South Australia which have given time off with pay to attend trade 'union education courses: 
Advertiser Newspaper Ltd 
The News Ltd 
Cruickshanks Pty Ltd 
Government Printing Department 
South Australian College of External Studies 
S. Wigg and Son Pty Ltd State Library 
The Griffin Press 
National Paper Vuepak Pty Ltd 
Messenger Press Pty Ltd 
Torrens College of Advanced Education 
A.C.I. Fibre Packages Co. 
United Packages (S.A.) Pty Ltd (Berri) 
J. Curran (Printers) Allen Press Pty Ltd Gillingham Printers Pty Ltd W. R. Grace Australia Ltd Graphic Services Pty Ltd Lutheran Publishing House Mitchell Press Pty Ltd Simpson-Pope Ltd 
South Australian Paper and Bay Co. Ltd Stock Journal Publishers Pty Ltd Thornquest Press Pty Ltd 
J. WeatherallPtyLtd Poly Products Co. Pty Ltd Tarman V.E.B. Industries Correspondence Schools Highways Department Public Buildings Department Para Hills High School 
South Australian Government Tourist Bureau Bennet and Fisher Ltd Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Ltd Australian Wool Testing Authority Commonwealth Railways (Port Augusta) Alcoa Pty Ltd 
P. Refinery (W.A.) Mount Newman Goldsworthy Cliff's Robe River Vickers Hoskins Freightbases Pty Ltd Seatainers Terminal Ltd Associated Co-Op Wholesalers Ltd William Adams Engineering Ltd Elders Metals Ltd 
Southern Farmers Co-op Ltd Lloyd Aust. Pty Ltd Reid Bros Ltd Furness Ltd Malleys Ltd 
Ford Motors Co. of Aust. Ltd Chrysler Australia Ltd 
M.H. General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd International Harvester Co. of Aust. Pty Ltd Dalgety Australia Ltd 
Wooldumpers (S.A.) Ltd Hammersley Iron Ore Pty Ltd Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd 
Turners Pry Ltd Butchers &amp; Frozen Foods Brush Ltd 
W. Robinson and Co. Pry Ltd Malco Industries Ltd Ron Cobby, Tankmaker &amp; Hardware Steward Plastics Pty Ltd Commonwealth Public Sevice ( W.A.) Western Australia State Public Service 
-The Opposition welcomes the introduction of these 2 Bills. The Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill is designed to seek approval of the House for the conversion to metric measure of the maximum permissible rates of charge on export dried fruits. At a superficial glance, this is a very simple matter. In his second reading speech the Minister states that numerous Australian industries have already converted to metric measurement, and many others are well advanced in that program of conversion. In fact, the dried vine fruits industry converted to metric measurement with the commencement of the present season on 1 March. Therefore, the industry has recommended to the Government the changes that are now put into effect by this Bill. The second variation proposed in this Bill is that the maximum rate of charge that may be applied will be altered. I will not refer to the fractions that the Minister has already mentioned in his speech as being part of the metric conversion. The Minister then said that this proposal was simply a substitution of the nearest rational metric equivalent of the previous rate, although it incidentally resulted in an increase of 5.8 per cent in the maximum rate of charge. I do not object to that proposal. I am quite sure the Opposition does not object to it but, as I hope to explain in a little while, the change has certain implications in relation to the costs of the end product and the return to the producers. 
The Dried Fruits Levy Bill 1975, which is the second of the 2 Bills we are considering, also aims to convert to metric measurement the maximum permissible rates of levy on dried fruits received at packing houses. As he pointed out in relation to the other Bill, in his second reading speech on this Bill the Minister says that the industry recommends, and the Government favours, the type of Bill that is now before the House. The first amendment simply proposes to substitute the metric unit, the tonne, for the imperial unit, the ton, on which the levies are based. A second proposed amendment provides that the maximum rate of levy which may be applied will be altered from $1 per ton to $1 per tonne, and so on, throughout the rest of the legislation as amended by this Bill. 
In this case again, it is simply a substitution of the nearest rational metric equivalents of the previous rates, and incidentally it results in an increase of 1.6 per cent in the maximum rates of levy. The first thing that I had better explain in tying up my remarks to the two points to which I have referred in the case of each Bill is that the changes have a direct relationship with the economics of the industry. I do not intend to belabour this point more than is necessary. In a few minutes, I hope to get leave to table a chart showing the volume of production in this industry in this country, as against price increases due to a world shortage of dried vine fruit products. 
When I do that, the first thing that will be discernible to honourable members in relation to this matter is that, in a situation of low supply that is due primarily to frosts in California and one or two other reasons, there are many growers in Australia today in all States who do not see an awful lot of sense in the exercise of raising, by way of levies within the industry, funds for either promotion to be done by the Australian Dried Fruits Association or for research to be carried out as a result of the implications of the 2 Bills before the House. This is a matter of some concern to the growers. I hope I have established with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the point of connection between the 2 Bills before the House and my remarks in this respect. I repeat that there are very many growers of dried vine fruits in Australia who cannot see the sense of obtaining promotion funds or of imposing promotion levies and research levies in the current situation of a short supply on the Australian market, a short supply on the export markets of the world and high prices and when in effect the industry does not have- at this point in time at any rate- the volume necessary to supply either of those 2 markets. 
Having made that point straight away,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope that I will be able to tie in my remarks directly with the provisions of these 2 Bills. If the economics of the industry, which I feel I have directly connected with the provisions of these 2 Bills, are to be applied the neatest way in which I can get to the core of the problem without wasting the time of this House is to seek to have incorporated in Hansard many of the historical and statistical facts in relation to the stabilisation schemes that have operated for the benefit of the dried vine fruits industry over a period of years. There have been 2 separate dried vine fruits stabilisation schemes. Between them there was a gap of 2 years when the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme did not apply as a result of a direct vote of the growers. I am not quite sure how much of the documentation in front of me I have shown to the Minister, but I have certainly shown him 2 tables provided by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The first table deals with world production and Australian production between 1969 and 1973. The second table has been taken from another paper produced for me by the Parliamentary Library and concerns a summary of the operations of the 1964-68 stabilisation scheme. It shows the effect of a stabilisation scheme on an industry such as this one. The third table I wish to have incorporated is a summary of the operations of the 1971-75 stabilisation scheme. 
Although the matter that the honourable member is mentioning is of very great interest and importance to the industry, the Bills themselves deal mainly with conversion to the metric system and the making of arrangements to cover that conversion. The legislation does not provide for a general debate on the industry as such. If the honourable member were to read the second reading speeches of the Minister I think he would note that they are practically confined to conversion to the metric system. 
-With the greatest deference  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I spent some minutes in the initial stages of my speech quoting from the second reading speeches of the Minister on these Bills in order to establish the fact that the Bills provide for a consequential increase in the levies imposed on the producers. That will have an effect upon the incomes of the producers. The incomes of producers is directly involved in the operations of the stabilisation schemes over two 5-year periods. I am sure that a look at Hansard will show you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  precisely how I have tied in my remarks. 
-The honourable member for Petrie might address his remarks through the Chair. 
-Before I speak about the matter I wish to raise this evening I would Uke to congratulate the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  for bringing to the attention of honourable members the dreadful business of the closing down of polling booths in country areas. 
I will get to you in a minute. I wish to refer to the closing down of polling booths in outback areas which are out of touch and have no possible alternative voting centre. If that principle is not bad enough, I ask honourable members to consider this: One centre, not in my electorate, due to be closed, is 234 miles away from the nearest polling booth. How on earth are people expected to vote? 
-There are more than fifty, which is the cut-off mark. Whether this is a political ploy of the Government to stop the right of people in outback areas exercising their vote is a matter of extreme doubt in my mind. If that is not SillY enough, in my electorate the other day I was informed of a polling booth which is to be closed. You will never guess what particular polling booth the Government decided to close,  Mr Speaker.  I can only think that the Government has advance information which I do not have and which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  probably does not have. In fact, I suggest that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  get together with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and inform him of his action. Believe it or not,  Mr Speaker,  the Minister for Services and Property has decided to close down the polling booth at Monarto. I do not know whether Albury-Wodonga is to be treated in the same fashion. That is how much faith that Minister has in the future regional growth centre at Monarto in South Australia. The Government has decided to close down this polling centre. I suppose that this demonstrates the complete incapacity of the Government to talk with a uniform voice on anything. I wish to refer to the wine industry later. 
If the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  were in the country at the same time when the Parliament is not sitting we would not hear the muddled statements that we do. Before I proceed any further I should like to refer to the remarks made by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  The honourable member for Hunter should wake up, as some other Government supporters have woken up today, to the fact that no one wants to purchase businesses in Australia. There is no use appealing to people and saying that Australian businesses should take over foreign owned com- panies if they could. Nobody wants them. Let us ave a look the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, a name which is thrown around in many debates in this House. From memory, it does not produce 3 per cent on capital investment. It would be better if it could seU such a business and invest the money in a finance company at 17.5 per cent interest. Some honourable members opposite are starting to wake up to the fact that unless they allow firms to make a profit there will be more business gloom, less private investment flow and more unemployment. I thought that some of the Government supporters had woken up to that fact, but evidently the honourable member for Hunter has not woken up to it. 
In his quickly read preamble and historical dissertation, which was most interesting in other ways, the honourable member for Hunter also mentioned the firm of Slater Walker Securities Limited. That brings me to the point of my speech tonight. Many businesses in Australia today are suffering from a chronic cash flow position. Quarterly taxation payments, soaring inflation rates and the replenishment of stock at prices which are going up 25 per cent from one year to the next result in a terribly difficult cash flow position. Big and small businesses are feeling the onus in the same way. The businesses that will go to the slaughter house first are the small ones. Amongst all this conglomerate of problems which are facing the business world and which are forcing gloom, unemployment and retrenchment in the community today, no firms are harder hit than those in the wine industry. This has happened because of the Government's treatment of this industry during the last 2Vi years. Excise went up 178 per cent in 2 Budgets and the mini-Budget. In addition, sales tax has been levied. The firms in the wine industry are in a chronic cash flow position. I know of one winery today that is paying 8 1 per cent- I repeat 8 1 per cent- of taxable income to the Government. No firm can continue under those conditions. 
On another occasion, because it is such a big subject I shall touch on stock revaluation and the damage that that has done to the wine industry. But in the few minutes available to me tonight I shall deal with the problem that is facing these firms. Taxation measures and inflation roaring out of control are doing exactly what  Mr Grassby,  the previous member for Riverina,  Mr Foster,  the previous member for Sturt and many other members used to accuse our Party of doing when it was in Government. They accused us of forcing wine firms in Australia into the position of accepting takeover by international companies. The firm of Slater Walker was mentioned tonight. There are in Australia more than 300 wineries and more than 60 distilleries producing brandy at one level or another. 
We have today's inflation rate, a taxation rate that is roaring out of control and stock revaluation. I know of one company that this month has to find the first of 20 instalments over a 5-year period in excess of $500,000. The problem that faces these companies quite clearly is that they go along to the Prices Justification Tribunal and say: 'We want to put up the prices of our commodity. We may price ourselves out of the market but we have no other way of doing it. We have to find $250,000 or $500,000 for extra taxation on stock revaluation, let alone the 178 per cent increase in excise that has been imposed in 13 months, and the inroads made by imported brandies, largely due to the heavy taxation rate levied on distilleries in Australia '. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal would say, as I think it probably must say under its terms of reference: 'You cannot come along here and get a price rise. You are not showing us a cost factor. This has no direct relationship to the cost of production on which you should justify a case for an increase in price. There is nothing we can do to help you out of your predicament'. How on earth will those wineries exist under those circumstances? They could go to the banks and borrow. Some firms have to pay $ 1.5m a year for 5 years. But that money has to be serviced. How is it to be serviced if the price of the end product cannot be increased in order to get a better cash flow position? Quite clearly these firms have been given only several alternatives: They can borrow to try to service that cash, which I think is beyond all possible reason. They can sell, which I think some of them will have to do. As I have already explained in referring to the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter, under the terrible economic conditions facing business today there is mighty little chance for Australian private investment to go into this area. So what do we expect? More Slater Walkers? More overseas domination of an industry that has been traditionally a family one and part of the Australian rural scene for a long while. 
The third alternative that must occur to these firms is straight retrenchment. I guess this is the argument that would get home to the Government better than anything else, on past performance. The firms may be forced to retrench. Cannot somebody see that this undue weight of taxation- 81 per cent of taxable income in the case of one company- is quite unreal and that those people, those shareholders, those private companies, no matter what they are, cannot be expected to carry this bundle forever? If this sort of thing goes on the Government most certainly, to use a hackneyed phrase, will kill the goose that laid the golden egg. It is quite inconceivable that the productive sector of the Australian economy can continue to pay for what we on this side of the House regard as irresponsible expenditure in many ways. To continue in this way will dry up the very source of the Government 's revenue. 
Only the other day the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  gave a grant to a small interest group in my area to carry out a study in the question of whether a certain freeway should go through a certain area. The decision on the freeway was made by the Dunstan Government. The inquiry should have been instigated when the decision was made. 
-Today I would like to grieve about the wine industry, but before doing so I point out that certain polling centres in country areas have been closed. This matter was mentioned last night by my colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0 'Keefe)  and very properly so because a lot of principles are involved. When speaking in the adjournment debate I made a small error in not giving the relevant Ministers their correct title. During the adjournment debate last night I suggested that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  should sometimes let the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  know precisely what policy decisions he is taking, because as part of his policy of closing down country polling centres in areas with less than a certain population which he considers reasonable, he has inadvertently closed down the polling centre at the regional growth centre of Monarto. I wonder whether he had let his colleague know about this. 
I am not sure whether this is a sign of the times or whether the Minister for Services and Property knows a lot more than the Minister for Urban and Regional Development knows. In other words, I am not quite sure whether it is a sign of the times that the much vaunted regional growth centre of Monarto, which is shortly to have a population of 100 000, is now to have its polling centre closed. To say the least, it is a rather humorous situation and one which must lead members on this side of the House to wonder precisely what the Government has up its sleeve in relation to the future planning of that centre. 
I think it is true to say that the Government has a new found zeal. One must assume that by honest knowledge it suddenly has discovered that businesses, particularly some small businesses in certain sections of Australia, are getting into very deep trouble. These include businesses in country areas, in certain regional areas and, indeed, in some cases in capital cities. It is well known, even within some sections of the Government now, that this is due to inflation, to the high costs of plant replacement, to increasing costs of wages- in some cases justifiable- to a heavy taxation onus and to a general lack of cash flow caused by the pressures of these 4 factors on the businesses concerned. I think that even the Government is now beginning to realise that this rate of inflation, with the other pressures that have been induced such as heavy taxation, is causing a great deal of gloom and a great deal of lack of private investment in the private sector, which employs 70 per cent of the work force of Australia today. This brings with it the strong danger of added unemployment arising. 
Having said that, let me say that there is no question in my mind that one sector of the business community has been hit a great deal harder than any other single sector. I am referring to an industry which I think has had an extraordinarily rough deal from this Government over the  2Vi  yean it has been in power. I refer to the wine and brandy industry. I think it is fair to say- I certainly will attempt to justify this remark during the remainder of my 10 minutes- that the Labor Party policy in relation to the wine industry has been downright apathetic, ambivalent and in some cases completely dishonest. I suppose that I had better justify that remark. Historically, as a party, the Australian Labor Party has played political football with the industry on the question of the wine excise which was introduced in the time of Prime Minister Gorton. The Labor Party promised to remove this tax if elected to power in 1972. It honoured that promise. However, prior to the 1972 election the then Leader of the Opposition promised that no other tax would be substituted for the wine excise. In the meantime, judged on the first year's statistics after the introduction of the wine excise in its original form, Professor Grant brought down a report to the Government. As a result of that report, 50 per cent of the excise was removed. From memory, this occurred on 25 May 1972. 1 think it is worthwhile honourable members remembering that the maximum amount collected in any one year under that wine excise was, in round figures, $ 1 1 .5m. 
I cite the reaction of the Labor Party Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  on behalf of wine growing areas such as Riverland, the Barossa Valley, Clare, McLaren Vale and Coonawarra. They are great names, and the Premier of South Australia should have stuck up for them. I remind the House of  Mr Dunstan  's reaction when this Government proceeded to levy on that industry a higher rate of taxation than the rate of excise which that taxation replaced. This was not a marginal matter. A moment ago I cited the excise receipts in a top year as being $ 11.5m. In a few minutes time I will attempt to substantiate the case by showing that this Government has levied on the industry a tax which will collect approximately $50m this year. That $1 1.5m of the original wine excise was at the full rate. Honourable members would do well to remember also that from May 1972 half of that excise rate was taken off, making the excise 25c in the gallon. At that level, the tax levied by this Government on the wine industry has amounted to $50m as compared with $5.75m previously. 
The fact of the matter is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who gave the South Australian Premier an assurance that no alternate tax would be levied has presided over a situation in which the taxes levied on the wine industry have risen from an equivalent of $5.75m to approximately $50m. So much for words of honour from this Government as far as the wine and brandy industry is concerned. 
I quote from the front page of the Adelaide 'News'. In a report on 23 November 1973, the 'News' stated: 
An angry Premier,  Mr Dunstan  . . . 
The South Australian Labor Premier: . . . said today the Federal Government had placed him in a 'shamefully difficult position' by insisting on new imposts on the wine industry. 'I have been put in a position of personal dishonour and I bitterly resent it, ' said  Mr Dunstan. 
In an almost unprecedented attack by a Labor Premier on the Federal Labor Government,  Mr Dunstan  said . . . ... he had assured the wine industry that not only would the 50c per gallon wine impost imposed by the Liberal Government be removed by a Labor Government, but no new imposts would be applied. 
He had given these assurances at the request of the then Opposition Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  on behalf of the Federal Labor Party. 'No one can say the removal of the brandy differential and the revaluation of wine are not new imposts,'  Mr Dunstan  said. 
That is the background to the present position in the industry whose members feel that they have been treated with dishonesty and unfairness and to untruthful statements in a situation in which they have no redress. 
In the last 6 months, this is what has happened: The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has expressed sympathy with new suggestions put forward by the industry. He has told in confidence of his possible submissions to Cabinet. He told me that. It is a confidence that I have honoured. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  was acquainted with those submissions as were certain departmental officers. At this stage we heard that Professor Mathews of the Mathews Committee had told the Treasury that these submissions were outside his terms of reference. In the meantime, the Treasurer agreed that the industry should telegram its members saying that he was sympathetic and would give a reply by 3 1 March. When this date was passed, and the Treasurer was about to go to the Philippines on about Anzac Day the industry in some concern sent a paper to the Prime Minister and requested an interview. It obtained no interview. It received a curt reply saying no to all the industry's suggestions. This in a nutshell is the position now. These industries are trying to exist while paying up to 8 1 per cent of their taxable income and they cannot persist indefinitely on that basis. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
General Insurance Committee 

 Mr R. J. Lamble General Manager of NRMA Insurance Ltd. 

 Mr K. H. McLeod, General Secretary of the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation. 

 Mr D. G. Pettigrew, Managing Director of the Sun Alliance Group in Australia. 

 Mr R. A. Sinclair, General Manager for Australia of the Royal Insurance Group. 

 Mr J. K. Staveley, Managing Director of AMP Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd. 

 Mr J. G. Wallace, General Counsel for Lloyd's in Australia. 

 Mr I. West, an Executive Member of the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation. 

 Mr J. H Winter, General Manager of the Australian Reinsurance Co. Ltd. 
Life Insurance Committee 

 Mr K. T. Blarney, General Manager of the T &amp; G Mutual Life Society Ltd. 

 Mr R. W. Champion, a Consulting Actuary. 

 Mr L. J. Cohn,  Deputy  General Manager of the National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd. 

 Mr J. T. Corbett, General Manager of South British United Life Assurance Co. Ltd. 

 Mr S. M. Crabb, member of the Federal Executive Committee of the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation. 

 Mr D. Menzies, General Manager of the Commonwealth General Assurance Corporation Ltd. 

 Mr P. W. Reilly, General  President  of the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation. 

 Mr P. C. Wickens, General Manager of the City Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. 
-I am not awfully conversant with the subject matter upon which the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  speaks. I will dismiss it by saying that the Minister, having taken 10 minutes to try to justify his decision, whatever it was, I think he probably protesteth a little too much. He did not sound awfully convincing to me, no matter what the facts of the case are. I rise tonight to put the view of the Bishop of the Murray in South Australia and the Archdeacon of that diocese and also to put the view of one or two churches in the same area. It appears that what has happened is that the advisory panel of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in South Australia may well have- that is as far as I can go- put forward a suggestion that would limit the amount of time spent on religious broadcasts in South Australia. The Archdeacon of that diocese has written to me wanting to know whether I can find out whether this is correct or not. I do not expect the Minister representing the Minister for the Media to be able to answer that question, but perhaps he could treat my remarks as a form of inquiry and comment on them later. The Minister may be able to throw some light on the position. The Bishop says in his letter, in effect that Australia is not a wholly secular society. He quotes from a public opinion poll which was evidently held quite recently that 84 per cent of all Australians believe in God, and in excess of 60 per cent believe Jesus Christ to be the Son of God. I have not seen the results of that poll, but that is one of the arguments that the Bishop uses to counter the claim that Australian society is a secular society. Perhaps I should get back to the statement that has been circularised, whether correctly or not. The Archdeacon states: 
It has been asserted that the reason for this move is that 'the community is secular, and that religion should, on merit, earn its place m the common ground of public significance and debate, rather than from an accession of privilege '. 
I would not personally seek a privileged position in relation to time spent on the media- in this case broadcasting- by any section of society, but in passing I would not be honest if I did not say that I admire the point of principle taken by so many strong adherents to the Church in many areas of Australia. The Bishop goes on to say, on figures cited during last winter in South 
Australia, more people attended religious services on Sunday than attended football matches during the day immediately preceding Sunday. I do not quite know how these figures have been ascertained, whether it is by using League official figures in South Australia which of course would be far higher than for the other form of football played in New South Wales and Queensland, which does not match, in spectator appeal, the southern code of football. But if that measurement is correct, again that is strong evidence of the fact that Australia is not a wholly secular society. I am in the rather invidious position of having said that given the right opportunity I will make inquiries on behalf of the writers of these letters. I should like to know whether the Minister has any comment to make. I realise that this matter is meant to have emanated from an advisory panel of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in South Australia. Perhaps the Minister can make some inquiries and even give an assurance that, if the ratings for religious broadcasts are up to the mark they should be, he will see that there is no dimunition of the time spent on religious broadcasting in South Australia or indeed in any other State. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Initially I had better apologise to the Committee because I was the culprit who prior to question time circulated the sheets of paper to which reference has been made by honourable members on this side of the chamber. I did not think to intrude on honourable members opposite. I took the view that the National Marriage Council of Australia would be both objective and knowledgeable in these matters, and there are problems with an open vote. If I have caused any offence to honourable members I certainly apologise. 
I stated in my speech during the second reading debate that I was attracted to the proposition that divorce can be obtained 12 months after the consent of the parties is given and also that I would be interested in an amendment that would bring up unilateral applications for divorce to the 24-month period. Insofar as that is so, I intend to support the amendments to clause 48 of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I find that this is a reasonable attitude to take. I am not quite so sure about sub-clause (c) of his amendments, as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  stated a few minutes ago. I find several problems involved. First of all, I invite the Committee to look at the problem of collusion in relation to sub-clause (c). I regard it as being a vehicle whereby parties could get together in collusion to the disadvantage of the intent of sub-clause (c). 
Let us take an easy example. Maybe one or both parties to a marriage have got themselves otherwise involved with other people. I accept that that would amount to an irretrievable breakdown. But let us say that they want to hasten the divorce proceedings and not wait for the full 12 months of living separately and apart. They might decide in relation to arrangements involving property, money, houses and that sort of general concept that they would make a deal by establishing that the behaviour of one of the parties to the marriage had caused that marriage to break down irretrievably. That situation makes me hesitate to support sub-clause (c). Before I continue on that aspect another matter concerns me and I do not know whether it properly conforms to this clause. The following situation has been put to me in South Australia: What protection is given to a wife living in a house, with another female living in that house, and the husband- how can I put this delicately? servicing the two of them, in a situation in which the wife does not seek a divorce, loves her husband but has a mental blackout on this thing and does not want to recognise that it is so. What protection does she have under the legislation? If the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will answer that question later I shall be very pleased to hear him. As long as there is a 12-month or 2-year period in the desertion aspect I think there are difficulties involving that wife who might not want a divorce. Short of taking out an injunction because of the behaviour of the husband, what protection would that wife have under those circumstances? By and large, talking purely to the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth and because of lack of other arguments to the contrary, I support the first 2 subclauses of the amendment but at this stage my attitude is to treat sub-clause (c) with grave doubt. 
I welcome the fact that some life is coming into this debate. I must take the opposite view entirely from the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  because I think he has totally missed the concept of the Family Court. If ever a remark led me to suppose that what I am about to say is true, it is the remark of our friend, the lawyer, when he referred to the legality of current courts. The total concept, surely, in relation to many of the clauses contained in this Bill is that the Family Court concept should not be riddled with legality. It should not be riddled with lawyers' views. It must be totally different from the High 
Court, totally different from the Supreme Court and totally different - 
The honourable member for Moreton should concentrate on submarines. Surely the whole concept of this Bill is to take away the past methods of assessing such matters. Let me turn to the South Australian Family Court about which I am not entirely lacking in knowledge. The Family Court in South Australia is not set up as an Act of law. It is purely attached to the local Court. For want of a better expressionperhaps this is a wrong use of the word- it is an appendage of the local Court in that State. It has no constitutional standing. It is doing a very good job in spite of many difficulties. Not only does the Family Court have to use the resources of the Supreme Court, most of which are either inadequate or not competent in this particular field- I back up my friend, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)-  but they are also having to drag on the resources of local courts, marriage guidance counsellors and on all sorts of areas. 
That is entirely the opposite of my understanding of the concept of this Bill. My understanding of the concept of this Bill is that the Family Court should be something quite different from the courts of law. It should attract people to go along to seek help from its counselling service. It should be informal. The man in the king positionwhatever that may be- should not wear a wig. In fact, in the very definition of the appointment of judges in this court honourable members will find- this is one of the good points I like about this Bill- that not only has a judge to be competent in the area of law, to satisfy my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  but more than that, he has to be competent and experienced in human fields and human understanding. That is referred to in the definitions, if honourable members care to look at them, and it points to its value to the community, to the average man who feels that he is in trouble and wants to be able to go along and discuss these things. If that is not to be the case, then we are not going to attract the people who need help to come along and discuss their problems. 
Another matter which has been mentioned and which I should like to discuss in the few minutes I have left relates to the age of judges. I can comment on this a little because I was a member of the South Australian State Parliament at the time it conducted negotiations with certain judges, who then agreed to take their superannuation at a certain age, contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the High Court concept in this nation. Running on from that argument, I accept that, in general, anything would be better than the current situation in Australia, and if State Family Courts can be set up throughout Australia operating in the image of the South Australian court, it will be a good thing. But we must have competent people, properly screened, not only appointed to the position of judges of that court but also operating particularly in the field of guidance and counselling. I see no point at all finishing up with a series of State courts having no correlation, no uniform approach to problems, no access to the sort of information that can flow through from the Federal Court in this field. I am sorry that the Government has not stuck to its original position in relation to clause 41 and has agreed to go along with the amendment moved in the Senate by  Senator Missen. 
-I should like to support in a modified fashion the views expressed by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  In fact, I mentioned this aspect in a short speech during the second reading debate. I will not weary honourable members by repeating that speech, but I tried to draw the distinction, as has the honourable member for Sturt, between on the one hand divorces that occur shortly after marriage for a variety of reasons- I am presuming that they are valid reasons- and divorces that occur after the children have left the nest, and on the other hand divorces between 35-year-old people with 6 children. I do not consider that this Bill quite considers community views on that sort of thing. As the honourable member for Sturt has said, really it all boils down to what gives best security to the children. I am in a bit of a quandary on this matter because, on the one hand, there are many instances in which the insecurity of a child is magnified by having an unhappy domestic atmosphere. There is no question about that. If parents are warring constantly, then children become worried; they ponder what they can do to help and they become emotionally quite upset. I think that is well proven. On the other hand, there are those marriages in which I am quite sure people can persist and should be encouraged to persist until such time as the children are mature enough to have a better understanding of the problems that face an older generation than their own. I am not completely satisfied at this point of time that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Sturt precisely carries out what I have in mind. I think it probably does, and I should like to voice my concern in the same area. I will be interested to hear what the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has to say in relation to those aspects of this clause. 
I suppose that the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  could be described as a case of brutal honesty. But I certainly would not look at it for one minute as a watering down of the provisions of the Bill. If honourable members read the clause that the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  described as a jewel or a rare orchid in the desert, they will find that it might offend that concept. I am prepared to admit that. I will read out what the amendment of the honourable member for Lowe proposes. It proposes to omit the words 'voluntarily entered into for life' and to substitute the words 'voluntarily entered into upon the basis that the union is intended to be for life'- the honourable member uses the word permanent'- 'and should not be dissolved by law unless the marriage relationship has irretrievably broken down'. I would have thought that the last few words that are proposed to be inserted did the opposite to watering down the marriage. In fact, I would have taken the view rightly or wrongly- I suppose that I am entitled to my view- that this tightens up the position and sets down the principles contained in clause 43. The marginal notes for clause 43 state 'principles to be applied by courts'. I would have thought that this was a worthy principle to be taken into account by the courts in conjunction with the other provisions in the Bill so poetically described by my friend the honourable member for Macquarie. I am surprised at 2 views that I have heard so far. They are along the lines that this amendment would represent a watering down of the principles that should be looked at by the court prior to considering any case of divorce. Of course, this is the job of the courts as the legislation is constituted. Although it is brutally honest, on balance I support the amendment. 
-Firstly, I agree with the points made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I think in all probability they cover the issues in sub-clauses (c) and (n). The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  just mentioned one of the points I was going to make so I shall not repeat it at length. It is a little hard, if one looks at the wording of the amendment of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to see how a wife could continue to be a wife if she had no husband. I would carry it a little further and say that it is a little difficult to see how she could continue to be a mother if she did not have any children. Let us face the fact - 
Wait a minute. Just hear me out and I will get back to that. The court has custody and control of the children. That is the second point. The third point that worries me is that the proposed amendment states:   the need to protect the position of a woman who wishes only to continue her role as a wife and mother; 
Is this meant to encompass her future maternal role or is it meant merely to cover the position of looking after children that may be left to her by the custody of the court? I do not think I am nitpicking. These are practical problems involved in the wording of this amendment.  Mr Berinson,  this might surprise you- although after today nothing may surprise you- in spite of these problems I intend, on balance, to support the amendment. The issue is so serious that I think the Committee would do well to make sure that the situation is covered, even if we are guilty of duplication, which I believe we would be in accepting the amendment. If the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby),  when or if he rises in reply on what is a private member's Bill and not his, can convince me that the faults I find are groundless I will not support the amendment. But my current thinking is that despite all the faults and the anomalies that have been drawn to the attention of the Committee by the right honourable member for Lowe and the honourable member for Port Adelaide and two more by myself, on balance I will support the amendment unless the Attorney-General convinces me that the position of this clause in relation to the others is such that my fears are not well-grounded. 
-The redistribution of the South Australian divisions has been carried out, as has been pointed out to the House already, under changed conditions. There is no way in which I would criticise the Distribution Commissioners in that State above all the State Commissioners who have brought down changed boundaries. I think it goes without saying. In fact it is the very reason the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has brought on the redistribution proposals in South Australia first. By a lot of criteria the new boundaries are an improvement. One of the improvements is that they provide some seats that can swing. Under this distribution made according to the requirement of not more than a 10 per cent variation the number of seats that can swing to and fro is greater than previously. I applaud this. This is perfectly valid. But I hasten to add that the Commissioners, as has already been said to the House, are operating under changed conditions. Anomalies have occurred because of these changed conditions and we will consider them. Members of my Party through the length and breadth of Australia have been strongly criticised in a rather blustering speech by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  which I felt was far less convincing than usual. 
Let us look at some of the problems. I think at one stage the honourable member for Adelaide used the word 'dishonour' in relation to the Liberal Party. He used a lot more extravagant expressions. During his speech he said that he had read my submission but I wonder whether he has. Let us forget once and for all the suggestion that the National Country Party of Australia has intended to sway the political judgment of my Party. My electorate is as much a rural electorate as any other electorate. Rural electorates are held by all 3 parties in this Parliament. I do not know what notice the Australian Labor Party took of the views of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  or of the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  By the look of it, none. The people of those electorates must become disenchanted and dishonoured by the fact that the Government refuses to look at those aspects of the question. 
It is of no use in this House or anywhere else for the honourable member for Adelaide to attempt to drive in his little wedge by saying that our Party is going to water because of Country Party influence, domination or anything else. My own submission should be proof of that. In fact, if we want to look at submissions, let us look at the worst submission of the lot in South Australia, which was the Australian Labor Party submission: It favoured the seat of Angas marvellously well. I do not complain on those grounds, but one has to complain on every other ground. It took no account of growth in the hills areas, in Monarto and in growth districts like Kingston. It was a second-rate document produced off the top of somebody's head. I have my suspicions, but I hope it was not produced by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  because it would not do him any credit. On the evidence of its own submission the Labor Party does not understand the political attitudes of the community or the norms on which the Commissioners were operating on this occasion. So enough of this nonsense. 
The honourable member for Adelaide tried to use as evidence the statement of the Leader of the State Parliamentary Liberal Party,  Dr Eastick.  It was a very moderate statement but the honourable member for Adelaide used it as though it was a reflection of the political alignment of the parties on redistribution. Of course it was not. All  Dr Eastick  said was that under the redistribution the Liberal Party would win 7 seats as against five, where the current position is the opposite. I can tell the honourable member for Adelaide now that given the political situation that applies it will not be 7 to 5; it will be 8 to 4 to the Liberal Party because we will quite certainly take Kingston and Grey, with the disadvantages under which the latter seat suffers- I do not refer to the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)-  as well as the seat of Adelaide and maybe even the seat of Hawker. So let us not confuse a political statement by the Leader of the Liberal Party in South Australia- it is a very conservative statement; the future will have to prove this- with the fact that although the redistribution in South Australia has been termed in many areas as the fairest of the State's redistributions, on my figuring it will still take 53 per cent of the vote for the Liberal Party to get 50 per cent of the seats- of course we will exceed that by far- and it will still take only 47 per cent of the vote, on my reckoning, for the Labor Party to get 50 per cent of the seats. 
I accept what the honourable member for Adelaide said in the more rational moments of his speech. There are elements of fairness, one of which I mentioned before. There will be a much more interesting situation that will give more vitality to political arguments in South Australia. I am quite sure that is so.  Mr Speaker,  if I may take advantage momentarily of the terms you laid down earlier for the debate I shall digress slightly, but I shall refer back all the time to the State of South Australia. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  made a very interesting point. Everything depends on from what view one looks at a redistribution. One can produce facts and figures to show that a national vote one way will equate with a number of seats for one party; that a national percentage of votes one way will equate conversely with the other party in terms of seats. But of course the element that is not dealt with under this quite fair method of looking at the problem is the element of the seats that can swing. 
We all know the constitutional limitations of Tasmania. But it so happens that at this time, the Constitution notwithstanding, all the seats in Tasmania are held by the Government. It is perfectly valid to argue that there was not any real need for redistribution in that State. The redistribution does not alter the situation much. All that it does, under the changed conditions set down under this Government's method of redistributing boundaries, is to produce a situation in which nearly every seat in Tasmania is firmed up for the Labor Party. One could say this is fair. I do not blame honourable members on the Government side arguing this way. But one could ask whether a redistribution was even necessary. In all fairness too, we must comment on the fact that all the swinging seats in Tasmania are now by some magical stroke shored up to make it harder for the non-Labor parties to win them. This is a valid observation in relation to the parameters on which the Commissioners have had to operate. I think it pays this House to take into account the fact that the same principle applies- one can understand the Commissioners' difficulties- in South Australia in terms of Kingston. This is just another example of how under those parameters the Labor Party seat of Kingston is shored up considerably. The distribution has made it much harder for the Liberal Party to win it. 
If this redistribution in South Australia and elsewhere is so totally fair, as I have heard argued, I think, by the honourable member for 
Port Adelaide, the Government should look at the seat of Lilley in Queensland over the past 15 years. When we were in government the seat of Lilley was almost impossibly concocted, to make it as hard for the Liberal Party to win as it was possible to make it. I do not think the House can be blamed for thinking of a seat like Lilley which chronically at every redistribution during the 1960s, became progressively harder for the Liberal Party to win. 
-That is a different matter, when compared with the situation that applies now where every swinging seat held by the Labor Party throughout Australia happens by some fluke or other to be shored up and made more difficult for the Labor Party to lose. You would excuse that observation,  Mr Speaker.  I appreciate that citing the example of one seat such as Lilley does not prove my argument. But you must see, and the House must see, that it looks bad. 
I cannot comment about Henty. I do not know whether it is better or worse. But I can give the examples of Isaacs and the Tasmanian seats where constitutional problems are involved. Macarthur is one of those seats. 
Kingston in South Australia is another example of this situation in which the same picture is presented. Be it by fluke or concoction as a result of the new parameters drawn- and I certainly excuse the distribution commissioners- the fact of the matter is that it appears now that these swinging seats will be held more readily by the Government than they were before. Looking through the generalities of the redistribution proposals throughout Australia, the Government asks us in those circumstances to vote for these proposals. Of course, we do not intend to vote for the proposals. 
As a South Australian I go one stage further to say that there is still a possibility that after the 1976 census South Australia will get another seat. The massive alteration to the seat of Angas proposed in this redistribution may then prove to be redundant as certainly any new seat in South Australia would go into the metropolitan area. 
The honourable member for Adelaide has read my submission; he said so during his speech. He knows very well of the anger of the people in the wine growing areas and the citrus growing areas from the Barossa Valley to the Mypolonga area. The community of interest in that area of South Australia in which specialist industries are followed has been disbanded and rended. Those engaged in these industries feel that separation greatly. Let us use those areas as an example. If in the terms of the 1976 census South Australia were to get another seat, all of these boundary changes would be redundant. The view of these people who feel the proposed changes keenly is that if these proposals are passed by the Parliament they are being disenfranchised. But let us not use extravagant language. Let us say that the base of the operations of these industries and of the expertise of those in these industries in dealing with their member of Parliament will be thwarted. The situation that will result will be remedied if South Australia is given a new seat after the next census. 
I say to the Leader of the House, who is busy writing his memoirs, that the way out of this difficulty- I think that he should take this into account- is that once the number of Senate seats becomes greater the nexus between the 2 Houses, which has been regarded pretty laxly over the years, varies also. The way out of his difficulty and out of the difficulties of the honourable member for Grey, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and those other honourable members who have an impossibly large job to do is, frankly, to create more seats and to take advantage of the nexus provisions in this respect. I would like to hear from the Minister in relation to that proposition, if he gets around to answering the case put forward by honourable members on this side of the House. 
I finalise my remarks in this way: Let us not have too much of the blustering ballyhoo with which the honourable member for Adelaide carried on at the start and finish of his speech. There are valid reasons within the parameters as I have described them to consider that the redistribution for the State of South Australia is redundant in the present circumstances and may well react strongly to the disadvantage of those people who may have to put up with their boundaries being altered to cope with one new situation shortly and another new situation within 2 years. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="095131197505212_43_1.jpg"></graphic>


 -Mr Chairman, I wish to move an amendment to clause 1 1 5 which concerns the Family Law Council and which is dealt with in this miscellaneous part of the Bill. I will not read through the methods of appointment or what the Family Law Council aims to do, as set out in the Bill. The aim of my amendment is to insert new sub-clauses (5 a) and (5B). I will deal firstly with the first part of the amendment to insert a new sub-clause (5A). This is designed to correct the situation that could emerge with a newly appointed Family Law Council in regard to which there is no limitation as to the period of appointment. In other words, the Council could grow older in perpetuity. This could be a disadvantage when other advice could flow through to the Attorney-General or that otherwise could be motivated from within the Council. I think that there is room for amendment within this clause. My amendment enables the Attorney-General in his wisdom after a specified appointment for a 3-year period to renew that appointment or, if he sees fit, not to renew it. What this amendment does, in effect- I have a hope that the Government will accept it- is to enable the Attorney-General to keep an eye on the Family Law Council with a view to graduating the age group of the Council and not letting the whole Council grow old or set in their ideas as one age group in terms of the time of their appointment. Accordingly, I have moved an amendment for the insertion of a new subclause (5A). 
I proceed to the other part of my amendment, to insert a new sub-clause (5B). The proposed new sub-clause will read: 
The appointment of a member of the Council may, at any time, be terminated by the Attorney-General. 
This enables the Attorney-General purely to take action if he sees fit when a member of the Family Law Council becomes disinterested and does not carry out his work to the general satisfaction of the Government. I think that it is a desirable provision. I am not personally so concerned about the amendment in regard to the new sub-clause (5B) as I am in regard to my proposed new subclause (5A). I hope that the Government will accept this amendment. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="095131197505223_51_1.jpg"></graphic>

I wish to speak to this clause because there is a question of appointments and State government sources are involved. I wish to return if I may, to the question of Hallett Cove. It is a constant source of amazement to me to find the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  blaming anyone from the Legislative Council to conservative forces in South Australia in relation to this question. Both the Minister for Environment and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  will remember clearly that on several occasions I have sent them telegrams. Hallett Cove is not in my electorate and I hope that my facts are correct. The truth of the matter does not involve conservative forces or Adelaide clubs or anyone else. The State Government declared, from memory, an area of 511/2 acres as a reserve, and it had every right to declare a reserve of 250 acres or 350 acres. I think there is no earthly use the Minister trying to blame forces other than the South Australian Government which declared that area, and which entered into a contract with the developers in that region for areas outside that 511/2 acres. This matter has nothing to do with the Upper House of New South Wales, the Geebung Polo Club or anyone else. 
I will not delay the House for very long but I must take up a point of inaccuracy made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  during the debate. He attempted to show in his inimitable fashion that the blame for the problem of Hallett Cove in South Australia should be laid at the feet of the State Upper House, and of a wide variety of other right wing forces, as he put it. Let me say in all fairness that that is not so. It is not only the Minister who has been interested in environmental matters; for many years many people on this side of the House have also been interested. The realisation of the importance of the Australian heritage has been the role in life not only of the Minister over all these years; the community at large has realised, as Australians have grown more mature, that these matters are important. The Minister reflects community attitudes- I give him credit for that- and reflects the attitudes of a lot of people on this side of the House. The Hallett Cove situation in South Australia is a very serious one at present. 

The question is: 
That the question be put. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that quantities of dried apricots are being imported into Australia at present 
If so, what quantity is involved. 
What quantity originated from mainland China. 
What is the name and address of the central authority responsible in China for the export of foodstuffs. 
Does the duty on these goods date back to the Ottawa Agreement on Tariff sometime in the 1 920s or 1 930s. 
Was the rate of duty approximately 4 or 5 pence per pound, and remains so to this day, at a time when dried apricots produced in Australia were sold for 10 pence to a shilling per pound. 
Are prices now in excess of a dollar per pound. 
Is the rate of duty regarded as insufficient, and does the Government intend to do anything to upgrade the rate of duty on imported dried apricots. 
-I am prompted by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  who mentioned the phrase 'after the horse has bolted' to refer to something that may initially seem somewhat apart from this Bill. That is the method of stock valuation for animals based on natural increase that is curently applied. For instance, the valuation applied at the end of a year is 40c for sheep, 50c for pigs, $1 for cattle and $2 for horses. This has been a well accepted principle for some time. But I remind the House that because of the implications of the financial policies of this Government- I refer now to section 31a of the Income Tax Act which was withdrawn in the August 1973 Budget- it has put the whole of the process of the valuation of livestock very much in the melting pot. I will explain this in relation to the Bill as I go along, but this seemed a convenient spot from which to start my form of logic. What happened to the wine industry following the withdrawal of section 31a of the Income Tax Act is that now valuations have been put on a totally different basis. Honourable members will have heard my comments in relation to this on other occasions. 
Let me start my comments on what the Government's economic policies have done to the wine industry by pointing out what it has done to business generally. Those policies have caused a vast run down of liquidity. Some of this is due to the heavier incidence of taxation, some of it is due to inflation and some of it is due to an intermix of the 2 theories. Businesses all over Australia today, particularly small businesses such as much of the wine industry have been brought under some degree of threat. These remarks apply to all businesses but particularly to small and medium sized ones and I have in mind the small family businesses which have been the very basis of the tourist industry in South Australia and the very basis of the production of quality wines emanating from that area. I will not go too far into that issue today. But such Government action is hitting small private companies in the wine industry far more than other industries. This is because they not only have the same problems of cash flow and of quarterly payment of taxation which, for instance, this BUI mentions specifically, but they also have the added problem of a 178 per cent increase in taxation over a 13-month period. Not the least part of this is due to the withdrawal of section 3 1  a  of the Income Tax Act. So I make the point that of all the businesses and industries which has been heavily hit by Government action, there are probably no businesses which have been more heavily hit than some involved in the wine and brandy producing areas of this country and their ancillary firms of this country. 
One reason I rose to speak in the debate on this BUI today is that there appears to be nobody on the Government side at this stage who is prepared to comment on the fact that the Government's specifically made certain concessions to the motor vehicle industry. I will not go into the matter any further than to make that point.  Mr Speaker,  you will forgive me if I talk like a senator, but I make a point that the motor vehicle industry is very vital to South Australia. I will leave aside for the time being the fact that planning at the industrial and manufacturing levels is quite impossible under a bits and pieces policy with no economic criteria guiding the industry into the future and with no basis on which those firms can plan production, except for one of deep gloom. These conditions apply very generally. 
I also want to point out to the House that the wine and brandy industry is perhaps even more than the motor vehicle industry a peculiarly South Australian industry. Let me make this point very thoroughly in passing: By hitting at these 2 industries in particular the Government is presumed, for reasons of logic rather than bias, to be peculiarly hitting at South Australia. I think that it is fair comment to say that it has discriminated against that State. The whole economy of South Australia is very largely involved in the automotive industry and in the wine and brandy industry. This sort of dependence is far more evident in South Australia than it is in any other State in the Commonwealth. Therefore, I think that it is apposite at this point of time to warn primary production generally of the dangers involved when the horse has bolted I use the phrase in relation to the Governmentin respect to valuations and of what should occur next in all logic. Speaking quite privately as the member for Angas, representing the Barossa Valley and the riverland areas of South Australia, I want to say this: The Government's economic policies have been so onerous for the industry that, to a major degree, the industry is rapidly reaching the stage of bankruptcy. 
I believe that we must reinstate section 3 1 A of the Income Tax Act. I am talking now as an individual. But if we were to say as an Opposition that we would reinstate that section of the Act when we are returned to government, we would not undo all the damage that has been done. So I must beseech the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  who is also Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and is sitting at the table now, to do what he can to remedy this situation. Section 3 1 A of the Income Tax Act must be reintroduced. The days have gone already, principally due to the action of this Government, when Australians can buy cheap good quality wine. But for Heaven's sake let us trunk a little of the consumer and think of the small vineyard producer and the small irrigated areas. Let us think of the integration of the industry which is a closely interwoven and correlated industry from the grape grower level right through to the top and do something about this before it is too late. 
In justice, let me repeat that all businesses in Australia today have been hit. All businesses must suffer until such forms of inflationary accountancy are accepted by the Government. All businesses must be hit while the economic climate is not suitable for investment. But above all these generalisations stand industries such as one with which I am acquainted- the wine producing industry- in which I believe one company is paying out 8 1 per cent of its taxable income in tax in one form or another during this year. I cannot keep repeating these things. Somebody on the Government side must take over the matter and do something about it or the Government will send to the wall a major industry in this country, which happens to be a South Australian industry, and will send to the wall while it is about it all the ecological factors, the charm and the tourist attraction of that industry in South Australia. 
I mentioned a while ago that, due to 18 months of careful consultation between- not the past Treasurer- the present Treasurer and the industry, companies bought a very high volume of grapes from a big harvest this year. I will not go over, as I did in another debate some time ago, the steps one by one that amounted to a final no from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  However I will point out the effect that this has had. I have here a letter from the  Chairman  of the Brandy Committee of the Australian Wine and Brandy Producers' Association sent to growers who supply grapes to his firm. I will not read it all but it refers to broken promises and vicious taxation measures with their twopronged effect on sales, liquidity and even the ultimate viability of the industry. It goes on to say that the company feels that growers should be alerted now to the fact that the company might not be in a position to continue purchasing grapes from them during 1976.  Senator Laucke  has told me that he knows of one small vineyard that for 2 generations has supplied one firm. It has received a copy of this letter suggesting that it had better look for accommodation elsewhere in the next year. 
The liquidity situation of the whole industry is causing grave concern and it is not by any means yet certain just how many companies may be forced to make only part payment for the 1975 grape season. A second letter has been sent to a different group of growers. It spells out specifically that the company may be able to make a 50 per cent payment to growers by 30 June and that the company hopes to be in a position to pay the balance by instalments of 25 per cent each on 1 October and 1 December. This is something new. Growers have always been paid out in full when their grapes have been purchased by these firms. 
As I understand it, unless governments have very big chips on their shoulders, there should be no difference between an ordinary man who perhaps after World War I decided to gamble and to borrow money to buy his own small grape producing block of land, and another man who decided to work for Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, in the private sector, the public sector or anywhere else. These average men I have mentioned took a gamble and borrowed money in order to own their own bit of soil. They are now having a major portion of their income deferred, and I can assure the House that it is not the fault of the companies. The companies have been encouraged, as this Bill encourages them over a very limited slot of time, to replenish stock, plant and equipment and to upgrade their activity. They are up to their necks in this sort of expenditure in most cases in South Australia. Due to the direct action of this Government, they have a very heavy taxation onus. The picture that is now emerging is of huge plantings of grapes in the Hunter Valley, the Riverina, the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area! South Australia, Riverland and even in the Barossa Valley that will come into production in future years and the firms which purchase those grapes from the small grower who has planted them are unable to meet their commitments for immediate payment. This is not good enough. All I can do on behalf of these people- there are a great many of them- is, as I have tried to do repeatedly, to bring this very dire situation to the notice of the House. 
I finish my speech where I started by saying that it is absolutely essential to reinstate section 31a of the Income Tax Act. If that cannot be achieved by this Government, let us see an alteration of the situation such as happened when several well-known Queen's Counsel and  Sir Norman  Young came over to this Parliament in 1953 and set up standard valuations which wine makers could write into their stock valuations, bearing in mind that the maturation period for quality production of wines is a lengthy one. I believe that the Government put undue weight on the Coombs report, which was, to say the least, hastily compiled. The Government acted on it. The Government acted on the assumption that the wine industry was internationally owned, which was a false assumption as can be readily shown. The Government acted on the basis that the maturation period of wine using modern winemaking techniques could be lowered. It can be lowered for bulk wines; it cannot for quality wines. If next week we are to have a new Treasurer and if the Minister for Tourism and Recreation is still the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, I hope that this matter will be taken up once again before irreparable damage is done to these industries. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen reports that the Government intends to use the resources of the Department of the Media to influence public opinion? Will the Minister give a categorical denial of these reports and tell this House and the people of Australia that their funds will not be used for Party political purposes? 
-Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat. The honourable member for Burke will make his point of order. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="097131197510303_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is disappointing to see that the New South Wales Conference of Local Government Associations has been critical of the development of regionalism. I know that honourable members opposite have also aired their criticism of regionalism. But regionalism is a basis of decentralisation. It is anti-centralism. If we look at the question of centralism we find that it is based more in cities like Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane than anywhere else. Those cities are far more centralised than is Canberra. Looking at the major capital cities we find not only that economic and administrative power is concentrated in the central part of each city but also that the railways and roads all radiate from the centre of each capital city. That is where the basis of centralism is to be found. Centralism was extended more and more under the Opposition Parties when they were in government. This Government is seeking to set up a basis for regionalism. It seems to me that this is the rational way to give power back to the people at the economic level. 
No matter what honourable members opposite may say they know that local authorities have never received such financial aid as is proposed to be made available as a result of the legislation now before the House. I therefore seek the support of this Parliament for this Bill. This legislation affecting the Grants Commission has been hailed by all local governments everywhere. It is something positive that is being done by this Government and which previous governments failed to do. In the past, the burden of responsibility was thrown onto local government. The figures that I have given showing the debt burden of local governments under the former Administration demonstrate that the debt situation into which local government fell was like a quagmire. That debt situation increased by some 2000 per cent. The debt situation of semigovernment authorities- that is, sewage authoritieshad increased by 2800 per cent. This Government is doing something positive to try to overcome that situation. It will take some time to overcome the problem. There is no instant solution to it. But the legislation now before the House is a step in the right direction. I ask even those negative forces on the other side of the House to give support to this legislation. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is not only appropriate but certainly it is also my wish that I be allowed one or two moments to congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  most sincerely on your elevation to the office you now hold. In passing may I also pay my compliments to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I was a trifle astounded to hear him refer to banks as storehouses of integrity. I have no doubt that that statement, if I heard it correctly , will be noticed in high places. I know that all sorts of banks store commodities, sometimes of great importance, but probably nothing of greater importance than integrity. I was interested in the honourable member's use of that term. 

 Mr Speaker, my purpose in rising is to congratulate you and I request you to pass on my best wishes, and the best wishes of honourable members of this side of the House, to your wife. In times of adversity men come forward- and in this case I would spell Men with a capital. I think you have succeeded in attracting the admiration of the people of Australia for the fine way in which you and your wife have coped with adversity. In many ways adversity is a major requirement in forming character, and character is what is needed to control this House in a dignified and proper fashion. I personally wish you well and I hope you have a long, successful and happy sojourn in your present office. 
I take much pleasure from being allowed to second the motion that  Mr Lucock,  the honourable member for Lyne, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees. My friend, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  has already mentioned that the honourable member for Lyne has established a record of service in this particular position in this Parliament. I go further by saying that the honourable member for Lyne has actually served as  Chairman  of Committees, and therefore as  Deputy Speaker,  under 3 Speakers to my knowledge-  Speaker  Cameron,  Speaker Sir John  McLeay, who was with us earlier today, and  Speaker Sir William  Aston. When the parties to which he and I belong occupied the Opposition benches,  Mr Lucock  served this House well as the senior  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. I am satisfied that he will be elected to this important position today. Perhaps he will allow me to say that this will be a proper return to the position in that it is almost a parliamentary tradition that he should occupy it. I hope I do not magnify any facet of  Mr Lucock  's makeup by saying that. 
With you,  Mr Speaker, Mr Lucock  will bear a heavy responsibility for the proper conduct of this House. Long may intelligent and informed chairmanship allow rational debate to be the method by which issues are decided in this House. There have been times when signs of rowdyism did occur, as you,  Mr Speaker,  will be well aware. In pointing out to both you,  Mr Speaker,  and  Mr Lucock  the heavy responsibility that you bear, I would like to say very sincerely that no Presiding Officer can function properly in controlling this House without the complete support and understanding of the House. I know,  Mr Speaker,  that when you are away on important business that probably you will have to conduct over the years you will be happy and find solace in the fact that  Mr Lucock,  as your  deputy,  will be presiding over this House in your place. Over the years I have found him to be a most knowledgeable and experienced man who is sensitive to the mood of the House. I would have hoped that there would have been unanimous support for him to have this position. I have much pleasure in seconding the motion before you for the appointment of  Mr Lucock. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio)-I have very much pleasure in supporting the nomination of the honourable member for Scullin,  Dr Jenkins,  who served in the last Parliament as  Chairman  of Committees. Prior to that he served as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. He has served in this Parliament and in the Parliament of Victoria. He has a vast experience of parliamentary affairs and showed during his term as -my  Deputy  and as  Chairman  of Committees in this House that he is a man of tolerance and capacity, a man who did the job of  Chairman  of Committees in the manner this House deserves. I am aware of the quality of the other candidate, the honourable member for Lyne,  Mr Lucock,  who, as has been said, has given great service to this Parliament. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that one of the ravages left behind after the last 3 years of misrule has been the parlous condition of decentralised country towns of some importance within this nation? Is he aware that whole sections of primary industries, particularly those with an export ingredient, are finding themselves in completely uneconomic conditions? Does he agree that it is a matter of some urgency for this Government to try to overcome the ravages to which I have referred? 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to Diego Garcia. Has the Minister any information to give the House in relation to progress towards the establishment of Diego Garcia as a defence establishment? Does he have any encouraging comment in relation to the visit to Australia recently of 4 American senators? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! It now being 10.30 p.m. and in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I understand that the honourable member for Hotham wishes to make a personal explanation. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
As the Minister has said, Proposal No. 6 arises from the Government's decision to impose quotas on knitted tops. We are thus faced with the opportunity to debate the global quotas which have been implemented in response to the Philippines' threatened embargo on Australian exports. Here we have an example of government policy- an ad hoc decision- made without realising that a decision on the clothing industry in response to pressures by that industry has ramifications for all industry. The decision raises more problems than it solves. More than 60 per cent of Australia's commodity trade surplus for 1974-75-that is, $300m out of a total of $5 80m- is accounted for by our other Asian trading partners such as China, Singapore and Thailand. What policy decisions have preceded this proposal? I hope the Minister at some time will give us an answer. I give notice that I am a believer in the Parliament becoming an open forum on tariff, in respect both of reports and of Government recommendations, for the sake of informing honourable members such as the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  consumers of Australia and business houses. I give notice also to the Minister that if necessary I will debate each tariff proposal at the time it comes before the Parliament and not follow past practice of allowing the matter to lapse. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the honourable member for Barton is about to make his maiden speech. I trust that the House will extend its usual courtesy by remaining quiet and showing attentiveness to the honourable member. I call the honourable member for Barton. 
-Order! It now being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the ord,:r of the House of 18 February 1976, 1 propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I do not think that the honourable member should ever in his remarks imply disrespect for the Chair which I rather think he rather did a little while ago. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Brown)  adjourned. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Order! I ask the honourable member to resume his seat for a minute. I let his remark about deliberate lies go past, wrongly, while I checked the Standing Orders. I suggest that deliberate dishonesty as applied to a party is unparliamentary. I call the honourable member for Darling Downs. 
I deal now with the third point in the Bill, the tidying up of the hospital section of the National Health Act which is contained in Part V. Obviously this should have been dealt with when the previous legislation was introduced. That is indicative of the patchwork quilt attitude of the then Minister. The Australian Government will now reinburse to the States and hospitals the sum of $16 a day under this legislation whereas previously $2 a day was reimbursed under subsection 46 ( 1 ) of the Act in respect of patients who were contributors to a registered hospital benefits organisation. If this amendment had not been brought forward by the Minister the Australian Government would have had to pay $ 1 8 a day in respect of such people. Additionally, the sum of 80c a day for uninsured patients in approved hospitals will no longer be paid because Medibank has taken over responsibility for these payments. 
For the sake of those people who for their own reasons desire to continue as members of medical benefits funds I hope that the Minister will be able to give added publicity to the fact that now it will be necessary for these people, if they wish to have the same amount of financial cover, to increase their contributions to their medical benefits fund and so avoid the situation where people go into hospital and then unfortunately find that they are not covered for the amount which they thought they would be covered for and have to pay the extra $2 a day themselves. 
It is appropriate to point out the savings to the Federal and State Governments under the proposals outlined in this Bill. The savings are estimated to be $ 12m in a full year to the Australian Government and $5m in a full year to the State Governments by virtue of the fact that payments will be made in accordance with a particular formula. All in all, on behalf of the National Country Party I advise that we fully support the thrust and aims of this legislation. We regret that the necessity was forced upon us to take this action basically because of the inability of the previous Administration to introduce good legislation through being very slap-happy in its attitude and its inability to control the Australian economy. As a result we have found it most necessary to save money where we believe it can be saved and in this instance we are taking action largely because the benefits are not consistent with the high cost of administering the present scheme. 
-Methinks the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  bleats too much. He would be better off if he gave up living in the past and thought about the disreputable state into which his own Party has sunk. Of all the things that I have heard in my life, and I am afraid that I have heard plenty, I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  does this sound to you like a genuine Liberal: 'Watch out for the bomb. You die soon.' Those words were composed by either a New Australian or the honourable member for Batman because nobody else could be quite so illiterate. 
-I think that is true. The honourable member for Macarthur is known for telling the truth. 
Why are you on your feet? 
If the honourable member for Batman has any evidence, I hope that rather than blab, bleat and moan in this House, he makes use of it. There is a normal process of law. He has not told us what he has done about it. I return to what I was saying. I regard it as a concoction of the imagination of the honourable member for Batman. What we make of it is anybody's guess. However he has introduced something about which I think is worthy to remind this House. It must be several years now since I last did so. The history of political confrontation in this country is studded with the bullying tactics of members of his Party, not of the Liberal Party. But one thing sticks in my gill more than anything else, and it is because I happen to know well the man concerned. He is a decent, respected person rather like the previous member for Batman. He was a merchant skipper. In the days when Batman was well represented, because that man dared to reply to a letter from a left-wing maritime unionist in the Adelaide  Advertiser,  he has had his roof peppered with stones nearly every night. For 3 years that man had ghost knockings on his door. He was victimised by political bigots, most of whom, it seems to me, always seem to exist in the Party of the honourable member for Batman. How often has the honourable member ever seen a political meeting broken up by Liberals? I ask the honourable member to give me one instance. For every one the honourable member can concoct, I can give him 100 examples of bullying tactics by members of his own Party who try to influence votes and refuse people the right of free speech in the community in general. So he should scuttle out the door because that is about the merit of the argument he brought forward in this House tonight. But enough of his nonsense. 
I rose to speak for a few minutes tonight to explain to the House some of the terrible happenings that are going on at present in my State of South Australia. Honourable members will be well aware that millions of dollars of taxpayers' funds are being found today to amalgamate uneconomic holdings in the dairy industry and rural industries generally. They are taxation funds from hard working people of this nation. Quite properly the last Labor Government found these funds to try to produce viable farms in rural areas beset by increased prices and costs, particularly as a result of the last 3 years of complete mismanagement of the economy. We all accept that this is a desirable process which was followed properly by the last Government and in some instances- I think in most instances- was instigated by our Party when we were formerly in government. I do not think that anyone objects to the scheme. But people in my State are starting to object. In States like Victoria I understand that land tax on rural enterprises is almost nonexistent except on properties of very high acreages or on high income producing country. What the Premier of South Australia is doing at present- I ask honourable members to bear in mind that we hear nothing but good every now and again about the Premier of South Australiais hitting every viable farming unit in the State so hard with land tax that he is forcing the disruption of economic areas and turning them into a series of uneconomic areas. 
It would pay honourable members to stop and think about this situation. We are using taxpayers' moneys to amalgamate areas and to produce viable farming areas. In South Australiathis may apply to other States for all I know; I know very little about Tasmania- owners of say 1200 acres in 30 inch rainfall areas of the Adelaide Hills are being forced to sell out because of land tax. I can think of one instance to emphasise my point. A very efficient farmer in the electorate of my friend, the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter),  happens to have his 1200 acre holding in 5 separate titles. Each of the separate titles is attracting close to $3,000 State land tax. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  might well look surprised. This man has 5 separate titles for a total area of about 1200 to 1400 acres and is paying close to $3,000 a block. Because of the new method of bringing land tax to bear on land, he is being forced to sell. Surely this is a national problem. We have a State Government so stupid that it is destroying an economic area while we try federally to do everything we can to try to. bring viability to farming. That State Government is destroying that holding. The area is being subdivided into 180 acre blocks that are non-viable and the national government or some other agency using taxpayers' funds will have to come to the rescue of those people who are silly enough to purchase these blocks and subsidise them if these areas are to be maintained. People have been forced into this situation by poor State government policies. This is a matter which needs serious consideration. People should know that this sort of thing is happening. 
I turn now to another matter which is outside the area I have just discussed. I refer to a pyramid of country industries. I think of a typical cooperative cannery. I select a co-operative because it pays no income tax. Its taxation is entirely a matter for the State. This pyramid employs 100 people and is now paying about 200,000 in workers' compensation and more than $100,000 to the State of South Australia in payroll tax. South Australia is one of the 2 States in the Commonwealth levying the highest rate of payroll tax at this stage. This pyramid has 2 ancillary industries, one making cans and the other making cartons. All the workmen in the factory are paid. The cans are ordered and produced and the work is all paid for. The cartons are ordered, produced, manufactured and sold and the workmen are paid. The workmen- 100 of them- in this big pyramid are paid. The poor devil who produces the raw material on which the whole of this pyramid is based- it might well be not quite as bad at Leeton- has received 50 per cent of last year's Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee payment on his crop. In these days of increasing costs, how on earth can the producer, with his responsibility for great wealth in that local community, expect to exist and provide the raw material for a wasteful government dedicated to destroying industries in country areas and around good, worthwhile country towns? That is the second point I make tonight. I hope that some of the words might strike home to some of the spokesmen on the Opposition side. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill which is before the House today is a method of topping up the States' finances under the old system. Quite unbeknown to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  we now have a new philosophical approach to the whole problem of the financial structures of the States. I believe it is the Government's intention to provide the proper form of financial muscle to give effect to this new philosophical approach. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  pointed to one or two areas of difficulty, and I think that we can all acknowledge that some areas of difficulty are still remaining. The State Premiers and their Treasurers are still to negotiate on some of the fine points in relation to this new federation policy. The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that he had to tune off during the speech of the honourable member for Lilley. I expect that is a measure of his own capacity, because the honourable member for Lilley delivered a very fine speech and it was listened to by a bigger number of members than has listened to the speech of any other honourable member recently.  His  knowledge of these financial matters is, of course, great and that of the honourable member for Port Adelaide is nonexistent. 
Might I return to the financial problems of the States. We are fearful, as are many honourable members and other people within the States, that State governments have become over the years little more than expenditure agencies, little more than administrative bodies, in a way that Federation in this country never envisaged at all. Well before the last election the seed was germinating for this new idea within the Treasury Committee of my own Party. It was the only truly innovative policy espoused during the entire campaign of the last election. It is a new and innovative philosophical approach which, as I said, I think will have the financial muscle to make it practical. What is it founded upon? Basically speaking the funding of the States has been made up of their own forms of tax raising. In my own State there are heavy death duties; heavy land taxheavier than in the other States- registration fees for motor vehicles, driving licence fees and so on. 
But the main source of funds for the States, of course, has been, firstly, the reimbursement grants, for want of a better name- the return of income tax revenue to the States. It is largely a case of the people of those States paying their tax and some of it going back to them. Secondly, there are the section 96 grants. They are commonly termed the tagged grants. They are the sort of grants that have forced responsible people out of local government because the priority of expenditure is no longer left with them; all of the money is tagged. Very many competent people have left local government because of the lack of responsibility that they now see in that area. This scheme, as I shall explain as I go along, will tend to overcome that difficulty. 
Thirdly, there are the equalisation grants. I am not at all sure that my friend, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  did not perhaps a trifle tritely gloss over the importance to the smaller States of the equalisation grants. Nevertheless, he put forward his point of view with confidence and capacity. But equalisation grants are pretty important to the smaller States, as members of this House will know. So rather than have State governments become a cipher, an administrative body or an expenditure agency, we see the importance of returning the power of priority to the State governments, and indeed to local government, as a matter of the highest importance at this point in the history of this nation. 
A little while ago a distinguished audience was seated behind me. If the members of that audience had been here now I would have been inclined to ask: 'Why should the bureaucrats in Canberra decide where a WC or bidet should be situated in a country area of, say, Tasmania?' The whole system would become ludicrous. People throughout the world, not only in Australia have proved conclusively that they do not want all power centred in the ivory towers of the capital. There is a move- using the word 'democracy' in its broadest sense- amongst any democracy for people no matter where they be situated, to feel that they have the power to enter into the decision making process of that country. By the time we have put this policy into effect very big changes will have been necessary. I can think- not of course, in the electorate of Angas but, say, in the electorate of Grey- of all sorts of local government bodies largely composed of retired farmers which will suddenly have foisted on them the responsibility at local government level of deciding whether they have a creche in Oodnadatta, whether they attach a social worker to the district council of Oodnadatta. This will be an awful shock to some of the local governments in some of those areas, and of course it will be a very good shock because main street pressures will be brought to bear in aU those communities. People at the very grass root level will feel that they have a part to play in the decision making and in the priority of expenditure in their own areas. 
Members of the Opposition can argue their heads off or go black and blue but there is no refuting the fact that there is this form of belief in the mainstream of the Australian people today. The forces of democracy dictate, I think historically at this point, that the people wish and require to become part of the decision making process. During the last election campaign whenever I had the chance to put this new federation POliCY to areas in my electorate, people of all political colours were tremendously attracted by it. As my friend  Mr Grassby  used to say when he was a Minister and the member for Riverina: 'Statistics speak for themselves'. There is some merit in that. 
Let us look momentarily at some of the areas that still have to be negotiated because I think they are worth stopping to look at. We have not met as a Treasury committee since the last Par.liamnent We are about to. No doubt pools of resources, brains and experience will be brought to bear on this problem. There will be obvious problems in regard to national highways and road programs going forward. There will be problems if one State gets right out of kilter with another in its form of revenue raising- a matter to which the honourable member for Lilley so properly referred by pointing to the difficulties mentioned in the Grants Commission report. All of these problems have yet to be solved. 
I believe that this is a great policy which will attract the imagination of the people of 
Australia. I believe that members of the Opposition too, in due course, will have to get out on the hustings and explain more carefully to their areas what it means to them. For instance, it would be quite stupid if they ignored the obvious attraction of the Australian people to this sort of policy and did not describe to their local government areas, to their people involved in main street pressures for creches, for child care, for what have you, that these sorts of things will now have an ingredient of local government, an ingredient of the people making the decision and producing the pressure. 
When it is all boiled down- really this warrants a speech in itself- we must give more power back to the State governments. It is absurd that some of the decisions that have been taken by Federal governments- I am not by any means altogether blaming the Opposition when in government- and the priorities laid down by past governments in Canberra have almost emasculated many of the functions of the State governments. If we are to have State governments in the future- I hope that we always will have them- this is their chance to grab hold of the nettle. It is their chance to improve their quality in many cases and to try to attract people of real competence to their party structure in the States. Under this system not only local government but also State parliaments will have a more vital role to play in the checking of expenditure, where need be in some areas, and for added expenditure in other areas. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I thank you for the latitude you have given me in this debate on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill but I know that the wisdom that is part of your make-up acknowledges the fact that this matter of giving grants to the States is inherently bound up with the remarks on the new and innovative policy of this side in the political sphere. 
-Before I call the honourable member for Franklin I remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. I trust that the House will hear him in silence and wish him well. 
My question to the Minister for Primary Industry refers to the canned fruitindustry. Is the Minister aware that in my electorate over the weekend growers were unable to pay local government rates, and indeed marched or took tractors in a demonstration to the local government offices. Flowing from this state of affairs, can the Minister give any indication of how long the Industries Assistance Commission report into the agreement between the Federal Government, the States and the industry will take to be completed? Secondly, because the first part of the question refers to 1975 fruit prices, can he give any indication to help the thinking on the 1976 fruit prices in relation to the expected Australian Industry Development Corporation report on reconstruction of the canning fruit industry? 
-Order! The honourable member has now taken 7 minutes to reply to the previous  speaker,  and that is fair enough. The honourable member has spoken in the debate already. On this occasion he is speaking to the amendment. I invite him to look at it. From here on he should tie his remarks to the amendment. 
the Speech makes no acknowledgment of the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives; 
the Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there will not be a recurrence of the constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian parliamentary system and 
the proposals outlined in the Speech are so framed as to cause a major transfer of resources from middle and low income families to those on higher income levels.' 
I believe I would be in order if I were to deal with each point seriatum and to speak on each of those 3 points in turn. The first point is the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives. There can be little doubt that the people of Australia, including myself, always believed and were encouraged to believe by section 53 of the Constitution that money matters originated only in this House, that the other chamber, the Senate, could not alter those Bills, could not change them in any way at all but could send them back to this House with requests for amemdment. I know that many words are used in section 53. I do not presume to be a constitutional lawyer and I do not pretend to speak as one. I do not pretend to speak even as a bush lawyer. But I do say that the continuance of parliamentary democracy as we know it now, as we have known it for a number of years and as people in Britain have known it for many years, depends on what the average person believes the position to be. It has been believed by the people of Australia for a long time that the House of Representatives had pre-eminence in financial matters. I also believe that there is another fallacy abroad that the 
Prime Minister of this country can come only from the House of Representatives. 
Taking into account these things that have been taught in our schools and have been discussed in the community, a very dangerous situation occurred on 1 1 November and in the preceding weeks whereby the other chamber challenged the financial pre-eminence of this House and this House, through the action of some people for short term political gain, abdicated its position and left that pre-eminence hanging in the balance, probably lying with the Senate rather than with the House of Representatives. I have heard the argument put that one cannot draw a parallel between the House of Representatives in Australia and the House of Commons in Britain because the Parliament of Australia has as its House of review or upper House an elected chamber, whereas the British Parliament has an appointed house as its House of review. 
I wonder just how elected is the Senate, how elected are the 64 people who now make up that chamber? In a half Senate election there are 5 senators to be elected in each of the States. I do not think it could be denied by anybody that in a half Senate election the 2 principal political partiesthat is, the coalition and the Australian Labor Party- each nominates 2 people from each State to sit in that chamber. So 4 people are not elected from each State. Rather are they appointed by the Parties they are sent to represent. One could say the same thing in respect of the 2 Territories, where each senator will be appointed by the party he represents. So in a half Senate situation only 6 senators are elected. In a full chamber there are only 12 elected senators, the other 52 being appointed. So it is not true to say that the Senate is a truly elected House. There is a dissimilarity in those instances between the Senate and the House of Lords in Britain. 
It has been clearly established in Britain for many years that the financial transactions carried on within the Commons remain supreme; that those transactions are to be kept apart from the sovereign; that the monarch is to know nothing of the financial arrangements that take place in the House of Commons. To this day we still go through the practice of removing the mace from the table when we discuss money matters because the mace, an inanimate thing, is representative of the sovereign. We still go through the farce and the charade of placing the mace on the brackets under the table so that it cannot hear what we are talking about and carry tales to its leader. In the same way, we insist that the 

 Speaker leave the chair when we discuss matters in committee so that he cannot tout back to the monarch. That is a very brief history of what the House of Representatives is all about. We have inherited these traditions from the House of Commons. I must confess that I feel somewhat embarrassed speaking about traditions because I have never been known by my friends to be a traditionalist. I have never been thought of by them, or by many others, as a conservative; yet, I stand and argue the case for the traditions of this Parliament to be maintained in those areas where they are important. Those who I suppose by their very nature should be regarded as people who would preserve the traditions, who would maintain the status quo, who would hot move for any change, are those who have become the iconoclasts on this occasion. They have torn down those traditions. They have broken the pillars and this institution in very grave danger of tumbling around them. To believe, as they obviously believe, encouraged by the numbers of people they have in this chamber, that the overwhelming majority of the Australian people support them is to delude themselves. They should realise that more people voted for the Labor Party in the last election than voted for the Liberal Party. They should realise that even with both of their parties combined, they have about 53 per cent of the vote. With 53 per cent of the vote we have the hayseeds occupying seats to the aisle near which I sit. The vote obtained by the Labor Party in 1972 when it took office was somewhere just in excess of 50 per cent, yet we never got past the centre aisle of this chamber. So in that aspect there is no justice. 'Hear, hears' come from cocky 's corner, from those who survived on a political system that is unjust, unfair, slanted and heavily weighted their way. 
I return to the words of the amendment and the sentiments expressed therein. It is unfortunate that the Government will make no attempt -it has given no indication that it is going to make an attempt- to acknowledge the financial pre-eminence of this chamber. If it fails to do that, it is not only degrading this chamber, it is not only giving to the Senate a privilege and a right that that chamber does not enjoy by the Constitution; it is also bringing into question the whole purpose of a need for a Parliament in this country. They are not my words; they are the words of many people, the 42 per cent of the community which supported the Labor Party in its stance on this question- a very substantial section of the community by anyone's measurement. They are concerned about the farce that is carried on under the name of Parliament in this country. 
I now refer to the second part of the amendment to the effect that the Governor-General's Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the constitutional crisis. Either those on the other side believe that there was no constitutional crisis; either they believe that the GovernorGeneral at any time can willy-nilly dismiss the government of the day- a government properly elected, properly in office, never having acted illegally- or they must concede that there was a constitutional crisis that had to be resolved by the Governor-General. If they believe- from the words of my friends in the National Country Party, or whatever that party calls itself this week- that there was a constitutional crisis, it seems to me that they ought to set about doing something to correct that situation. 
I well remember during debates on this question before II November that reference was made to the fact that the Parliament consisted of 2 chambers. Honourable members kept saying that the Parliament was paramount, but the Parliament cannot meet as that sort of institution except under special circumstances. 
It can meet as a combined House- as a Parliament, if you like, rather than as 2 separate Houses- only after there has been a double dissolution. The Houses come back together, and if the question still cannot be resolved, provision is made under these circumstances for a joint sitting. One was held in 1974. If honourable members opposite are sincere about ensuring that crisis does not arise again, will they agree to support a proposition that there be a joint sitting of the Houses prior to an election. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for Bowman I remind the House that it is the honourable member's maiden speech. I hope he will be listened to with the usual attention and courtesy. 
-I think that the honourable member for Grey has a point. The honourable member for Macarthur has made his speech. I suggest that the honourable member try to contain himself, having made his speech, and listen with care and attention to the honourable member for Fraser. 
The other point to which I wish to refer briefly is related to the fact that honourable members opposite keep saying that the Government has accepted the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission report. It has done quite the opposite, of course. The IAC report says that the lifting of the charge should be only on the basis that certain other conditions are met. The report says that the main problems are those of credit and liquidity, and it mentions four other conditions concerning interest rates, carry-on finance, overdraft limits, and limits to be relaxed at the discretion of the rural reconstruction authorities. At the bottom of page 45 the report states: ... the meat export charge on beef be suspended, but with the provisos that the suspension of the charge: 
should not take precedence over other assistance recommended, 
The Government is doing quite the opposite of what is recommended in the Industries Assistance Commission report. So it is utter humbug for the Government to say that it is adopting that report. It is doing no such thing; it is doing just the opposite. Whereas the report says that it should do a certain thing last, the Government is doing it first and neglecting other things which would be of real benefit to the producers. It is picking out this measure because it helps the middle men, the friends of the Liberals, the big meat barons. 
The other matter to which I want to refer briefly is health standards. This is another plank or very strong policy point expressed in the Green Paper. The Green Paper states that the policy should be to ensure that health standards for local consumption are as high as those for the export market. It is an unfortunate fact of life that quite often our meat inspection for the domestic market indicate very high levels of salmonella infection which can have quite devastating effects on the consumer. We have standards for local consumption that are different from those which apply to the export market. I do not know why the people of Australia should have to accept a lower standard than do our customers in America or in Japan. I do not know whether our intestinal fortitude is such that we are supposed to be able to resist all these wogs. Why should we not have the same standards? That is what the Green Paper sets out. It states, that that is what we should aim to do. Why should we have a second rate product just because we do not have high inspection standards, just because inspection standards are imposed on us by export conditions and because we do not upgrade those conditions for our own domestic market? What I am saying is that we should have export standards and they have to be paid for by the user, but we should try to extend those standards over the whole of the market and not apply them just to the export market. If that were done, of course, we would avoid the problems to which our other friend referred, namely, that we have different standards. We have State standards and we have Commonwealth standards, and sometimes we have overlapping and duplication. This area concerns the health of the people and I think the Commonwealth should set standardshonourable members on the Government side would call this centralism- and maintain them on the same basis for both the local market and the export market. I see no reason why we should be expected to accept a lower standard. 
I repeat that we would support this proposition if we thought the benefit would go to the producers but there is nothing to indicate that they will get one cent out of the lifting of that charge. All that is happening is that the Government is penny-pinching. It is hitting little people, disadvantaged people, to try to save a few bob to reduce the Budget deficit but it hands out $8m to people who can get along very well without it. The producers certainly need it and should get it. There is no way in which they will get it under this proposition and on that ground the proposal should be rejected. 
-Order! I think the honourable member should take care not to reflect on the Chair. I advise him to go on with his speech. 
Australia needs a government of integrity and responsibility. Australia needs a government that really cares about people. 
What an excellent record the Government has already, with one Minister having resigned and awaiting a charge to be heard as to alleged malpractice in the election campaign! Do not talk to me about corrupt governments. Honourable members opposite should have a look in the mirror and have a look at themselves. Already in a very short period one Minister has resigned. No member of the Labor Party was ever charged and no wife of a member of the Labor Party got a $10,000 gift either. So, honourable members opposite should not talk about what went on. 
-Order! 1 think that the House - 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is permission granted? There being no objection, permission is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197603165_53_0.jpg"></graphic>

This has to be made good. Unless we are to go bankrupt we have to find foreign funds to meet this negative balance. If there is a negative balance the funds can be found either by borrowing or by selling the farm one paddock at a time; in other words, by permitting equity capital to come into the country. This is where I come back to the Loan Council. One of the very bad effects of the Financial Agreement- it has been a disastrous effect- is that it has stopped us from taking in debenture form the foreign currency which we needed in order to avoid going bankrupt and compelled us to take it in equity form. Looking over the decades, I think this was the most fundamental error of the Federal Treasury in all that time. I am afraid it is one matter which has never received sufficient attention. What Australia did during those decades was different from what other debtor countries did. During those early times Japan, for example, had a large negative balance. Japan financed that by debenture and not by equity. The consequence was that Japan did very well, thank you, because when prices rose to inflation the debt was not heavy to carry and it did not multiply itself as equity investment multiplies itself inside the borders with inflation and therefore becomes progressively heavier and heavier to carry. 
Japan was able to do this although Japan was very much less acceptable to the lending basins of that time than Australia could have been, because Japan had just come out of the war as an enemy country and we had come out of the war as an ally of the countries from which the main sources were available. Very foolishly, we did not do the thing which was much easier for us to do than for Japan but which Japan did very successfully. Japan, by reason of its laws and structure, took its foreign investment in the form of debenture whereas we took ours in the form of equity. Indeed, as I have said, it seems to me probably that over this period, although sometimes we raised loans overseas they were not as big as the sinking fund payments overseas plus the increase in indebtedness of foreign firms to Australian banks, because we allowed the foreign firms to mobilise the savings of the Australian people which should have been kept for the Australian entrepreneur. It was for this reason that for nearly all the time the Australian banking system has been in fetters because, by reason of the fact that this deficit was thus satisfied, the Australian entrepreneur could not, without disastrous inflation, be allowed free access to banking facilities. 
During most of these decades as it happened, and people will remember it, it was hard for the Australian entrepreneur to raise loans from the Australian banking system. There were all sorts of Treasury controls. Granted the initial error of the Treasury in taking the foreign investment in the form of equity rather than debenture, there was nothing else that the Treasury could do, because if the Treasury had allowed the Australian entrepreneur to have the same free access to the Australian banking system as the entrepreneur in America, for example, had to the American banking system then we would have had an inflationary situation in Australia. So granted its initial error, the Treasury had to do what it did. The consequences have been that over the decades the guts have been kicked out of the Australian entrepreneur. We say, for example: 'We cannot mobilise here the capital we need'. The Australian entrepreneur no longer has the initiative to go forward. This is one of the unhappy results of a wrongful policy which stems from the accident of the birth of the Loan Council at the time when the Niemeyer sanctimoniousness was at its height. 
We should have been thinking in different terms and I am quite certain that, because we had this negative balance on current account, we should have taken our foreign investment as Japan did so successfully in the form of debenture rather than equity. It is water under the bridge now but perhaps we should be turning our attention to the more specific thing of trying to avoid for the future the necessity of taking in foreign investment as an alternative to going bankrupt, because the Australian economy is surely capable of doing that. No longer are we entitled to say: 'We are such a raw undeveloped country'. We are not. By world standards we are one of the most highly developed economies in the world. It is no longer competent for us to say: 'We are taking in all these migrants. We need capital.' We are not taking in the migrants. It is no longer competent for us to say: 'We need this because of the great expansion of our population.' Our population growth is slowing down to stagnation and perhaps even to a negative growth- a decline- m 15 or 16 years' time when the present demographic momentum has spent itself. 
These are circumstances in which we, with the greatest  per capita  natural wealth in the world, are still unable to pay our way. We say that we need foreign capital because of our negative balance on current account. Last year it was $ 1 ,076m. This year it looks to be less. I hope that it will be less and I hope that under the policies of this Government it will become a good deal less and will perhaps even turn positive. But what are we going to do? Surely we can find from our own natural resources the exports or the substitutes for imports which will enable us to keep our international account in balance. If the imbalance continues then to a moderate extent- not to any great or dramatic extent- we should surely be borrowing abroad on debenture to prevent our being forced to borrow at equity, to sell one part of the farm after another. 
I am not saying, of course, that I would be against all types of foreign investment. I think that that would be wrong and it is certainly not the position I would take. There are times when foreign investment brings skills which we do not have. There are times when foreign investment may be correlated with the attaining of an export market which we would not get without it. In these and in other circumstances which I do not have time now to traverse, foreign investment even in equity form would be welcomed. But if we cannot cure this running sore of the negative balance, which is a disgrace to Australia, at any rate let us put the most comfortable poultice on it, and that will be debenture investment from abroad rather than equity investment. 
I have heard some stupid tirades since I have been in this House but what we have just heard is one of the most shallow attempts ever, to delve into antiquity in a futile effort by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to secure a cheap political point. Let me remind the honourable member of a few facts of life. It is his Party that coerces unionists who in the last election voted for the Fraser Government by the hordes. The honourable member insists on political levies from people who do not want to have to pay because they do not want to vote for this Party. 
-That is not tripe. The honourable member is the biggest dealer in tripe in this place. It is stupid for anyone to talk about political democracy in this place, particularly someone who adopts the point of view of ex-trade union secretaries from States like mine, and the honourable member for Port Adelaide should damned well recognise the fact. If he wants it, I have in my office proof going back over 15 years of political levies which were enforced by his Party against the wishes of trade unionists in this country and, in particular, in my State. So do not let the honourable member bring out that sort of tripe here. If that is not bad enough, let us look at the other side of the picture. When I first stood for the seat of Angas- and I would like honourable members to take note of this for it was many years ago- there were 7500 financial members of my Party in that electoral division. That is more than many States can produce in the way of financial membership, whether they be governed by my Party or the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member with the red tie, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who is interjecting, can carry on his tirades elsewhere. The issue is this: My party is not a dealer in big financial donations. Having 7500 financial members in one electoral division proves that we have a spread of support, and if the honourable member cannot get the same grass roots support within his own Party he should hang his head in shame and look at his efforts in years gone by when he was not so senile 
I address my question to the Treasurer and I remind him of his generous offer prior to the last federal election to meet with leaders of the wine and brandy industry after the new year primarily to discuss the subject of section 3 1 A stock valuations. Has the interchange of view that has occurred been useful? Has an inspection of the various views by different departments yet been completed? When will the Government be in a position to report on its findings? Finally, has or has not the delay been caused by the fact that other areas besides the prime problem of section 3 1 A stock valuationssuch as brandy- have been included in the discussions? 
While the honourable member for Robertson is pausing, I remind him that we are discussing the pros and cons of the formation of this Committee. I recognise his interest in the previous Committee, which he chaired. I think I have been very lenient. I think it would be helpful if he would periodically tie in his remarks to the subject we are debating. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
I have no squabble with that; I never have had. There has been some view expressed that we are a centralist party, that we want to control everything. That is a load of nonsense. There is a very clearly denned role for all levels of government in relation to road safety, as long as we recognise what the States can do, what the national government can do and what local government can do. Incidentally, local government has done damn all over the years in the area of road safety and it is appallingly ignorant of what is needed, particularly in relation to the designing of new communities in urban areas. Local government is abominably ignorant of what needs to be done and it has been the creator of some of the most horrible road hazards. I am looking at the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  because I know that he was a local government man and always lauds the virtues of local government. I can assure the House that in this area local government has been grossly deficient, mostly because of its inability to have the technical expertise available to it. 
Nevertheless, the area which I see primarily as a national responsibility- this is mentioned in our first report-is the collection of data. One of the deficiencies which I have found throughout my involvement in road safety has been the appalling lack of data to enable people to do proper research. We dealt with that matter at great length in our first report. The second thing, which the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  mentioned, is the very important area of safety design standards. There has been an enormous improvement in that area over the last 10 years. At times we hear cries from the industry that we are producing the best car. The other day I talked to  Dr Seiffert  who is the Chief Engineer of Volkswagen and who came to see me in Sydney during his recent visit from Germany. I said to him: 'Industry often says that we are doing the best we can, but what a difference there is from a safety design point of view between the car of today, 1976, and the car of 1966. They were time bombs. There is still room for enormous improvement, but compared to the car of 10 years ago the changes are immense. However you would have to line them up one beside the other to see that difference '. 
I believe that only a national government can do anything in that area, because we cannot have 6 States setting different safety standards. The industry itself wants only one standard. Our reports contain plenty of evidence of industry leaders saying: 'We want you to set a standard and we want it applicable to all the States'. Brian Inglis of the Ford Motor Company has said that his company is terrified about the pollution rules. South Australia has a rule different from that applying in New South Wales. The company has to produce a different car for each State because different pollution standards apply in the different States. That remark is not specifically related to road safety but it is in the same area. It is a terribly important point. Industry wants the one standard to apply in all States in this area. The only way that that can be done is at a national level by the Commonwealth Government. 
We want to stop the duplication that is going on in research. Somebody in Brisbane could be working on some aspect of a vehicle and some bloke in South Australia could be doing the same thing; they do not even know what is going on. Some areas of research are not being touched at all. That sort of thing has to be ended. One of the things that the Road Safety and Standards Authority could have done was to stop the duplication in research. 
I would like to conclude by getting back to the question of government involvement and any fear by the Liberal and Country Parties that we were a centralist government determined to control everything. I draw the attention of the House to the evidence given to us by Toyota. I do not have the exact words with me, but its representative said that the only way in which the people of Australia and the people of the rest of the world will get safer vehicles is for governments to set safety standards. Toyota's representative said that in a highly competitive industry, which the motor industry is, it cannot on its own spend $300 or $400-or maybe only $50; small amounts- on some aspects of road safety because if its competitors do not have to do the same thing it Will not remain competitive. The representatives of Toyota, which is one of the biggest companies in the world, said that the only way in which we will get safer vehicles- and we want them- is for governments to push the industry and keep on pushing it to make a safety car. We got a different sort of story from General 
Motors and, to a lesser extent, from the Ford Motor Company. But one big multinational company has come out and made that statement, and I only hope that the recommendations brought down by the Committee will get the support of the Government. 
Irrespective of political prejudices or party affiliations- I am sure that anyone else who was a member of the former Committee who speaks in this debate will agree with me- we achieved tremendous agreement on everything. There was never any matter on which we disagreed in our report. There was always 100 per cent unanimity. The great benefit of committees is that they enable us to sort out our differences and find a common area of agreement. We were able to do that. I only hope that when the new Committee makes recommendations the Government does not just treat them as a sop and a means of doing some flag waving about road safety. I hope that it does something about the recommendations and does not do what it has done in the past. I say to the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  who is trying to interject that my Government did an enormous amount. If the honourable member had been in the chamber earlier he would have heard what I had to say. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The agreement is, in all important substantial matters, along the lines of Australia's other modern double taxation agreements with the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Japan and West Germany. I mention also that the agreement is the same agreement the settlement of which by officials was announced by the former Treasurer on 21 October 1975. The agreement provides for a limit on the rate of tax which the country of source may impose on certain items of income derived by a resident of the other country. This feature applies generally to dividends, interest and royalties, with the limits of tax being 15 per cent on dividends and 10 per cent on interest and royalties. Certain types of income may be taxed in full by the country in which the income has its source. Income dealt with in this manner in the agreement includes income from real property, including income from the exploitation of natural resources, and income derived by public entertainers. Except in relation to some visits of short duration, income from employment may be taxed in full by the country in which the employment is exercised. Business profits are taxable in the country of source if they are attributable to a 'permanent establishment', that is, a substantial business presence, which the recipient has in that country. 
Other types of income may be taxed only by the country of residence of the recipient. Items falling within this category include shipping and aircraft profits derived from international operations, most pensions and annuities, and remuneration derived by teachers and professors during visits of up to 2 years duration to the other country. Other provisions in the agreement are in customary form. For example, there are provisions for exchange of information between the taxation authorities of the 2 countries, and procedures for the relief of double taxation arising where income may, under the agreement, be taxed by both countries. 
When the agreement has been given the force of law in both countries it will have effect as regards withholding tax as from 1 July 1975, and as regards tax by assessment from 1 July 1975 in Australia and from 1 January 1975 in the Netherlands. Before concluding, may I say that the Government is pleased that the negotiations with the Netherlands have culminated in this agreement. We take the view that it will be beneficial to Australia and will further promote the growth of harmonious relations between Australia and the Netherlands. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The discussion is now concluded. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197603180_33_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="098131197603180_34_3.jpg"></graphic>

I suppose that I cannot be surprised the the spokesman for the Labor Party has not seen the Australian Industry Development Corporation report of September last year, because frankly I have not seen it either. But if the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  thinks that the industry will want the Government to accept the second part of his amendment, I think he is sadly misculng. As a result of the introduction of the States Grants (Fruit Canneries) Bill 1976, it became apparent- I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will agree with what I am about to say- that the findings of the September 1975 AIDC report had become hopelessly out of date. A whole series of new statistics and new facts have had to be referred back by the Minister for Primary Industry to the AIDC for further report. I think that the industry would not be pleased to see that the Opposition spokesman, in part (b) of his amendment, says: the Government should consider immediately the AIDC report handed down in September 1975, . . . 
That is patently out of date and is patently absurd. I think it would not be the sort of course that would recommend itself either to me or to the industry as such. Maybe he would have a better chance of getting his own amendment through in this chamber if he updated it. In the current situation it is meaningless to the industry. I am sorry for the honourable member for 
Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who has taken on this shadow portfolio at such short notice. Obviously he has not had a chance to take in all the intricacies involved in the legion of problems facing the non-urban and country areas of Australia today. I thought he harped a bit too much on previous funding. He mentioned some of the reasons for that funding in his speech by pointing out that the European Economic Community countries which were big export markets in the past had now, by virtue of their own political action, their own protective measures, thrown the industry in this country into difficult circumstances. At that stage the Government was quite right in making compensatory payments for something which was not the fault of the Government on the one hand or of the growers on the other hand. An adjustment payment which was needed was made at that time. I do not think this really has much to do with the facts which are before the House at this time. 
This is an on-lending Bill to make payments indirectly to the co-operative canneries. When the Bill is passed it will enable the canneries to raise cash payments on the 1974-75 fruit. It will not involve this year's fruit, the harvest for which is almost completed. I shall deal with the matter of this year's payment later on when the Australian Industry Development Commission comes down with the additional information which was sought from it by the Minister. The industry is suffering grave  economic  difficulties at present, because the traditional banking institutions are unable, because of marketing difficulties, to find further finance. One ponders whether the industry or governments of the past have not been at fault in not recommending some form of interim payment which is equivalent to the interim payment to the dairy industry. This payment is struck at a conservative level. It gives a form of monthly payment to dairy farmers. This has never been the case in the canned fruit industry or, I think, in other fruit industries. 
The problem facing growers at this stage is such that once the reconstruction and rationalisation of the Industries Assistance Commission comes in we probably then ought to look at some method of forward payment to the growers. As I will explain later in my speech, the position is becoming patently absurd as far as the growers are concerned. I note that the previous  speaker  accused a previous Government of encouraging over-production. There was no real overproduction. Some time ago exports flowed freely to Great Britain, West Germany and, to a lesser extent, to other EEC countries, the cost of production was competitive. Today the problems of the industry are largely but not entirely induced by the cost of production of the product. In this situation the foremost thing one thinks of is that the canners are not efficient. I think there is room for added efficiency and for rationalisation so that a bigger throughput can occur. This will be argued very heavily in some areas but I believe there is some room for it. 
Recently I travelled through America. For the first time we now have to consider the fact that America's method of regulating and governing its economy is much more successful than ours. The cost of production of canned fruit today is round about 30 per cent lower in America than in Australia. I hope to be kind in my remarks but, quite frankly, the mismanagement of the economy over the last 3 years of government has so increased the cost of production that our exports are now not competitive on any market in the world. The poor grower receives his payment only after all the extra charges that are levied on the industry have been met. 
Let us look at one or two figures, because they might be of interest to growers if governments were to change in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland or Western Australia. In my electorate the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd, which is one of the beneficiaries- if that is the right word- of this legislation, now has to pay under the State Labor Government nearly double the workmen's compensation that it paid the previous year. In fact, on a work force of 100 or 120, building up to 750 during the canning season, it is now paying $235,000 in workmen's compensation. The Federal Government takes no company tax from it because it is a cooperative. The State Government levies $2 10,000 in payroll tax. 
Attached to this pyramid like a couple of big ears, one on each side, are 2 ancillary industries. One makes cans; the other makes cartons. The cans are ordered and paid for. The work force making them is paid at a very greatly increased level. The cartons are ordered and paid for. The work force making them is paid at a very greatly increased level. The 1 10 to 120 members of the permanent work force who form the main pyramid are paid at increased rates. In fact, I believe that one overtime shift on a Sunday recently cost Riverland in the region of $11,000. For the return gained it is patently absurd to continue running that extra shift. 
The charges for workmen's compensation and payroll tax in South Australia make it the highest cost State in Australia, whereas not many years ago it was the lowest. There is literally nothing left for the reason for this pyramid structure- the growers. If the Government of South Australia has, as it is reputed to have, a $40m surplus in its budgetary accounts, I think we should look again at the Bill. There are several points that are of absorbing interest to me. Clause 4 (Conditions) provides for payments by the Commonwealth to the States as set out in the Schedule, which honourable members will have seen already. The States will match these payments. In due course, when the funds flow through to the canneries, they will be able to make payments of greater than, say, 50 per cent of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee's 1974 prices. It is then a matter of the canneries making repayments to the States. If I were in charge of a cannery and my growers were getting very little, I would be working very hard on the State government concerned for some relaxation of the repayments. The States themselves deal directly with the Commonwealth. In this respect I note that clause 4(3) states: 
The conditions referred to in sub-section (2) shall provide for completion of the repayment by 30 June 1978, but may provide for extension of the time for completion of repayment in special circumstances. 
I can think of one or two instances which, if I were in charge of a co-operative, would amount to special circumstances. This gets back to one of the problems of this legislation and, if the Minister will forgive my saying so, of the Minister's second reading speech. It is not made plain to the growers in his speech or in the legislation that they will be able to expect, in due course, 85 per cent of the FISCC 1974-75 prices. 
Let us get back to what happened. Industry representatives came to the Minister very properly and very promptly after the change of government. Frankly, one of the problems we now face is that the previous Government was quite negligent in dealing with this situation. It had floated- I believe that no work had been done in the Department- a scheme very similar to the one we are now debating but based on a 70 per cent payment. Naturally, when the government changed, representatives of the industry approached the new Minister. I presume they said: 'Look here,  Mr Minister;  this is what the previous Government was going to do. We do not think it is enough, but will you please trot this small exercise up to Cabinet and see what it thinks of it'. The 70 per cent repayment was then agreed to by Cabinet and that proposition was put to the growers. The growers and other sections of the industry turned it down for reasons that are a little complex and which I will not elaborate. Then there was a second time around negotiation in which the State Government of Victoria in particular produced a very good and weighty argument to show that the higher payment was needed if country towns in that State were to exist. My own Government - 
I see. I do not know the innermost thoughts or actions of the honourable member. I will continue with my remarks. During the second time around negotiations, force, by way of proper deliberate argument, showed that the first time round negotiation 70 per cent repayment would not meet the circumstances. So the second time around negotiations proceeded. The conditions which emanated from those negotiations are governed, I believe, by what is stated in clause 4.( 1 ) which states: 
Payment of an amount to a State under this Act is subject to such conditions as the Minister, by instrument in writing, determines. 
I would like the Minister at the end of the debate to tell me about this because I am not convinced from what I have heard that there is such instrument in writing yet. But when the instrument in writing does appear and the epistle goes forth from the Department of Primary Industry or its Minister to the canneries, I expect and hope that one of the things that it will say is that although there was no change in the Federal donation and the State donation between the first time round and the second- the payment remains at 70 per cent and this I imagine is where the honourable member is at some slight disadvantagethe extra 15 per cent necessary to affect the 85 per cent return to the growers will be found by the canneries, largely due to the tax holiday, if I may roughly term it that way under which the first repayment time is increased from 6 months to 12 months. It was from that revolving fund, for want of a better phrase, within the canneries themselves that the 15 per cent additional to the original 70 per cent repayment is to be found. 
I will be very interested to hear the Minister's reply on this matter in due course because it is a clear understanding of growers that this second time around negotiation allowed for an 85 per cent payment on fruit in January 1975- a long time ago now- to be available to them. Let me return to the point I was making a few minutes ago. There is a certain amount of confusion about the matter. This condition is not set out in the Bill or in the Minister's second reading speech. I presume that the sub-clause which I read from the Bill will cover that situation. 
There is another reason why the industry has been in quite a deal of strife. It is not only the result of bad management by governments or huge increases in costs which have put the industry in an uncompetitive position. There is also the problem of exchange rates. I have not had a chance to show the Opposition spokesman on primary industry matters a table which I wish to incorporate in  Hansard.  He was speaking in the debate before me. The table is purely a comparison, month by month, of the exchange rates for the South African rand and the Israeli pound in relation to the Australian dollar. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I should also like to give my support to the Dried Vines Fruit Stabilisation Amendment Bill and its associated Bill, the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill. I will not describe, as the spokesman for the Labor Party, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has just done, the stabilisation scheme, which he did entirely accurately and which I think all of us who have debated this Bill for some time have also done. It has got its built-in protective measures, both for the Government on the one hand and for the growers on the other. The focal point of the stabilisation scheme is the annual base price. I think it is important for the House to remember that contrary to the Bill that we have just finished debating, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics makes an annual review of the annual base price for each variety of dried vine fruit on a seasonal basis and movements in grower cash costs are therefore taken into some form of account. That is the big difference. 
Yet, if we look at the Industries Assistance Commission report produced recently we find general acceptance by both this House and the Commission that the scheme tended to iron out the great fluctuations that occur. In any industry that is primarily or traditionally an export one, there violent fluctuation are ironed out although it has not done much really to lift the income of the producers. I rather felt that the figures that the honourable member for Blaxland just cited did not assess the fact that many dried fruit growers in my area, contrary to, say, Mildura in the electorate of Mallee are from fruit salad blocks. By this I mean that they are not 100 per cent dried fruit growers as was traditional in that area. I can remember Winton Turnbull in his annual debate on this matter, and I expect the position has not changed a great deal, although the member has representation now from that area. 
I point to that difference because it is all very well for the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  saying a little while ago that perhaps governments have poured good money after bad. It is a totally different ball game from this Bill to the one before and the only thing that I regret is that we have not got an industry leader today to compare with  Sir Eugene  Gorman who almost single-handedly forced an illogical group of exporters- unbelievably the Greeks, the Australians and the Turks- into the International Sultana Agreement. The very reason for the growers voting against the stabilisation scheme in the early 1970s was the fact that the International Sultana Agreement stuck and did away with the need for this type of legislation. After the international agreement fell apart for reasons that will be fairly obvious, bearing in mind the 3 parties to the agreement, the growers immediately went back to the Government and sought the re-introduction of the stabilisation scheme. The honourable member for Blaxland gave the historical dissertation of the pay-in or the payout over the 5 year periods for which this stabilisation scheme has applied. I ask honourable members to bear in mind that the Government in this case is carrying out the IAC recommendation to continue the scheme for the year 1976 until more rational, accurate and proper measures of reconstruction can be properly considered. 
In the case of currants and raisins, the home market demand, I believe, will not require any Government pay-in to the separate pools. The case of the sultana pool is markedly different. Honourable members will be aware that the gordo grape and the sultana grape are in the dual variety category. When there is a demand for wine grapes these varieties can be sold to winers with a lot less work by the grower. They can be put straight into the wine industry in bulk. This very fact has completely altered the pattern of production in the Riverland end of my electorate and, perhaps to a slightly lesser extent, in the electorate of Mallee. So today the local economy of the towns is not so much dependent on dried fruit. The economy depends more on the success of the wine industry insofar as that industry frequently uses sultana and gordo grapes for a wide variety of measures. One can trunk of the favourite wine of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the Fruity Gordo from Berry. One can think of the use made of the sultana grape in varieties of wine which are sold under labels from reisling to tokays 
Of course, sultana grapes are used also in spirit manufacture. The Labor Government so thrashed the brandy industry that it now does not represent a pool where one can put surplus grapes. This very year thousands of tons of grapes still do not have a home. In the past one would have turned those grapes, which in the old days would be largely doradillo, sultanas and gordos, into spirit and that spirit would have been used for fortification on the one hand and the production of brandy on the other hand. But thanks to the withdrawal of section 3 1 A by the Whitlam Government in the past and, the 213 per cent increase in excise on brandy in a space of 13 months, there is virtually no brandy industry left. Imports are soaring into this country at an increasing rate at a cost of production way below the Australian cost. The answer to the cost of production is rather as I suggested in the previous speech I made. Many of these country industries have been put in a completely uncompetitive position by the huge increase in costs which cannot be carried through to the export market. Even if there is a demand we are no longer in a competitive position to sell on export markets. That is the point that should be driven home in relation to this matter. 
The sultana pool this year will have different factors involved from those of the past. The South Australian Government has a price control structure on all grapes. I think from memory the price of sultanas was about $92 a ton in South Australia but they were selling interstate, in the areas of some of my colleagues, at a very much lower price. When it looked as though there would be a surplus of grapes, proprietary wineries in New South Wales, Victoria, and indeed, South Australia did not tend to take up the surplus sultanas produced in South Australia. They were able to buy very much more cheaply outside South Australia. In passing, I suggest that all States should look at some form of price fixation for grapes because the cost of grapes, frankly, is a very small element in the final cost of production of a gallon of wine, or whatever it might be, and it is absurd when one State fixes its price perhaps too high, as did South Australia, and over the border all firms take a competitive advantage- mild though it might be- by buying outside that State. 
That was the position about 3 months ago. Everyone was fearful that bigger quantities of sultanas than usual would be dried and would go into the sultana pool, which we are discussing here tonight, because of the surplus grape supplies not taken by the wine industry. In fact, quite late last year the consumers took a hand. They decided, I think probably for incorrect reasons, that dry white wines were better for executives' health than dry red wines. So all of a sudden the pendulum swung. This is an example of the difficulty facing growers of these sorts of fruits and horticultural products. All the sultanas were snatched up at any price and now in the grape growing industry generally, of which the sultana pool is an integral part, there is a surplus of dry red grapes. The surplus exists in shiraz, cabernet sauvignon and varieties that all growers were being encouraged to plant only a few years ago by the industry and by every expert in the land, if not by the Government. 
This again highlights the fact that planting grapes or fruit trees is not like planting a turnip or a Murphy. As the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  said, grapes are not an annual crop. They are at least a 5-year venture and preferably a 15-year one so that the grower can get some return for the cost of establishing his orchard. Anything that any honourable member can suggest will receive a hearty nod from me if he acknowledges the fact that it is not easy for growers of any fruit products to exist when new habits and trends emerge, sometimes one would feel almost in a whimsical fashion, about which the growers can do very little. 
I will finish my remarks at this point because I know that there are other members who would like to say a few words on this subject. There has been some bad news for the dried fruit industry in the last few weeks, emanating from the Sydney market where Turkish sultanas are selling at a price assessed to be well over $100 below the Australian price. One can take the view that the consumer therefore is in a position where he can profit by those lines being on the market. Normally I would be mildly inclined to this view, but this is not the time when any member of Parliament who wants populations to exist outside the metropolitan area can afford to take this purist view. I think it was the honourable member for Fraser who in the last debate compared slave conditions in some countries where the cost of production was very low with Australian conditions. If I am apt to blame the Australian Labor Party for the increased cost of production in Australia, I hope the House will forgive me. I have given an instance of grapes coming from another country where the cost of production is infinitely cheaper than it is in Australia. Whether or not protective barriers should be put up against Turkish sultanas I do not know. I just get back to the point I was on S minutes ago: I deeply regret the fact that I cannot see on the horizon a person such as  Sir Eugene  Gorman who can concoct an international sultana agreement that will stick. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.5)-The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  mentioned the problems concerning varying prices for fruit in different States. One must agree with his remarks that fruit which is being shipped over the border seems to be causing some problem in the dried vine fruits area. But I believe that one of the greatest problems in the dried vine fruits area is in regard to over-production and the lack of agreement with the States about new plantings. I feel sure that investigation of the history of the dried fruits industry would indicate that new plantings have caused greater over-production and problems than the problems indicated in the remarks made by the honourable member for Angas concerning the excise on brandy. This has been a bone of contention with the Australian Dried Fruits Association for a long time. At no time has the Association been able to obtain agreement between the States on new plantings. Until such time as the Association obtains this agreement, at times when the export market is not buoyant there will always be this trouble with over-production. 
I support the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Amendment Bill and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill to extend the dried fruits stabilisation scheme to cover the 1976 crop. Nevertheless, I point out that the extension for 1 year of the maximum payment of $23 a tonne, coupled with the tonnage limitation for qualification under the stabilisation scheme, leaves a lot to be desired and represents a blow to the growers who are expecting the Government to give them something more than token assistance. The Dried Vine Fruits Association made a submission to the Industries Assistance Commission asking for the maximum payment to be increased to $33 a tonne. It seems very contradictory to me for the present Government not to take into account the things that Government members are always mentioning, namely, the rate of inflation and the vastly increased cost of production. This is especially so when one remembers that when honourable members opposite were in Opposition assistance to the rural industries was one of their greatest cries. It appears to me that when honourable members opposite are on one side of the House they use one argument and when they move to the other side they use a different argument altogether. 
One might well ask: Has the present Government suddenly reversed the rate of inflation or has it found a way to reduce the vastly increased cost of production. If the Government has found a way to do this the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  never told us about it in his second reading speech. As a matter of fact, he indicated that the trend was in the opposite direction. I read from part of his speech as recorded on page 554 of House of Representatives  Hansard  of 4 March 1976: 
The IAC noted that while the scheme has historically had little impact on the stability of the growers' return, the international dried vine fruit market was likely to be oversupplied for 1976, while grower production costs are expected to increase further in 1 976. 
That is a clear indication that the Government does not expect the inflationary spiral or costs to be reduced in 1976 because the Minister said: . . . while the grower production costs are expected to increase in 1976. 
The Government's decision not to raise the stabilisation price was a severe blow to.the industry and it has placed the burden back on the grower while everyone else is receiving increases in income. It must be remembered that even during the last 12 months fruit picking costs have risen by about 25 per cent. This is not the fault of the grower. In comparison with other occupations the occupation of fruit picker is not highly paid. The work is very arduous. Very often the grower finds it difficult to obtain pickers. During years when there are adverse seasons or when it rains, the size of the bunches of grapes is reduced and it is extremely difficult for the contract pickers to get a decent wage. This again, of course, makes it difficult for the growers to obtain fruit pickers. In addition, the grower has to meet higher packing and freight rates, plus an unusual increase in dip materials, to say nothing of the increases in fuel, tyre repairs, spray, water rates and shire rates. In fact every cost in connection with living on a fruit block and producing fruit has risen. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics figures show that since 1971 labour cost has increased by 87.6 per cent; farm cost for plant by 57.74 per cent; and farm capital by 83.2 1 per cent. The cost of production on which the stabilisation plan is based is in 2 sections, namely cash cost and constant cost. Whereas the cash costs are indexed forward each year according to the movement in the particular item, the so-called constant cost has remained unchanged at $119.88. Yet the cash cost has risen from $153.11 in 1971 to $283.04 in 1975. If the so-called constant cost had been indexed one would have expected it to rise at about the same rate. The Australian Dried Fruits Association's journal of February 1976 claims that this $119.88 would have risen to $2 1 1.35 per tonne. We have not heard any argument against these figures put out by the growers' representatives. It is hard to understand how an argument could be put against them. 
Why should the owner-operator allowance remain constant at $62.15 from 1971 to 1976? How can depreciation remain constant at $36.54 from 1971 to 1976? How can the interest on farm capital remain at $2 1 .20 from 1 97 1 to 1 976? This amount of money would not even pay the interest on a rusty push bike. I believe that some of these things are worth mentioning; otherwise the House could get the impression that the dried fruit industry is seeking a handout at the expense of the taxpayer. 
Although the Minister has said that the dried vine fruit stabilisation scheme provides for the establishment of an annual base price calculated each year according to the movement in the growers' cash cost as assessed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, it is hard to understand how the arrangement is applied on this occasion. When one takes into consideration the report of the Industries Assistance Commission that the dried vine fruit markets will be over-supplied in 1976 and the fact that growers' costs are expected to increase further one can realise that the future of the industry does not look very rosy. In addition, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said there is little doubt that considerable adjustment will be necessary in the next few seasons and that these adjustments will have regional implications. I believe that if the industry had more information on the form that these considerable adjustments would take and which regions would be implicated, a lot of worry would be taken away from the grower. All this statement has done is to leave them up in the air and create further uncertainty in the industry. 
The dried fruit grower is not in the financial predicament he is in at present through his own fault. He has had to face adverse seasons in 1 969, 1971, 1973 and 1974-in fact 4 seasons out of the last seven. These crop losses have placed a severe financial stress on the industry which has been only partly offset by the higher prices in the last 2 seasons. The dried fruit industry was fully conscious of the effect of these adverse seasons because in the Australian Dried Fruits Control 
Board's submission to the Industries Assistance Commission, which is recorded at page 10 of its 5 1 st annual report, it referred to: 
The recommendation by the Board that the Commission enquire fully into the Federal Raisin Insurance Programme for Dried Fruit Producers in California so that it may be able to recommend to the Australian Government the establishment of a rain insurance programme appropriate to the Australian Dried Vine Fruits Industry. 
The Board considered that if the industry had had suitable insurance during those adverse seasons it would not be in the financial predicament that it is in today. Further, it made a recommendation that consideration be given to the establishment of a food bank throughout the world in strategic centres, together with the provision of suitable transport and distribution facilities. This is another thing that is causing a great deal of problems for the Australian dried fruit growers because they have a fluctuating production level. The situation would be improved if they could have some form of storage from which they could supply their markets. Unfortunately they often have had to cut off supply to their markets. So that they could supply the bigger markets, they have had to drop other markets. With some kind of a world food bank this problem could be overcome. 
The Australian dried fruit producer is not asking for handouts at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. The producers' representatives have often pointed out that stabilisation is not subsidisation. It should be remembered that during the first years of the stabilisation plan- 1964 to 1968- no contribution was made to the various funds by the Australian Government. The Australian dried fruit industry is the third vine producing country in the world, giving employment to thousands of Australians. During this period they have paid millions of dollars into the State and Federal Government treasuries. Also they employ 5500 dried vine fruit producers as well as some 70 000 people who depend on the industry. Under the present plan the Australian Government contributed only $ 1.48m to the fund in 1971 and 1972. As the honourable member for Angas said, it is expected that they will have to contribute more in 1976. However, I believe that the industry itself has proved that it can be viable if it gets the right assistance at the right time. I ask the Government to give further consideration to lifting the maximum price payable. 
-I did not think they were very successful in their attempts. I did not take much notice. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197603235_26_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="098131197603235_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

Prime Minister, speaking in February at the Brisbane Press Club, said: 
Let me emphasise that restraint on the pan of Government does not mean doing less than we can in the present. It means maximising our present gains, without jeopardising our potential for the future. It means balancing the present against the future. 
I am sure he felt that he had made a great revelation for the people at the Brisbane Press Club. But he said nothing- absolutely nothing. 
And finally, among these crucial issues, is the question of whether we, as a people, can find a renewed faith and commitment to our capacity to provide a decent life for every person while- at the same time- encouraging the very best that the Australian people can offer. Australia is changing. The world is changing. 

 Mr Claude Forell, a columnist, I do not know him- made the following comments in respect of Fraser in the Melbourne  Age; 
But I cannot conceive anything less likely to inspire the Australian people to 'a new idealism' than . . . exhortation by the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser. 
Fraser the politician with a taste for power and the touch Of privilege we have come to know full well, but Fraser in the guise of 'a true idealist' is rather hard to take. 
I completely agree with that.  Mr Forell  went on to state: 
Even if we disregard the . . . question of political morality,  Mr Fraser's  appeal for restraint and self-sacrifice sounds more than a little incongruous. 
What financial hardships, what personal handicaps, what social injustices has this man of property and position ever had to endure or overcome in his comfortable life? 
Claude Forell who was critical of the last Labor Government makes reference to statements by Fraser about the need for the people of Australia to contribute to the cost of ideals, to make sacrifices, to put their shoulders to the wheel, to tighten their belts and similar platitudes. The article concludes: 
Are the aged, the poor, the jobless, the ill, the abandoned, the deprived and the handicapped to stand aside so that the smart, the ambitious, the influential and the well endowed may flourish in the land? 
For all the faults of the Whitlam Government, two vital threads ran, albeit imperfectly and inconsistently, through the fabric of its policy program: that welfare spending Should be based on need and that the nation's resources should be used as efficiently and beneficially as possible in the community's interest. 
These themes are barely perceptible in the Fraser Government's social philosophy and economic strategy. We are not witnessing the end of a ' handout mentality'; only the class of recipients is about to change. 
That is the important point. The class of recipients is about to change as far as the handout mentality is concerned. The article continues: 
We have not been told what the new Government regards as 'essential' public spending. We have seen no plan to eliminate 'genuine' poverty. We have no assurances that the Government even recognises the necessity to restructure Australian primary and secondary industries. 
All we have had this New Year is the promised satisfaction of the costly demands of some powerful vested interests and a couple of lectures on the virtues of austerity and idealism for the rest of us. 
Until we have evidence to the contrary, the theme of Fraserism would seem to be: 'Unto those who have shall be given more; those who have not shall be driven to toil or want.' 
I suppose honourable members on this side of the House should not be astounded at the Opposition's attitude to one of the two Bills now before the House. All of us can remember the present Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  introducing a Bill when we were on the Opposition side to restore the superphosphate subsidy to Australia's rural industries. To the eternal shame of people like the previous honourable member for Wilmot the then Government voted against that measure. Since that time a report by the Industries Assistance Commission, which has been mentioned already in this debate but upon which I will not elaborate too much, recommended in, I think, September 1975 that the superphosphate bounty be restored. There were opposing views, such as the evidence of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to the full IAC. Later on in this speech I intend to mention one or two of those arguments with which I personally cannot agree. 
This morning I spoke to Professor Donald of the Waite Agricultural Research Institute because I remembered receiving a letter from him on this topic some 2 years ago. I no longer have the letter and I wanted to make sure I remembered the substance of it. The following information from Professor Donald might well be useful to the House in considering this matter. I hope it will convince the vast majority of honourable members, no matter what side of the political fence they are on, that there is a need for us to pass both these measures this afternoon. 
First of all I want to refer to the technical aspect of this problem. Of all the continents in the world the one continent that is completely deficient or almost completely deficient, like the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  of superphosphate is Australia. No other continent is so deficient in phosphates. That is a technical aspect which should be taken into account by all honourable members. If we are not to be parochial, if we look at Australian farms and do not give a damn whether we are considering 20 farmers, 20 000 farmers or 2 million farmers, there is no question that in this continent every incentive should be given to improving the health of our soil. For the sake of future generations every incentive should be provided in order to replace this deficiency. 
Let us consider the culture that has grown up in Australia and that primarily has been responsible for the Australian rural community being able to meet the enormous freight disadvantages and the enormous cost disadvantages in terms of input, with a fairly highly protected manufacturing sector in this country, and still compete over the years on the export market. What is the principal reason for this? It is the culture we discovered and adopted, something in which the Waite Agricultural Research Institute in my own State of South Australia has played a very big part. I refer to the practice of growing legumes, such as subterranean clover, in the southern half of Australia and other legumes in the northern part of Australia in order to put nitrogen into the soil. How valuable is this to the interests of the nation? Upon this question hangs the attitude that honourable members should take in this debate. 
It has been assessed that as of 3 years ago the amount of nitrogen replaced over the years by legumes in, principally, the southern areas of Australia has been worth $200m per annum to the nation at prices current at that time. That was the value three or four years ago of nitrogen fixed by the use of legumes in our agricultural culture. That culture has developed so that this country has been able to export competitively to other countries. We are not playing with a sum of money of anything like that amount today. We are playing with a very much smaller sum. 
In the 10 years from 1940 to 1950 our average production of wheat worked out at 363 kilograms per hectare. In the 10 years from 1960 to 1970 the average yield was 1230 kilograms. This increase was due not only to the use of superphosphate but also to other factors such as improved varieties of wheat. However, the biggest single factor was the lay rotation of pastures, grasses and cropping. It gave a cheap source of nitrogen which made those crops grow and made those crops yield. I repeat those figures: By comparison, in the 1940s, the average production per hectare was 363 kilograms and during the 1960s it was 1230 kilograms. Now, anyone who quibbles about the use of the superphosphate bounty as an incentive, to encourage growers in the national interest to care for their soil, to care for the heritage that is Australia, I think quite frankly wants his head read. 
I suppose that one can argue whether this is the proper method to adopt or indeed whether better methods can be adopted. From my experience on the land in years gone by I would doubt whether one can argue that this is so. But I am sure that honourable members opposite will so argue. I am sure that after lunch honourable members opposite will give all sorts of erudite views, heavy with emotion, not objective, and try to cash in, in the usual Labor Party method, in their pretence of dealing objectively with the Bill. In my view, it is very rarely that we have seen an objective attempt by them. I am sure that we will hear about big farms. Honourable members opposite will forget that 50 per cent of the farmers of Australia are now heavily in debt. I am quite sure that we will hear this. I am sure, because we can forecast their view, that they will continue to lose their own people who have any rural ingredient in their seats. It is not for me to say who was the best rural brain in the Opposition but many honourable members will realise to whom I am referring. The Opposition lost that honourable member and that seat- and it is not a seat in Queensland either- because of their own boneheaded obstinacy. They refuse to look facts in the face and are carried away by their own emotional hangups. 
Let us have a look at some of the hangups. First, the majority of farmers are heavily in debt because of the previous 3 years under a Labor Government and that Government's cheap attempt to buy political votes from city voters. The Labor Government thought it could get a reaction. The people of Australia are slightly more awake to this divide and rule mentality than the Labor Party reckoned on. Their hangup does not allow them to see the need of farmers to make a profit so that investment will continue to flow into rural areas so that plant can be updated, so that fanners will have some chance of dealing with the increased input costs- labour, plant, superphosphate and everything else. Their hangup does not allow them to see the need for a national, not a parochial, look at the problem. The fact that tariff compensation in some form will probably be needed in the future in order to allow exports in this area- a fact dealt with in their own Green Paper- has never been dealt with or seriously considered by members of the Labor Party. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard 2  tables which I have already shown to the Opposition spokesman on the front bench, dealing with currency changes overseas and the differentiations in input costs. 
-Order! I suggest that in the last  2Vi  minutes available to the honourable member he return to the matter before the House. 
It is significant, I believe- the people of the rural parts of Australia should be aware of this and should be grateful for the fact- that having first weeded out those obvious and important extravagances that were perpetrated by the former Administration, the Government, the Cabinet, then turned its attention to trying to do something for those areas of Australia most in need. I have no doubt whatsoever that this legislation will result in great benefit flowing to most of the people who are involved in the rural community and in the primary industries of Australia. There is no doubt that it will also be of benefit in terms of the national estate and in terms of the heritage of this country. I believe that those honourable members who argue in this place about overproduction are bringing forward false arguments. The way to solve these problems is not by cutting back on production, not by not using fertiliser, not by killing off herds, and not by doing things of that nature. What we in Australia have to do is to accept the challenge that we must find and develop markets for our produce and our products; and that is what we are about. We have to see that that is done because that is the answer. As a nation we have to utilise to the fullest what God had given us. We have got to produce as much as we can in the interests of the world, bearing in mind that literally millions of people are starving. 
The introduction of the superphosphate bounty will help Australia and assist its producers in fulfilling Australia's potential as an agriculture producing nation. It is then the responsibility of the Government to go out and sell that produce- 1 do not accept the argument that because there is over-production in some areas we should cut out these benefits. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member should not comment on a debate that took place in the House earlier in the day. 
The other point I wish to make tonight concerns a warning in an article published in the Melbourne  Herald.  The article was written by Alexander Solzhenitsyn. He warned that the West is doomed. He says that the West is blinding itself to growing Soviet strength and that there now seemed little hope of avoiding global catastrophe. My friends in the Opposition will rise very quickly to point out that I am now to be branded a reactionary and that all of a sudden I have decided to resurrect the communist bogey. Well, if that tag is to be given to me- if I am a reactionary because I point out this growing menace- I wear it with pride. I only wish that honourable members opposite would declare themselves now so that I can declare them to the people of Australia, because it is long past the time that we listened - 
-Order! Would honourable members in the National Country Party corner keep their conversation down? I am having difficulty in hearing the honourable member for Corio. 
I do not suppose that I will be the first member to congratulate the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  personally, but I do so from my present position and point out that there are many of his remarks with which members of this House will find themselves in agreement. I am thinking, for instance, of the words of my predecessor in the seat of Angas,  Sir Alec  Downer, who has travelled the world for many years now saying that Canberra is the finest city of its type in the world. He says that with great sincerity. There are many ways in which I support that very statement. I am sure that the honourable member for Canberra struck a chord with many people who have travelled overseas when he spoke of the beauty and the many desirable features of Canberra. 

 Mr Speaker, although I had the opportunity to do so on another occasion, with the wisdom of hindsight I would like to congratulate you very much on the marvellous job that you have done in this House as our  Speaker.  I regard your efforts and your competence very highly indeed. I think you have proved to the House that you will be a great  Speaker  who inspires confidence and has the support of the House in general. I would like to go on record as saying that. As your job keeps you so busy,  Mr Speaker,  I have found myself in many ways closer than ever to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He is also a marvellous man to work with. I think that his experience is very greatly valued by honourable members on both sides of the House. It should be remembered that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is on record as making a particularly glowing reference on another occasion to the honourable member for Lyne that will be a wonderful safeguard for him if times become troublesome. 
In speaking to the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of the Governor-General I wish to comment briefly on some of the matters that have been raised in the debate.- 1 refer, firstly, to the remarks of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who is now present in the House and who recently gave to the House a most incredible dissertation on his grave fears about the Governor-General being the chief of the armed forces in Australia. I do not know whether the honourable member for Canberra is correct in saying that the Opposition is trying to take the heat off its own position by finding some fall-guy whom it can attack, but I do know that there are many checks and balances in regard to the Governor-General being the chief of the armed forces. I am only surprised at the naivety of the honourable member for Chifley in believing it literally. If the bugle went tomorrow and the Governor-General said 'Turn out on parade', I do not know whether the honourable member would take bis hands out of his pockets. I strongly suspect that he would not. I am pointing up this matter because I really was very surprised indeed to hear the honourable member for Chifley draw the inferences that he drew. 
-He does go into orbit on occasions. The honourable member set up his own target and then proceeded to argue in relation to it. However, I suppose that we can forgive him for that. From my own point of view, I have had the very greatest of pleasure in asking the Governor-General to attend 2 functions in my electorate in the next 9 months. I hope that he will accept my invitations. I know that he will be welcome in the electorate of Angas- and that is the way it should be. Party politics is one thing, but a deliberate attempt to drag down the authority of our own Constitution is another. I have not enjoyed some of the remarks that I have heard during this debate. I mention an exception. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  dealt with the subject in what I regarded as a proper manner. He drew the political side of the picture delightfully and as a matter of taste, which is what one would expect the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to do. Not once in his remarks was he derogatory of the Governor-General, but he did point up the political implications of the decision that was made, as indeed is his right. In passing I would like to comment in that way. I was sitting in the chair when he made his speech and I for one thought that he handled the position very properly and correctly. 
The Government finds itself in a somewhat peculiar position at this stage. The House will remember back to October when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  put forward his economic package, his economic policy. Of course, at that time he was utterly correct. In fact, the electorate at large, which is not unimportant, has taken the same view as those who followed carefully the then Leader of the Opposition 's economic package. I will not go over the various points he made, except to say that all of the points he made then are still part of our economic policy. Others have been added to it, but fundamentally it was that speech at that time that set the policy and gave the people of Australia the opportunity to strike a judgment between the two opposing political groups that was all-important. Of course, the then Opposition could not appreciate fully the fact that the Hayden Budget would be the tragedy that it has turned out to be. This unquestionably has produced areas of difficulty for the present Government. 
Let me go over some of the problems that we have discerned since that day. There is a problem that has not even emerged statistically yet; that is, the awful problem facing rural areas. In fact, I am somewhat appalled by the fact that the available figures do not mirror the gut reaction I get from many of those areas. We are headed for a period when those rural areas and their local economies are in some instances about to experience real strife. Because there is usually one section of the rural community that is doing fairly well while others are not, perhaps I can exclude some of the wheat areas and the wheat towns. By and large, they are better off today than many other sectors of the Australian economy, but they are the glorious exception. 
I have very real fear and a feeling of foreboding when I look at the economic situation of rural regions in relation to industries that effect people such as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  and myself. I am referring specifically to the horticultural industries. It is no secret that the dried fruits industry has more or less disappeared in many ways over the years. Most of the grape varieties that were used for dried fruit have been snaffled up by the wine industry when it has been suitable for it to do so. We have seen in this House recently the need to introduce a grants Bill for loans to the canning industry. The canning industry, of course, is in very big trouble. I will come back to that. We are now faced with problems in the fruit juice industry. Imported citrus concentrate is taking up perhaps 30 per cent of the total sales in Australia. We are now running into problems in terms of decreasing numbers of case fruits in the citrus fruit industry that can be sold on the Australian market. We are running into problems in the vegetable industry and we are running into all sorts of problems in other areas such as the beef industry. It is no secret to the House that the beef industry, for instance, is in terrible trouble and, in spite of the optimistic tone that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  took at question time today, frankly it looks to me as though the announcement from the United States of America today will produce a lesser export component to the American market than on previous occasions. All of these are very real problems. One of the reasons that they are so real, if I can harken back to it once again, is this matter of the Hayden Budget and what it now transpires is happening to the Australian community. I said that when we came to government we found our position to be infinitely worse than we suspected it to be. So it is. 
There was nobody at the table on the Opposition side previously for me to ask for permission to incorporate in  Hansard  one or two documents. May I seek the permission of the Opposition to have incorporated in  Hansard  the figures on the Australian Government Budget receipts from 1964 to 1976 and a table showing the Budget deficit as a proportion of the gross national product? 
-Order! The honourable member for Petrie is due to speak in this debate. He might save some of his comments until he makes his own speech and allow the honourable member to continue his speech in an orderly fashion. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member has not got the floor at this stage. 
What is more, I am quite prepared to say that I do not believe it. Having said that, I should like to get on with the main part of my speech because we are dealing with the standard of living of a great number of people in Australia. Some people imagine that they are talking about one or two multi-national companies. Certainly they are talking about 2 very important companies. One is General Motors-Holden's which employs in my area, with International Harvester, 4500 people. Add to that the list of all the component companies- the tyre manufacturing industry, Joseph Lucas (Australia) Pty Ltd, Video Instruments, Borg-Warner, United Bearings, Imperial Chemical Industries, the glass industry, Huckson's Diecastings. and Wilmot Breeden. I would hesitate to calculate the number of people whose jobs we are discussing tonight. I am absolutely shattered to think that the members of the Labor Party and the trade unions do not have a single member present on their benches.  ( Quorum formed) 
I realise that there are now many people on the Opposition benches who are interested in a major industry which affects the future of Australia. I am glad that they have returned to the chamber. I see that there are only 3 Opposition members present but more will come in in a moment. I should like to base my observations today firstly on a telephone conversation with  Mr Halfpenny,  the Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and  Mr Boswell,  an organiser of the Australasian Society of Engineers who organises union work in the Dandenong area. I am not offering this House or the nation idle observations. I have spent considerable time in discussing the whole of the motor industry with the directors of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd,  Mr Teal  and his co-directors and also  Mr Stan  Chapman, director of International Harvester Australia Ltd. In passing I should like to acknowledge the help I have received from  Senator Cotton  and  Mr Woods  and  Mr McMahon  of his Department. 
I should like to make it quite clear that the majority of the economists in the world say that if they are examining the state of any nation, they take the motor industry as an indicator. I think the attendance of the Opposition here tonight is a disgrace and a discourtesy to anybody who works in the motor industry. I found last night's debate somewhat depressing. It was somewhat like a funeral parlour at some moments, ready to promote the demise of our beloved Australian motor industry. There were certain intellectual tears from the Lady Balaclava and Lady Mavis Wakefield who advised us that we should not be prepared to accept the will and testament designed by  Senator Cotton, Mr Woods  and  Mr McMahon  but that we should all be free traders like ladies of easy virtue. I do not accept this in the motor industry. I must admit that I stand for the protection of the motor industry and for all those who work in it. If I take a pragmatic view, I hope the House will excuse me&gt; I believe that the trade unions and the directors of the motor industry realise that our costs of production are now far too high and are our real worry. 
Let me deal with the basic facts of life in the motor industry. The Australian domestic market is concentrated in Victoria and New South Wales. It can take up to only 600 000 cars in any one year. That is a minute market compared with the rest of the world, dealing with the motor industry. So we are dealing with a very small market indeed. The union leaders are therefore perfectly correct and also the  speaker  from the Opposition is correct when they say that the Government is correct to try to rationalise the motor industry but it must be very careful before it starts inviting other motor manufacturers to enter the market. I agree with the unions on this point because it is open to question whether it is possible to keep full employment for everybody if more motor manufacturers try to enter a field which is already diminishing. The motor manufacturing directors agree with me on this as well. 
Tonight I should like to take a short look at the major motor manufacturing company- General Motors-Holden's- which, of course, is an international company. It operates in Dandenong. I am always surprised that South Australia never wants to mention the work that GMH does in South Australia. What is the reason for South Australia failing to mention GMH every time in debate? South Australia does not want to tell the nation that GMH is the biggest employer in that area and that its work force is 10 000 at both Woodville and Elizabeth. What is wrong with that? May I put this as well: Without the pressings that come from South Australia, we certainly could not make much progress in Victoria. Let us deal now with the motor cars produced by GMH last year. The company's total production was 190 447 out of which about 32 000 were exported. It was only through the stupidity of the Labor Party which cancelled the export incentive that all of that export work was almost ruined. The company used the export incentive money in order to enter the foreign market and this they now cannot do successfully. 
Let us look at what GMH will be paying out to its component industries this year throughout 
Australia. GMH will spend $3 50m on components and material. The Australian component industry will have the greatest possible share. In Australia alone 24 000 people are employed by GMH whose workers receive in wages $250m. I was surprised when I heard this figure: Last year GMH paid the Government $25. 6m by way of sales tax. This therefore now makes Australia the highest sales tax payer on motor vehicles in the world. Then I want to deal with the question of unemployment. What is the worry of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)? 
-Order! The honourable member will address the Chair. 
I should like to deal now with the question of International Harvester. International Harvester is a company which controls an asset of $34m in Australia and in Holt alone has a $ 10.5m plant. At the present moment it is working at only 65 per cent of its capacity. Quite regardless of that, it has put on an extra assembly line because it trusts and believes that the present report on the motor industry will help the nation. What, in fact, is the real problem of the motor truck industry? I feel that the tariff arrangements for it- I agree with the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in this regard- are far too low. I do not see how Kenworth Motor Trucks Pty Ltd and other companies will be able to hold thenpercentage of the market. When I say 'hold their percentage of the market' I mean hold in employment the thousands of people dependent upon them unless this matter is looked at. 
When I consider the whole problem of sales tax it occurs to me that it ought to be possible in the Budget or in the future for the Treasurer to consider using sales tax in some way to assist the motor manufacturing companies in Australia whose Australian motor components are of about 85 to 90 per cent? One of the good things that had been mentioned by the industrial leaders and the unions is the suggestion that sales tax be varied to assist the motor industry? 
In conclusion I have one thing only to add. I think it is clear that the Australian motor industry and the motor assembly industry can have a sound future based on goodwill and cooperation and a desire to help the Australian consumer. In this the Australian trade union organisation, facing the closing half of this century, will be completely responsible for the employment of its members in that industry. The unions have to take exceptional care to be certain that their policies within the industry are in the interests of the Australian nation and all those who work in, belong to and take part in the motor industry of the nation. 
-Order! The Deputy Leader of the Opposition's time has expired. 
-Before I call the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  might I just give a little bit of advice to the House. It is not in order in this House for any honourable member to refer to another honourable member by words such as 'the bruiser' or 'the strangler'. The form in this House is to refer to any honourable member by his electorate. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! Will the honourable member explain to me why he is on his feet? 
-I take it that the honourable member is seconding the motion? 
That the question be now put. 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
Question put- 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The following Bills were returned from the Senate without amendment or requests: 
Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill 1 976. 
Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1 976. 
Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill 1976. 
-I advise the honourable member that he cannot refer to what are termed in the Standing Orders as 'friendly countries' in too dire terms. I am not suggesting that he should withdraw his remarks; I just warn him to watch the adjectives he uses in this regard. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  hamming it up in the House and pointing the finger at the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  does not do anything at all for the Timorese.  His  Government was in power when the Indonesians invaded East Timor on 7 December, not the Labor Government, so the present Government must take some responsibility. Even at this late hour I think the Government could still play a positive role in doing something real for the Timorese, not just supporting pious resolutions. I suggest that the Government could lean on Indonesia by threatening to cut its aid, hot increasing it as the Government has done. The Government could and should grant a radio licence to the Fretilin people in Darwin so that they can communicate with their forces. I think we should adopt a stronger role at the United Nations to try to persuade the U.N. to put a peacekeeping force into the field in East Timor and not just carry pious resolutions. The Government could take a strong stand and assist in the plans of the trade union movement to send aid to East Timor by guaranteeing safe passage. We should insist on a genuine act of self-determination, not the sort of one we had in West Irian. 
What are our Indonesian friends saying? They are saying that because the people are illiterate we must let the chieftains vote for them. What a hypocritical attitude to take. A lot of people in this world cannot read and write but that does not mean they are stupid or they do not understand what independence and self-determination are all about. The Timorese have been under the thumb of a colonial overlord for 400 or 500 years. They have been depressed by those overlords. When they get the opportunity to stand on their own feet a neighbouring country comes in and crushes them underfoot. We have been a parry to that action and we should be thoroughly ashamed of it. 
-These Bills affect the apple and pear industry and primarily are an extension of the 1971-75 legislation. The apple and pear industry is yet another industry that was founded along traditional lines to supply the markets of the United Kingdom and can be coupled with other industries which are causing a great deal of concern in Australia today such as the canned fruit industry, the dried fruit industry, the dairy industry and, to lesser degrees, other industries. Traditionally this country has grown great as a result of the export earnings that have flowed from such industries. The reason for this legislation today is that no longer have we the traditional market tie-up with the United Kingdom that we had. If one studies- and I will not attempt to do so today- the barriers put up against trade by the European Economic Community in general one must acknowledge that it is a source of some horror for all thinking members of parliament. In this day and age, with the importance of emerging countries wanting to sell their goods, which so often are based on primary industry, it is unthinkable that any bloc in the world today should adopt what I regard as such a nefarious tactic as to put up its defences and its tarriff barriers against all trade. It is a matter of grave concern not only to this nation but also to other smaller nations spread around the globe. 
The scheme we are discussing today provides for the setting up of a support price for each variety of apple and pear. Support prices are adjusted each season. Payments are made to growers whenever the average realisation within that variety is below the support price. When realisations are higher than the support price level growers are required to contribute to the scheme funds. The scheme uses average realisation from all export sales as an indicator of the market price level. However, only fruit shipped 'at risk' is eligible for stabilisation payments under this legislation or is liable for grower contributions. Such shipments are mainly destined for the European and the North American markets. 'At risk' shipments are denned as shipments exported but which have not been sold by fixed price contracts prior to export. Such shipments include fruits shipped on consignment under guaranteed advance contact and fruit that can be sold when on board ship. 
The objectives of the scheme include an attempt to reduce economic and social disruption at a time of declining profitability within the industry. The scheme also attempts to provide some form of security for future planning within the industry. The last figures I have on the costs of the scheme cover the period from 1971 to 1975. The costs have amounted to $ 14.3m and in that period growers have been required to pay $200,000 into the scheme. During the period from 1971 to 1975 export apple growers experienced continued downward pressure on their incomes due to increasing costs of production. These costs are primarily made up of packing, overseas freight and labour charges. Despite the high level of price support exports of apples to Europe and to North American markets declined by 47 per cent during the years 1 97 1 to 1 975, for the reasons I have already mentioned. For the same period and in the same markets pears declined by 30 per cent. Growers in Tasmania have received approximately 65 per cent of the assistance paid to the industry, and Western Australian and Victorian growers have received 20 per cent and 10 per cent respectively. 
The main effect of the stabilisation scheme has been to provide income support to apple growers and, to a smaller degree, to pear growers who faced a rapid decline in prices of fruit sold in traditional export markets. Growers have left the industry in some numbers. Over the 5 years from 1 969 to 1 974 the number of orchards declined by 44 per cent in Tasmania and the number of growers went from 938 down to 528, and the trend is continuing. In Western Australia the number of orchards declined by 50 per cent, from 1 133 to 566. There was a greater loss of orchards in the west than in Tasmania. 
The Industries Assistance Commission's report recommends that price support assistance should be extended but that the levels of assistance should not discourage further adjustment out of unprofitable export markets. The scheme can provide income support as the industry adjusts itself. Apple exports in 1976 are estimated to be 3.5 million boxes as against 4.6 million in the previous year. On such a basis it is expected that up to 2.2 million boxes of apples may be available for shipment at risk, as I have just defined that phrase, and therefore will be eligible for inclusion within the stabilisation arrangements of this legislation. The IAC recommends that price support be available at a maximum of $2 per box for 1976 and that a limit of 2 million boxes be placed on shipments eligible for support. This is consistent with what is recommended within this legislation. Therefore total Government commitment would amount to about $4m, if that limit is met by the export supply, compared with the assistance to apple exports in 1 975 costing about $5m. 
The general picture in the case of pears is roughly the same except that in 1975 high prices were received for pears. Much lower prices are predicted for 1976. Assistance in 1976 is to be at the rate of 80c a box, as recommended by the Commission. The limit in the case of pears for 1976 is 1.4 million boxes. The Commission recommends the extension of the scheme to cover the 1977 crop also as most farmers will need to make decisions about that crop during the 1976 winter when the first significant investments in the 1977 crop will be made. The recommendations of the Commission covering the 1 976 and 1 977 seasons are made on the assumption that the special assistance measures of 1974 and 1975 will not apply. I think that other speakers will take up that matter as it applies to their individual States. 
The basic problem facing the apple and pear industry is an imbalance between current levels of production and available avenues for economic disposal in terms of export, local fresh consumption and processing. Processing in this instance would refer to apple pulp and apple juicing and other by-products that can be used in conjunction with other industries. The imbalance is more marked in some States than in others. The Apple and Pear Corporation is anxious for the continuation of the apple and pear stabilisation scheme and also that the tree-pull scheme be instituted without means test. This is a matter of some concern in areas such as Shepparton and others within the Australian horticultural scene. They are anxious that surplus production be reduced more rapidly in some States where such surpluses already exist. 
During 1974-75 the juice concentrate market for apples and pears collapsed. This was primarily due to the withdrawal by the Whitlam Government of the sales tax concession applicable to the use of juice in carbonated drinks. Export demand for such concentrates also happened to fall at around that time by some 40 per cent. There is surplus capacity in many of the packing sheds throughout Australia today now that that market has diminished to the point of almost complete extinction. This state of affairs is a matter of some concern to plants within the electorate of Angas and no doubt elsewhere. At present it seems unlikely that any easy way can be found to remedy the stagnation within this section of the industry. 
The position regarding fresh pears is in some ways less serious than with apples due to the more successful diversification of export markets. Sharp cost increases, including shipping freights, have made substantial inroads into net returns and future prospects can be regarded only as fairly minimal. Wholesale apple prices during the year looked at by the Apple and Pear Corporation report averaged around $8.50 a box and pears around $9.90. These prices are some $2 a box higher than 1974. However, after deduction of handling costs, commission and freight, it is not expected that the f.o.b. returns for apples will be sufficient to cover grower costs and will require supplementation from the stabilisation scheme. The apple and pear export industry continues to face a major problem in the negotiation of freight rates and the arrangement of shipping services for its major markets. The Apple and Pear Corporation made an urgent submission to the Government for the continuation of the stabilisation scheme. This, as a result of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation, primarily has been met. 
I will finish my few words on this topic by once again attempting to hammer home the point in simple terms in this House that we are facing the debacle of our traditional markets in respect of all of our export orientated industries which are small in terms of production. In the case of the canned fruits industry, for instance, it may well be that 60 per cent of products exported in the past will now be foisted on the domestic market with devastating effects on the growers as the price tumbles due to over-supply. There is no easy or short term solution to this problem because added to it is the invidious position of the incomes of the growers concerned. Their incomes are not indexed. Their incomes do not receive annual attention from the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. They are faced with charges levied on the processing of all their goods plus payroll tax at the factory plus - 
Equal pay for female workers at the canneries, about which I suppose we can have no moral objection, but this is an added cost. The industry also is faced with increased workers compensation payments. These are all matters over which the industry has no real control as regards its cost structure. 
Primarily all farmers in all of these industries, whether they be dairymen, whether they grow fruit for canning, whether they grow dried fruit, whether they grow apples or whether they grow pears are in the invidious position that as charges soar they can obtain only what is left. In the case of several of the industries I have mentioned, almost nothing is left and what is left is considerably below the cost of production. The ravages of inflation have caused a huge increase in costs over which these poor unfortunate people have no control. They have no end way of receiving increased prices. They have been faced all of a sudden, primarily due to actions of the European Economic Community, with a situation in which their goods have flooded the local markets. 
I hope that we will not hear quite so much from the Opposition as we heard earlier in this session in respect of small dispensations such as the superphosphate bounty. Primary producers received what I can only describe as a political kick from one or two sources. Every way that money can be found to help to effect a stable cost structure within those industries is a matter of very grave importance to the small farmers in the Australian community today. 
-Does the honourable member seek to make a personal explanation. 
-Order! Is the Prime Minister seeking leave to make a statement? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="099131197605042_49_1.jpg"></graphic>

Invalid pensions are included under 'Assistance to the Aged ' up until 1 970-7 1 , as separate figures are not available prior to 1 970-7 1 . 

<graphic href="099131197605042_49_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="099131197605042_50_3.jpg"></graphic>

While I am on this matter I suppose that I should take the opportunity of talking about another aspect of nursing home beds. The Minister will find, if he has not already found, that the private commercial nursing homes lobby is a very effective and very emotional lobby. I remember when I was Minister for Social Security that on more than one occasion, when it suited the private commercial nursing home people, patients were moved on litters out of their nursing homes to the edge of the footpaths of the streets outside the homes. It was arranged for the media, particularly the visual media, to cover the whole exercise. All sorts of emotional displays were indulged in. Poor old grand-dad was put out on the street by the hard hearted bastard down there in Canberra- they were literal comments by more than one person. After the media went the poor old person was lifted up on the litter and put back in the nursing home. What was not mentioned was that in several of these instances at least the nursing homes were clearly investment enterprises which had been returning a very generous rate of return on investment, and the restrictions which we were applying and the regulations which we were imposing had been passed in this Parliament in the closing stages of the Liberal-Country Party Administration, which parties felt as we felt in Opposition, and held the view in Government, that there had been too much exploitation of the aged. 
The Minister for Health will discover, if he has not already, that the profit making people in the nursing homes know full well how to be quite ruthless and brutal in trying to mobilise emotional responses in the community against a government so that they can exploit the taxpayer by forcing a government into paying out more money. There are a number of nursing homes in this private profit making sector which maintain very high standards. I have nothing but the highest praise for them. In fact some of them would be equal to the very best in the non-profit making sector and may even have a marginal advantage over them. But the point is that there are still some unscrupulous people. We took the system which the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had introduced to try to bring this effectively under control. I cannot hear what the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is trying to say, but from very long experience I know that I am not missing anything. 

 Mr Clyde Cameron- I rise on a point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Griffith has no right to be interjecting while out of his place. I suggest that you either ask him to shut up or get back onto his seat. 
-Order! The honourable member has made his point. 1 am inclined to uphold it. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat for a moment. The honourable member for Melbourne has been interjecting consistently and has been making a nuisance of himself in the House. I suggest that he await his turn to speak rather than interrupt other honourable members. 
-I wish to inform the House of the following nomination of members to be members of the Standing Committee on Expenditure.  Mr Kevin  Cairns,  Mr Fife, Mr Garland, Mr Lusher, Mr Macphee  and  Mr Sullivan  have been nominated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). Mr Crean, Mr Hurford, Mr Jacobi, Dr Jenkins  and  Mr Stewart  have been nominated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Have the American National Cattlemen's Association and the United States Department of Agriculture written to the Australian Government seeking permission to export semen from American beef cattle breeds to Australia; if so, has the Government answered this request. 
Is it a fact that similar semen from Canada is allowed into Australia. 
3 ) If so, is the reason for the present discrimination due to the existence of the disease of bluetongue in the United States which is highly dangerous to the cattle and sheep population of Australia. 
As the movement of stock can easily occur, officially or unofficially, between the United States and Canada, is the differentiation valid. 
Do the stringent health requirements needed for the collection and storage of Canadian deep frozen semen exceed regulations governing the collection and storage of the American semen. 
Is the American request to export semen to Australia reasonable, in view of the large intake of Australian beer by that country. 
Will he obtain statistics from the Minister for Overseas Trade to show the position of trade balances between Australia and (a) Canada and (b) the United States of America. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs completely satisfied that all possible is being done to remedy problems of starvation and lack of proper sustenance in emerging countries and in Asia in particular? Is it a fact that compared with last year's estimates in relation to food aid, that aid is running at only 50 per cent of that estimate? If the Minister is hot satisfied, can he satisfy himself and this House that every endeavour is being made to move in this way from Australian farmers surplus produce which is in the category of food aid? 
-What a strange quirk of fate it is to hear the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the previous Minister for Transport, a Minister who personally appeared to me at any rate to ruin Evans Deakin Industries Ltd - 
-Closed it down, did he? He ruined the Adelaide Ship Construction Company by a series of circumstances - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I demand a withdrawal of that remark. What I said was quite true. 
-It is now 15 minutes to 1 o'clock. In accordance with standing order 106, the debate is interrupted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In chapter 1 of the report the Committee has stated that, in examining expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, it has sought to ascertain whether or not expenditure from the Advance has been confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the original and additional Estimates. The Committee has also sought to ascertain whether or not the departments concerned in the inquiry have maintained efficient administration in the expenditure of funds under the items selected for public inquiry. As the report shows, there were cases where expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. In other cases, however, there was evidence of clerical errors, inefficient estimating procedures, and delays which caused expenditure to be charged to the Advance when provision should properly have been made in the additional Estimates. Attention has been drawn to these inadequacies where they have been discovered. 
As in several previous inquiries relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, the Committee discovered several cases where amounts were charged to the Advance without warrant authority, in contravention of Treasury Regulation 90 ( 1). Although the Committee was generally satisfied with the departmental explanations relating to these expenditures and did not examine any at public inquiry, the attention of all departments has been directed to the requirements of the Regulation. 
The Committee had cause to comment adversely on the brevity of some departmental explanations and the fact that some witnesses appearing before the Committee were inadequately briefed. The Committee also commented on the fact that some departments were unduly slow in furnishing supplementary information requested during the course of the inquiry. As the Public Accounts Committee is a committee of the Parliament it is essential that all departments present evidence of a high quality and that they be represented by senior officers. In this context the Committee notes that the Treasury recently issued a circular directing the attention of all departments to the Committee's requirements. 
The 159th report comprises 2 Treasury minutes relating to previous reports of the Committee. These reports were the 144th report, which related to the then Department of Education and Science, and the 146th report, which dealt with items from the Auditor-General's report for 1971-72. The Treasury minutes were considered by the previous Committee but the double dissolution of last November delayed their presentation. The practice of presenting Treasury minutes is the result of an arrangement made between the Committee and the Treasurer before the presentation of the Committee 's first report on 10 March 1953. The arrangement is that the Committee forwards a copy of each report to the Treasurer for consideration immediately that report is tabled.  His  reply, in the form of a Treasury minute, is then examined by the Committee and included in a later report to the Parliament. The 159th report is one of these later reports. Before preparing its minute, the Treasury consults the departments concerned and obtains their views on the recommendations and conclusions of the Committee. Essentially the Treasury minute system ensures that Committee recommendations are acted upon and informs members of the steps taken to meet their proposals. At present Treasury minutes on five of the Committee's reports are outstanding. 
In the 144th report the Committee recommended that a review then in progress to establish the training needs and organisation requirements of the Department of Education should be concluded and acted upon as a matter of urgency. The Committee noted from the Treasury minute that the review was completed and the Department had determined a broad training policy and training program, which is proceeding. The Committee also had cause to refer to the considerable delays then occurring in the preparation of subordinate legislation such as regulations. The Treasury minute informed the Committee of new measures designed to overcome past difficulties in the drafting of subordinate legislation. These included the drafting of subordinate legislation by a newly created Legislative Drafting Division in the AttorneyGeneral's Department and the establishment of the Legislative Drafting Institute, which conducts courses and gives instructions in legislative drafting. 
In the 146th report the Committee had' commented adversely on the arrears that had accumulated in verifying accounts received from the United States Armed Services for equipment and stores purchased for the Australian armed forces. The Committee has been advised in the Treasury minute that the backlog of work has been overtaken and the position is now considered to be satisfactory. The Committee also expressed its concern that no general principles had been laid down for making provision for employee 's long service leave in business undertaking operating through departmental trust accounts. The Treasury minute informed the Committee that policy guidelines have been formulated on the general principles of accounting for furlough and that these guidelines have been circulated to departments. I commend the reports to honourable members. 
-Order! The original question was: 'That the Bill be now read a second time'. To that motion the honourable member for Adelaide has moved as an amendment that all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting other words. The immediate question is: 'That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 9-by leave-taken together. 
I will commence my remarks by commenting on clauses 5 to 10 of the Bill, which relate to the wine industry. I think it is necessary to give a certain amount of the history of the matter if for no other purpose than to help the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I think that the honourable member has his chronological order of facts- not opinions- a little wrong. He seems to be under the impression that we are now seeking to change a situation in which there is a 7-year transitional period for the repayment of deferred tax brought about by the repeal by his Government of section 31a of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Of course, that is untrue. We are seeking to repeal a situation in which there is a 5-year transitional period. Four of those years are repayment years and one is not. This Govern ment has doubled the repayment period from 4 years to 8 years. 
A 7-year period is not the law. This was an election gimmick pledge by former Prime Minister Whitlam to the South Australian electorate at the time of the South Australian election. From that time on, no action was taken. No mention of this appeared in the following Federal Budget and none of the Budget papers mentioned the loss of revenue as a result of the failure to implement the pledge. After the Budget I checked personally with the Parliamentary Counsel, with officers of the Department and in every way I could. I found out that no move had been made to honour those promises given at the time of the South Australian election. I do not want to grind this point too much because I am trying to get some facts straight in the matter. I am trying to point out that it is wrong for the honourable member for Adelaide to compare what this Government is doing now with his 7-year transitional scheme which was promised. That was only a hopeful piece of window dressing put forward at the time. We are comparing this Bill with the 5-year transitional period, currently in operation. 
In justice to the honourable member for Adelaide, let us look at what the Whitlam Government offered at the time of the South Australian election. It offered to increase the transitional period from 5 years to 7 years. The Whitlam Government offered a maximum payment per annum on deferral of tax under section 31a of the Act of 15 per cent above the normal company tax rates. This Bill will bring that 15 per cent down to 10 per cent. So already we have established a situation in which this Government is listening to the industry. It has doubled the repayment years. It has cut down the maximum above normal taxation rates to 10 per cent. No such upper limit was set prior to this time. The only comparison which the honourable member for Adelaide chose to draw was in relation to a hypothetical position. As I say, the 15 per cent maximum proposed payment has now been reduced to 10 per cent. Both these measures will be of some help to the wine industry. But they pale into insignificance when compared with the importance of the division 7 alterations to the principal Act which apply to private companies. 
Public companies, as I understand it, will not and of course cannot, have benefits flowing  from  these alterations; but the phasing-in period will be double the normal period. They will pay the maximum above normal company taxation rates which can be no greater than 10 per cent. As far as I am aware, they will have the further advantages of the Mathews Committee recommendations on stock valuation and inflationary accountancy generally. These are pretty real provisions. I remind the House that these provisions and this relaxation of terms have been given by this Government to the wine industry at a time when economic strictures are necessary. The time when the Labor Party did not offer this circumstance was a time in history when money appeared to be flowing left, right and centre to different areas of industry. So there is a totally different period in which we should compare those differences. 
Because we are in Committee and because I did not have a chance to talk during the second reading debate I want to sound one or two notes of warning. I think the Government should look- the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  is particularly keen that I should mention this point for him- at one of the problems that remains- the sole trader. It may well be due to the fact that the wine industry does not truly represent this sort of people. The sole trader is in a position where logically he cannot benefit by the Division 7 provisions whereas private companies can. The sole trader is not in a position where he can benefit in many ways from this package deal. I am not at all sure that under this legislation, the sole trader or indeed those 2 people in partnership are not disadvantaged as against public and private companies. If this be true- and the discussions I have been able to have produce a query or doubt as to whether it is true to say the least-we shall have to look at this very carefully. This Government, I think more than most, would have in mind the sole trader, the small partnership, the small winery. The quality producer is the important firm of the future. We should not like to think we were stopping this regenerative process in any shape or form. I associate the honourable member for Murray with my remarks in relation to that. 
I should also like to deal with another area where I am not personally satisfied. Section 31a repayals of deferred tax go back to a point in time when all wineries had stock. As from that point onwards, nominal or standard valuation was used to value all incoming stock. That is what the argument over section 3 lA is all about. It appears to me very likely that there are cases where stock taken in prior to 1953 was taken in at near enough to the cost valuation of the product at that time. It was probably not taken in on a nominal or standard valuation. Where wineries have done this they have had that stock taken in to the overall repayal due to the deferral of section 31a taxation. I am doubtful whether the Government has had a careful enough look at this problem. As one private company winery said to me: 'You can compare it to this: If you have a shop shelf full of tins and some of them are old tins that came in last year, and every year, as your rate of sales increases there are more and more tins, there is the problem of which tin you have sold and at what valuation. So surely it is common sense that your original stock should be deducted from any backdating of payment due to deferred tax'. I am afraid that I am not an accountant. I am far from being an accountant, and hardly a bush accountant. Maybe there is not logic in what I am saying, but I suspect that there is. I should like the Government to have a look at the problem not only of the sole trader and the partnership, but also of those people who have operated perfectly honourably within the system and who might have stock dating back prior to 1953, brought in at cost. I think that historic valuation should be deducted from payments due to the deferral of the section 3 1a provisions. 
In the last minute remaining to me I wish to say one more thing. Because this Government has not seen fit any more than the previous 
Government did- I note the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  yesterday in which he said that both sides of the chamber are uniform in their thinking on this matter now, and I accept that- to replace section 3 1a in the Act, I want the Committee and everybody to know that a very serious tax onus is still placed on the industry generally. It may well be that it will be 8 years, until the end of the payments under section 3 1a, before the industry can physically be taxed any more. There is a limit to how much taxation industries can pay. I place that fact very firmly before the Committee. Although the breweries think that the wine industry should be taxed, in these new circumstances I do not believe that it is realistic even to consider such a proposal. 
-Order! The honourable member is on the front bench now. I think he should remember that. 
-Order! If the honourable member uses the word 'deceitful' in the sense of lying, he would be incorrect in doing so. I suggest that he watches the degree to which he uses that word. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that the growth centre program will be terminated. This is simply incorrect, as the honourable gentleman well knows. What the Government has wisely decided to do is to review the program, and a review is badly needed. The Labor Government's headlong rush into massive expenditure on growth centres was executed without adequate study, without regard to population trends in Australia and without regard to the balanced development of Australia as a whole, including in particular non-metropolitan areas which were not designated as growth centres. The Government's decision to take stock of the situation is timely and, in my view, to be applauded There may well be a real role for designated growth centres. But let us first look at the situation as a whole and, unlike the previous Government, reach our decisions on the basis of objective and reasoned study and discussion. The Leader of the Opposition implied that because federal funds for land commissioners are to be reduced next year the land price spiral will continue. There is no evidence whatsoever to support that inference. Indeed, there is evidence to suggest that under at least one existing land commission the price of land has increased by more than it otherwise would. 
The Leader of the Opposition asserted that restraint in the growth of Government expenditure will blunt Australia's competitiveness as a trading nation. If ever there was an inversion of the real situation it must be this statement. Inflation destroys a nation's competiveness. Unless the honourable gentleman is at odds with this simple truth, and with the views of his last Treasurer, he could not in any honesty make such an astonishing assertion. So much for the contribution to this debate by the Opposition. The situation would be laughable if the effect of the Opposition's contribution were not so serious. This situation is serious because it reflects the depths to which the Opposition has sunk in this Parliament. It is even more serious because the Opposition is deliberately misleading the Australian people. The real situation is this: Australia faces a very serious economic situation caused by the policies of the Whitlam Government. The No.l priority now is to reduce the level of inflation and to get the Australian economy back on an upward path. These 2 aspects are fundamentally inter-related. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
In the short run at least, these programs constitute a demand on overall resources without adding directly to the supply of resources. Without an overall increase in the supply of resources which in the main must come from increased productive activity in Australia and particularly from the private sector, the capacity of the economy to provide what all Australians want by way of increased living standards is very limited. It is for this reason that the Government has placed emphasis on the need to regenerate private sector activity. The Government's economic measures- not only those announced last week but also the whole policy approach since regaining government-should go a long way towards achieving the objective that all Australians want. However, they will not do the trick on their own. They will need to be accompanied by cooperation from all sections of the communityemployers, self-employed people, union officials and employees. We need to recognise that we in Australia are not going to be able to achieve all those things that we want both for ourselves and for Australia without co-operation, hard work and restraint on all sides. 
The attempt by the Opposition in this debate and through the media to drive a wedge between the Government and the union movement is pitiful and to be deplored by all Australians. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  has given the Government's latest policy measures cautious approval. It is a pity that the Opposition has not responded in the same responsible manner. In my view, the Government's latest measures are an excellent blend to meet our overall economic requirements and at the same time to meet a real economic and social need of those in our community who are amongst the worst off- namely, the very low income earners with children. The new scheme of family allowances which benefits those worst off families the most is a major advance in social welfare in Australia and is recognised as such by all Australians. It is fatuous for the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide, to say as he did in the debate yesterday: 
We would have done this ourselves. We had had position papers on the subject since 1971. However, we delayed implementation until the recommendations of the Henderson poverty inquiry were made known. These recommendations were not made to our Government until last August which was too late for our last Budget. 
What nonsense! Why did the Labor Government have to wait when it claims it had had the position papers on the subject since 1971? Either Labor had not the courage of its convictions or it was unconcerned about the real social need in the Australian community. I suspect that it was a combination of both. 
The introduction of full personal tax indexation is a measure which also has been acclaimed by all sections of the community, including the union movement. The important thing to remember about tax indexation is that it is a continuing benefit, not a once and for all measure. Therefore it is short-sighted simply to judge it in the light of the next 12 months when for many people the take home pay will not be much different from what it is now when the Medibank levy is taken into account. But for many people there will be a very real and significant increase in their real take home pay, and the people who will be most affected in that respect are again those who are most in need in the community. The Medibank levy is not an additional tax. If the levy had not been introduced the cost of Medibank would have had to be financed through higher and higher general taxation. Medibank never was and never could be free to the community as a whole. The new proposals make clear that the service provided by Medibank has to be paid for except by those most in need- persons without taxable incomes. This is equitable and it is much more honest than the previous system. Even one of the founders of Medibank,  Dr Scotton,  publicly supported these changes on television last week. 
The proposals before the House must be looked at as a package. Of course not everyone will like every element of that package but overall it is a package which I have no doubt at all is on the right lines in both economic and social terms and will increasingly come to be so recognised as the Australian economy responds to the responsible economic management now at last provided by this Government after 3 years of the opposite. 
I move: 
That the House condemns the previous Government's economic mismanagement which has caused hardship and misery to a high proportion of those involved in rural industries. 
I do not expect that I will have a lot of time to debate this matter today, but I must say in opening my remarks that all over the countryside today rural industries are in trouble because of the ravages of inflation and high costs which I maintain are the direct responsibility of the previous Government. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
-The question is: 'That the motion be agreed to'. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-The Australian dairy industry- comprising some 33 000 dairy farmers plus all those people involved in the processing and ancillary industries- like the canned fruit industry, the apple industry and the dried fruit industry, was founded largely on the traditional access to the United Kingdom market. With the virtual loss of this market, due to the United Kingdom joining the European Economic Community and due to the somewhat selfish, inward looking trade barriers of the EEC, these industries are left with a high export component from their total production. The particular crisis facing the industry today has been caused by these contracting markets in addition to a huge increase in dairy farmers' production costs and in factory costs. 
To give some idea of the movements of labour costs as an important ingredient of total inputs let us look at the United States of America and compare it with Australia. From June 1971 to June 1975 Australia's labour costs have moved from US$99 to US$206 whereas during the same period America's labour costs have moved from US$125 to only US$161. To put it another way, in those 4 years average earnings in Australia have more than doubled, to 106 per cent, whereas American average earnings increased by only 29 per cent. In passing, I think it is true to say that that is one reason why the United States economy is starting to boom and is coming out of its period of stagnation. On the other hand it is probably one of the reasons why the Australian economy is harder to shift from that trough with price and inflation pressures still present. Another factor which has had a debilitating effect on the dairy industry has been the appreciation of the Australian dollar in relation to the New Zealand dollar. Our dollar has appreciated by 19.9 per cent and therefore our competitive position on world markets in relation to other suppliers of dairy produce has depreciated. This is due to large cost increases coupled with the appreciation of the Australian dollar. In New Zealand 92 per cent of its production is exported. 
Much of the blame for the position of the dairy industry and many other industries like it must be placed firmly on the Whitlam Government which successfully priced much of Australia's exports out of the world markets. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is always better when he sticks to facts. He has a vivid imagination which runs away with him on odd occasions. He used such phrases about my National Country Party colleagues as 'vacillating', 'ad hockery', 'waiting until production surpluses overtook them', 'refusal to act' and 'not facing the problem'. 
-That is right. What does he want us to do at this stage? He preaches compassion on the one hand and on the other hand seems to me to imply that this Government is negligent in not putting 25 per cent of dairy farmers to the sword now. What does he want?  His  own party, after 3 years of masterly inactivity in this area, should not talk about the problems of dairy farmers at this time. Many of us can remember the phrase used by his Leader a little while ago about the dairy farmers of Gippsland. 
-At Warragul. He said that they had never had it so good. I think that the dairy farmers and the allied workers in the industry would do well to remember that and not take much notice of the imaginative outflows from the honourable member for Blaxland. I have mentioned some of the reasons for the crisis in the dairy industry. There is another short term reason that is causing grave concern and that is the drought and the late opening rains throughout southern Australia. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics figures phophesy a 5 per cent diminution of milk supply during the drought. I think that that is a very conservative estimate. I would have thought that at the present rate of progress, despite the Government's valiant attempts to prop up the stocks of skim milk powder and casein, many dairy farmers will not survive the next 12 months. What does the honourable member for Blaxland want us to do? Does he want us to hasten this trend when at least 3 firms in Victoria are now out of skim milk powder? One of those firms is the second biggest in that State. Does he want us to hand the dairy industry over to New Zealand with its present cost advantages? He is not precise about these details. 
Another problem concerns me very much. Whilst the asset position of farmers who have been in the dairy industry for a long time may be strong enough to ride the trough in low prices, drought, low production and hugely increasing costs brought about by 3 years of economic mismanagement, we will have to look after the younger dairy farmers who have taken a financial risk and who I hope will provide virile leadership and new ideas for the industry in the future. I hope that when readjustment is financed by the State instrumentalities these people will be given the maximum sympathy and financial backing to help them out of their position, which is much more difficult than that of some of the older dairy farmers, some of whom might well be turned out to pasture in the normal course of events. I hope that I am not quoted too widely on that, but if I were still involved in dairying-I am not to any major degree- I would include myself amongst those farmers. 
The Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Bill amends the Dairying Research Levy Act to impose a levy on whole milk or on butterfats as the case may be, to provide a more equitable and effective form of financing the administration and promotion activities of the Australian Dairy Corporation. Previously the source of finance for operations of the old board, and now the new corporation, has been a levy applied only on the production of butterfats used in the production of butter, butter oil, butter powder, cheese and ghee. The revenue so obtained has proved to be insufficient, particularly as a result of decreased production of some butterfat products. 
The operations of the ADC now include within their sphere of general responsibility nearly all sections of the dairy industry. The Government now thinks, and I certainly support it, that it would be more equitable for the levy to be imposed on all whole milk. The present levy fell almost exclusively on the butter and cheese sectors of the industry. I agree with the Government's decision, and I note that it had the support of the Agricultural Council which met on 1 April. In difficult times for the dairy industry it also seems a matter of equity that those sections of the industry supplying city milk production, and therefore insulated to one degree or another against the falling prices of processed milk products, should contribute towards the running of the ADC. The amounts of the levy and how they are applied are available from reading the Bill. I will not mention them again. 
The Dairy Adjustment Amendment Bill was partially covered by the honourable member for Blaxland. This is the second important Bill of the 3 Bills being debated. It makes available $2 8m for assistance to the dairy industry through its adjustment program. This program came into operation late in 1974, and by mid-August 1975 funds were almost totally committed. No further applications for assistance were accepted after 31 August last year. This Bill appropriates a further $3. 5m for the purposes of the dairy adjustment program to give effect to the Government's decision to extend the forms of assistance available to farmers. This $3.5m is made up of $2m specifically for selected short term adjustment measures to alleviate critical financial difficulties apparent in many dairy farms. Secondly, it provides $1.5m to meet a commitment to the States by the previous Government to help fund applications for assistance received between 15 and 31 August 1975. The short-term measures under the dairy adjustment program include diversification, farm amalgamation and development for carry-on loans. The 1974 Act already authorises relocation, farm amalgamation and development assistance. This Bill authorises the new measure of carry-on loans and extends the provision for diversification assistance. As time is running away, I shall not make any comments on carry-on loans but I should like to concentrate on diversification assistance. 
This assistance is available to those producers who are willing to diversify away from dairying to an alternative and presumably more economic use of their land. The Bill extends diversification assistance to the field of compensation for redundant dairying assets of 2 separate classes of producers not previously eligible. Firstly there is the small uneconomic producer with no long-term prospects of viability either in dairying or alternative farm pursuits. Some of these smallscale producers will prefer to stay on the land and in their own homes and seek a living from off-farm work. I believe that there are a great many more small dairy farmers of increasing age who would elect to do just this than governments realise at this stage. Secondly there is the producer who has been dairying as part of a mixed farm enterprise and who must now be faced with the realisation that returns from dairying do not warrant the capital and the labour involved. The Government aims to encourage this class of dairy farmer to give up production. Under this Bill they will be entitled to recover part of their investment. 
The assistance for relocation purposes has been liberalised so that the maximum loan now rises from $3,000 to $5,000. The 1974 Act stipulated that applications must be lodged for approval before 1 July 1976. This Bill extends this time limit and also enables the Government to extend this to a later date by way of proclamation. Provision is made in the Act to increase the total amount payable to the States to $64.5m or such further amounts that may be appropriated by Parliament. These Bills under debate, as well as other decisions made, form part of a package deal to give immediate short-term help to the dairying industry and to those persons who are part of it. Skim milk powder has been underwritten by the Government for the 1975-76 season at $300 a tonne and the rate of Government advances has been increased from 80 per cent to 100 per cent. I hope that extension continues until such time at least as Professor 
Crawford reports back to the Minister. In addition, the Commonwealth has varied the conditions of eligibility for unemployment benefits to enable dairy farmers and others who are currently suffering great financial hardship to qualify for assistance. One could well add to those factors the importance to those placed in stringent economic conditions of the family allowances which increase child endowment measures of the past so markedly. 
It is not really my intention today to discuss the future structure or organisation of the dairying industry. Suffice to say the rural committee of the Government parties has already done a great deal of work on these most difficult matters. We await with great interest the findings of Professor Crawford who is due to report by the end of August.  His  clarity of mind, when brought to bear on most difficult problems, will be welcomed by all who have the dairying industry at heart. Because of the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the dairying industry, I do not personally look on this referral of the problem to Crawford as being an appeal from Caesar to Caesar, but rather as a matter of poetic justice due to the fact that some aspects of the IAC report are insufficiently thought through. 
I will, however, offer one or two free comments on my own behalf. Encouragement of increased production, both in Tasmania but more specifically in Victoria, has proved to be against the interests of every dairy farmer in this nation. Farm settlement schemes such as Heytesbury should have been negated years ago. All the indications were there and many States were cutting back on production at that time although they were certainly aided by the boom in cattle prices. I believe that the industry has always been too far removed from the market place and from the trends that emerge from the market place and from new demands. 
The member for Blaxland cited the matter of butter wraps. I think there are many more important aspects which the dairying industry of the future could look at. But the industry will not look at them if the Labor Party has its way and produces a totally centralised authority on top of the industry. The industry will only do so if it is in touch with market place trends, if it can establish sales for innovations and if it generally has the verility that goes with meeting the demands of the market place. The dairy farmer cannot comprehend or adjust to these trends. He looks at his monthly return which is equalised. He is insulated from any contact with the market place itself. Likewise his factory, which does dictate these trends, tends to get locked into its own investment policy. One thinks of the MurrayGoulburn area in Victoria in relation to that. Governments cannot dictate what form the industry should take in the future. This is very much an industry matter and very much one that the farmers must work towards themselves within the guidelines of what I hope will be a most competent report from Professor Crawford. For instance, we as a government, cannot say what future production trends we require. The history of the last 30 years would probably dictate that we would have been inaccurate in judging these matters. There is a danger therefore in any restructuring of the industry that it can become too top-heavy by centralised control in any shape or form. I believe that there are aspects of the dairying industry today that in any way can be considered efficient on any judgment. I hope that what eventuates from any re-examination of the industry takes into account that there are economic areas of the dairying industry today that could be made uneconomic if dragged down to a general lower level. 
I should like to mention briefly the matter that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has taken up today by contacting all members on this side of the House and that is the matter of milk biscuits. The House will remember that perhaps some 8 years ago the milk biscuit idea hit this House and indeed the nation. There was a mild difference between the New Zealand milk biscuit and the Australian one. But they were both fundamentally aimed at producing an easily assimilated and easily digested source of protein through skim milk powder to be made available to needy countries, especially to the children of those countries, as a supplement to their diet. I do not believe that the concept has really caught on. I think Zambia is probably the only country which has used the milk biscuit by way of aid or by way of direct sales. My information may not be up to date. But I congratulate the honourable member for Mackellar for bringing this matter to our attention. 
There is, however, another matter on which I should like to touch. I should like the Government to take whatever notice it can afford on this matter. Today countries like India have a crossbred friesian jersey dairy herd of some consequence emerging. The payment per pound of butter fat or per gallon of" milk is about  5Vi  times that paid to Victorian dairy farmers today, in spite of their vastly lower cost inputs. Therefore the output from these farms is such that the dairy products are priced completely out of the reach of at least four-fifths of the people of India. They do not reach the very people whom we, as compassionate Australians, would like them to reach- the young children and those in the country areas of India and similar countries. I feel quite certain at this stage that the opportunity does exist for Australia to supply a great deal more of food aid to overcome the currency problems of these countries. If we do this we should not do it merely because at the moment we have mountains of skim milk powder around our ears. We should make some forward commitment to continue to supply it as food aid or make some solid arrangement whereby countries in need can continue to purchase a proportion of it in the future. It seems to me quite stupid that 3 firms in Victoria are short of skim milk powder while another firm has it running out of its ears. It seems to me quite stupid that India and South East Asian countries need this sort of protein when it is available in this country. 
-Is it the wish of the the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he supply a list of all cinema feature films that have received assistance from the Australian Film Commission. 
Which of these films have fully recovered their costs, including promotion costs, from the net returns after distributors' costs, expenses, loans and interests have been deducted from the gross returns. 
Which films have recovered their costs from their Australian releases only. 
Which films still have not paid back their loans in full to the Commission. 
Which films have been successfully sold or shown overseas. 
-I suggest that the Minister address his remarks through the Chair. 
We will give Australian industry the protection it needs. We would sooner have jobs than dogma. We will instruct the Industries Assistance Commission to take note of the Government's policy. We will make Australian industry competitive again. 
I think it ought to be said in this debate in response to those, both inside and outside this House, who have said that the Government has been silent on the question of general tariff policy that the Government has implemented all those sections of its pre-election policy statement on tariffs. Its pre-election policy statement on manufacturing industry and industrial policy contained a number of criteria and, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide and other honourable members opposite know, those criteria were the subject of a request sent by me to the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission some weeks ago. That request contained all the principles which had been enunciated in the Government's pre-election policy statement on tariffs. In future, the IAC will, in accordance with my request, be required, not only in respect of future references but also in respect of references currently before it, to reflect the criteria contained in that policy statement in the reports it gives to the Government. That was the policy we laid down. It found wide acceptance throughout industry prior to the election. We have honoured that pre-election undertaking by giving those instructions and making that request to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
In concluding my remarks on this debate, I should like particularly to thank the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  for the contribution he made to this debate. With respect to other honourable members who spoke during the debate, I think the honourable member for Ballaarat understood the difficulty of balancing competing interests and competing demands with respect to tariffs. He understands quite well that one cannot see the matter in black and white terms as the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  did, although I could agree with much of what the honourable member for Cunningham said. In fact, I found one of his remarks quite amusing. He said, in effect, that there is an old saying that you never knock a doll over unless you know what takes its place. It is a great pity that he did not apply that policy to the mining industry when he was the Minister for Minerals and Energy because if ever a doll was knocked over by the action of a Government Minister when he was in office it was the mining industry at the hands of the former Minister for Minerals and Energy. To return to the honourable member for Ballaarat, I thought his contribution to this debate identified clearly in the minds of honourable members that this is an area where one cannot take a black and white position. Of course, one cannot give uncritical, unceasing and unvaried protection to all sectors of manufacturing industry but, equally, manufacturing industry has a right to survive in this country. This country requires strong manufacturing industry in a large number of significant areas of the Australian economy. 
I even found myself in agreement with some of the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide on this subject. One cannot consider this issue in black and white terms. On occasions, Australians, whether they are exporters or consumers, will have to pay for having industries which the great majority of the Australian people want and which it is in the national interest for us to have. But equally, we have to take account of our international trading obligations. We have an obligation as a relatively wealthy member of the world community to assist the developing countries with our international trade arrangements. Inevitably when one finishes a speech like that the risk is run that one will be accused of trying to be all things to all men. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Would the honourable member come to his point of order. Is it that remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland are not in context? 
-Order! I do not think the honourable member needs any help. 
In conclusion- there is one very articulate Opposition member to follow me in the debate- I want to place on the record this is big news for the people of the electorate of La Trobe. I have the greatest pleasure in supporting this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
) Have the American National Cattlemen's Association and the United States Department of Agriculture written to the Australian Government seeking permission to export semen from American beef cattle breeds to Australia: if so. has the Government answered this request. 
2 ) Is it a fact that similar semen from Canada is allowed into Australia. 
3 ) If so, is the reason for the present discrimination due to the existence of the disease of bluetongue in the United States which is highly dangerous to the cattle and sheep population of Australia. 
As the movement of stock can easily occur, officially or unofficially, between the United States and Canada, is the differentiation valid. 
Do the stringent health requirements needed for the collection and storage of Canadian deep frozen semen exceed regulations governing the collection and storage of the American semen. 
Is the American request to export semen to Australia reasonable, in view of the large intake of Australian beef by that country. 
) Will he obtain statistics from the Minister for Overseas Trade to show the position of trade balances between Australia and (a) Canada and (b) the United States of America. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
That Customs TariffProposals Nos 1 to 6 ( 1976), constituting part of Order of the Day No. 30, Government Business, be discharged. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Order It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I understand the point of order. I do not yet know what the Minister is going to say. 
The reason we are in trouble in Australia today is the lack of administrative capacity of the previous Administration. If the Deputy Leader of the Opposition wants to remind the nation that he is proud of the record of the previous Administration- it is regrettable that the proceedings of this House are not being broadcast tonight- then so let it be, because the Australian nation judged the record of the Whitlam Administration just a short 8 months ago. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talks of the housing industry in Queensland. He may be sorry to know that indeed it is on the upturn. He ought to know, if he is informed, that the housing industry is not consistent throughout Australia; it operates at different levels in the various States. Indeed, there is a boom in housing in Western Australia. The Loan Bill makes much reference to housing, which was introduced into the debate by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. We are again moving towards real liquidity and growth in the housing industry in the State of Queensland. 
It is not my desire to talk at length on what I regard as basically a machinery Bill. The House is currently engaged in a debate on the Budget, which gives as many members as possible an opportunity to speak. On behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  I would simply like to thank those who took part in the debate on this Bill. I listened quite carefully to the comments made by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide, particularly those comments related to the accountancy procedures of the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Order! Remove that man. 
-Order! The House will take little notice of this disturbance and wait until it subsides. The House will then continue in order.  (Extension of time granted) 
No public statement was made by BHP, least of all by its managing director who was  chairman  of a committee appointed to look into the Australian National Line- a major client to purchase new ships, a major client in the operation of our shipping industry. The  chairman  of BHP said nothing about that company's secret submission to the Government and nor did the Government say anything. Again it took the  Australian Financial Review  to bring to light the fact that BHP had put in a submission which, in effect, asked the Government to dump the shipbuilding industry, asked the Government to give BHP the opportunity to take short term advantage of the record depression that exists in world shipbuilding yards and which followed the energy crisis in 1973. That submission, hidden by BHP, was there all the time, while delegations were being met by Ministers of this Government, while representations were being received and meetings were being held by unions associated with the industry and while anxiety and heartbreak was developing for the tens of thousands of people who will be affected when the shipyards are closed down. We are not talking about the 6000 people directly employed in the yards. We are talking about over 18 000, or 24 000 in total, directly associated with the industry. We are also talking about their dependants. So we can think in terms of SO 000 to 60 000 Australians who will be directly affected, who will be looking to this Government in the next few months for some means in which to meet their house payments, for some means to meet their food bills, for some means to pay their Medibank payments- the new Medibank tax that has been - 
-Order! Before I call the honourable member for Denison I remind the gallery and honourable members that any interference with the business of the House will not be tolerated in this place. 
-May I be clear? Does the honourable member intend to adjourn the debate or to speak in the debate? 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Order The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is the Government aware of the continuing deterioration in seasonal conditions due to rainfall failure? Has the Government considered the financial implications facing farmers and growers generally in southern Australia with summer yet to come? 
-Order The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="100131197609085_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

Many smaller regional stations are facing a continual struggle to gain a sufficient audience to obtain sufficient advertising revenue to cover costs and to stay in the business of providing a comprehensive local service to their communities. Already many provincial stations have amalgamated within the limitations imposed by the Broadcasting and Television Act, in this fight for survival. Additionally, new initiatives have been taken to establish groupings amongst provincial licensees to present to advertisers market areas of acceptable size. These measures have been undertaken to ensure a continuance of the revenue that is so necessary in order to service the areas granted under the respective licences. I must also make the comment that, although dollar revenues have risen generally within the industry, the value of those revenues has declined. The plateau system of charges, which I have had included in  Hansard  and which were struck some years ago- the percentage scale of charges- has not been altered even though the value of the earnings has changed. Regional stations have real difficulties in meeting the requirements of their viewers. I ask the Minister to take note of these problems that are peculiar to regional stations. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill - 
I am sorry; I thought I got the call. 
Certainly,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="100131197609096_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

In this regard, one significant current deficiency is the lack of adequate inter-suburban transport links. The great majority of the Australian urban workers has no direct public transport link with their work location. This leads to increasing use of the private motor car for the journey to and from work with its resultant road and parking congestion. We are all aware of the benefits and costs which are attributable to urban travel by private motor vehicles. There is a growing belief that these costs tend to outweigh the benefits to the community at large. We are therefore anxious to assist the States and provide improved public transport services to relieve congestion and pollution on suburban streets. Our approach to urban transport problems will proceed hand in hand with our development of Federal/State relations policies. State and local governments have clear responsibilities in the provision of urban transport services. It is our aim to see that they receive adequate funds to carry out these responsibilities consistent with prevailing budgetary considerations. This does not mean of course that the Commonwealth does not have a national responsibility in urban issues. Rather it believes that decisions should be made and implemented wherever possible at the State and local level. 
I am currently investigating in co-operation with my colleagues in ATAC the general question of the future funding of urban transport improvements bearing in mind that the present Agreement expires at the end of 1977-78. 1 propose to ensure any future financial arrangements are consistent with the Government's overall federalism policy. I want to be clearly aware of the States requirements so that I can adequately represent their views to my Government. But most of all I want the development of programs that have been carefully planned and evaluated. It is important that we learn from experience. The difficulties created by the present arrangements should not be repeated, so that the benefits of any future investment program can be maximised. As I have already indicated, the two most salutory lessons from the 3 years of Labor maladministration are the need to plan carefully and to act in full co-operation with State and local government. This should not be interpreted by honourable members as implying that the Government does not appreciate the urgency and need for improvements to the public transport systems in our cities. We certainly acknowledge the overall need as is reflected by the 90 per cent increase in the Commonwealth allocation of this program for 1976-77. But in a period where it is simply unrealistic to contemplate the high levels of expenditure required to upgrade totally the urban transport systems of our cities, we must seek to optimise the funds available. 
In this regard, I would point out that there is an obvious world-wide swing away from the 'grand strategy' approach of solving the transport problems of urban areas. The pendulum is swinging towards making best use of the existing infrastructure rather than providing new systems. The emerging philosophy is to concentrate on making existing systems operate as efficiently and effectively as possible rather than appropriate at the taxpayer's expense the vast expenditure required for new systems. A corollary of this approach is the emphasis now being placed on the co-ordination of transport services. Buses feed trains and ferries, cars feed buses and trains. The park and ride principle is widely adopted overseas and is growing in use in Australia with several such schemes being introduced under this program. Several operators in Australia are adopting ticketing systems which allow transfers between modes. The operators of public transport services are also aware of the need to keep travellers moving. In this regard a number of measures designed to give public transport vehicles priority over general traffic h.ve been successfully introduced. 
On the aspect of investigating improvements to public transport, members should be aware of the financial assistance provided to the States by the Commonwealth for transport planning and research. Under this scheme the Commonwealth provides two-thirds of the cost of projects proposed by the States and approved for assistance. In 1976-77 some $8m Will be provided to the States, of which about 36 per cent will be directed to urban transport projects. The projects are aimed at identifying transport problems and examining potential solutions. This is seen to be an essential element in the formulation of sound social, economic and technological solutions to transportation problems. 
I have always been conscious of the importance to Australia of overseas developments in urban transport. In June this year I attended the European Conference of Ministers of Transport in Toulouse. This conference consists of 18 European ministers, with Australia and Japan being associate members and the United States and Canada having observer status. Members will appreciate that the Conference brings together an extensive knowledge of transportation. It therefore provides an opportunity to exchange views with the majority of government transport authorities in the developed world. I was greatly impressed with the work of the ECMT, and I intend to ensure that Australia obtains maximum benefit from our associate membership. I recognise of course that overseas experience and solutions are not always directly applicable to the Australian situation. Access to overseas expertise can however avoid many pitfalls and duplication of effort and expenditure. 
I repeat that we are acutely aware of the significance of urban transport in contributing to the overall quality of life in our major cities. We stand ready to work in co-operation with the State and local governments in order to achieve our mutual aims of an improved public transport system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-I wonder whether the honourable member could tie his remarks into the necessity for funds a little more closely, perhaps, than he has been able to do so far. 
Honourable members may be surprised to know that it is possible for people in Mount Eliza, which is in the electorate of Flinders and is represented by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  to make a telephone call to Melbourne as a local call. However, the making of a telephone call to Melbourne from the township of Emerald, which is in my electorate, is classified as a trunk line call. Both these towns are about 32 miles from the General Post Office in Melbourne. In addition, a resident of Emerald can make a telephone call to Mount Eliza, if he wants to ring the Treasurer, for instance, at his office, as a local call, but, a trunk line charge applies to a telephone call from Emerald to Cranbourne, which is closer and on a direct line from Emerald to Mount Eliza. Even more peculiar, perhaps, is that an Emerald or a Gembrook subscriber can make a telephone call to some of the Melbourne bayside suburbs 40 miles away as a local call, yet a call to Wantirna, which is only 17 miles away, is classified as a trunk call. I referred earlier to Mount Eliza, which is in the electorate of Flinders. Residents of that town can actually make a telephone call to suburbs like Keilor, which is 40 miles away, as a local call. These are some of the anomalies in the costing of services provided by Telecom which form other channels of its revenue raising. This point needs to be borne in mind when we are considering this Bill. 
I am very pleased to be allowed to speak on the adjournment for the first time this session in order to reply to some of the more outrageous remarks of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon).  I think a little while ago, if my ears amazingly enough were working straight, he said words to the effect that the Governor-General changed the Constitution. If he said that, I would expect him to withdraw it out of deference to a man appointed by his own Party as the head of state in this country, because it is totally untrue. It is also typical of the untruths, if I might use that word, and the exaggerations that members of the Opposition have been going on with today. 
What the honourable member for Sydney said was untrue. I stick to that because patently it is untrue, and the honourable member for Chifley would agree with me. I ask him: Is it or is it not untrue? He gives no answer. There are rational people- I know the honourable member for Sydney is normally a rational person- in society who are getting fed up with over-exaggerated statements. To say that the Governor-General was guilty of changing the Constitution, as the honourable member for Sydney did tonight, is not only absurd but would not be believed by 99.99 per cent of the people of this country who have tried to follow the controversy that flowed on from the GovernorGeneral's decision to dismiss the Whitlam Government. I am glad that 2 honourable members opposite at least are nodding their heads in agreement. I accept the sincerity of their viewpoint. If a mistake has been made, I will not grind that issue any further. 
What I rose to do tonight was to quote one or two statements that appeal to me enormously. They are as follows: 
There is another attrition of our freedoms taking place today, and this disturbs me even more than does the fomenting of industrial strife. 
This is violence in demonstrations. 
Recent events at Australian universities, which are surely the seats of civilisation, present and past, have saddened me. 
Demonstration is one thing and an important privilege of freedom. 
Riot is quite another. 
I have no doubt whatever that management is at times as much at fault in industrial disputes as are the unions, but  management is precluded from the use of force or violence in preventing a strike. 
The statements go on to mention the responsibilities of unions. Who is the man who said these things? He is not the Labor-appointed Governor-General, an honourable man, as head of state in this country. He is the Governor of South Australia. To my regret, some time ago members of my own Party criticised his appointment. He was called a left wing appointment, a neo-communist and all sorts of things. He retired today with the biggest reputation of any Governor who has presided over a State- in this case the State of South Australia. I ask honourable members of the Australian Labor Party to listen to the remarks he made because they are valid. 
I agree I have been selective, but I have only 30 seconds left to speak. I have left out his remarks about industrial disputes sometimes being the responsibility of management and I left out his comments on the Central Intelligence Agency; but I am not here to talk about these matters tonight. What I am here to do is to remind members of the Opposition that as their pre-selection is determined by unions in most cases, they have some responsibility to the Australian people, and that is all that the Governor of South Australia meant to convey by his remarks. There are responsibilities on the Opposition, and I hope honourable members opposite will take the Governor's remarks to heart. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, let me say that the matter of public importance is 'the Government's perfunctory response to the unemployment crisis'. It occurs to me that the honourable member for Gellibrand has considerably enlarged the area of debate. I thought I should just make that comment in passing. 
-Order! In accordance with the order of the House of 1 8 February 1 976 1 propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I commend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on many of the utterances he has just made. It is a change to see some degree of responsibility coming from the Opposition benches on the matter of rural estimates which we are debating this afternoon. However, the honourable member for Port 
Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who spoke some time ago, seems not to have learned from the mistakes of his Party in office. We cannot differentiate between the state of the economy, the degree of inflation, the increase in costs, the lack of an export competitive position, the huge increase in freights and other matters that affect rural industries, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide attempted to do. It is just not realistic to do so. We cannot look at the economy industry by industry and ask what the Government has done for each industry until we first of all go to the main problem, and the main problem which has put rural industries in the position in which they are today is inflation. Rural industries, which have not got an arbitration commission and which have not got the weight of industrial might behind them, cannot live with high inflation. This Government, supported by people like me, will continue to try to tackle the No. 1 enemy of the future well-being of rural industries- inflation. I will touch on that subject a little later. 
Before I get off the general topic, there is much evidence to back up my contention. The last was given at the Senate committee inquiry into the wine industry in Adelaide some weeks ago. Having discussed fully all the problems of the wine industry, questioning revealed that the general view was that the No. 1 enemy was inflation and that if we could control inflation, the wine industry would have some hope of profitably trading in the future. Let us now look at costs. I commend the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  on his graphic description of the decreasing returns that a wide range of rural people are getting today. What is the reason? The fact is that processing costs, abattoir costs, cannery costs, the cost of labour, of raw materials and of fertilisers- all costs- thanks to the government of the last 3 years have risen completely out of control. The major job for this Government in order to overcome the position we have inherited is to attempt to control those costs. Let me put the cost ratio of the honourable member for Darling Downs in a slightly different way. Over the last 3 years, for every unit of price increase that the primary producer has received, costs have gone up five units. 
The other terrible, damaging effect that raging inflation and high costs have had is on the competitive position of all exporting rural industries. I shall mention again some figures which I have mentioned before in the House. In the past 3 years in which the Whitlam Government was in office the average wage in America went up by 39 per cent. In this country it went up by 102 per cent. Our cost of production in nearly all areas, including manufacturing industry, is now considerably ahead of the cost of production in America, and this is another problem that we have inherited from the previous Government. Somehow or other these costs have to be controlled if primary industries, other than the mining industry, are ever to be profitable again, on export markets. 
We can contend, as honourable members do from time to time, and not only on the other side of the chamber, that we must have more welfare provisions and more care for the aged, that we must have more expenditure on education and a wide range of welfare requirements. But we cannot do so, if the position of the income earning industries of this nation is ruined. We must have a base on which to introduce the proper, decent and sincere feelings that we all manifest in regard to welfare provisions before we can bring them into effect, and one of the first things that this Government has to do is try to remove some of the hindrances, to try to gear rural industries to a totally new situation, because there can be no going back to the cost structure of days of the past, and to try to help these constructive industries, dollar earning industries, to get back on their feet. 
Freight charges have almost doubled in 3 years. It is fine to have the Australian National Line giving its employees good conditions. When we take into account weekends, public holidays and what have you, they get about 5 months of the year on holidays. That is marvellous and nobody could wish for people living away from home a better set of conditions, but only if the country can afford them. If the granting of these conditions threatens to cut off the very lifeblood overseas earnings- on which we found all our expenditure in the welfare state, we should look carefully at them. 
Let me run through, in the few minutes I have left, some of the things the Labor Government did achieve. It threatened to wreck the wool industry's floor price scheme but the scheme was saved by Caucus at the last minute. It succeeded in telling farmers they had never had it so good. It took off 3 dairying bounties, scrubbed the superphosphate bounty and cut out the sales tax exemption on carbonated soft drinks thus leaving idle machinery throughout horticultural areas such as the Goulburn Valley. It removed various deductions from taxable income, some of which we have already reintroduced. It generally destroyed the rural confidence of that time. It destroyed our export position. It ruined the brandy industry and put it in a position from which it will probably never recover. But worse still, in the hunt for cheap votes it drove a wedge between rural and city interests, and that will take a long time to overcome. We need in this Parliament more people who will point out that the interests of both sectors are complementary and that one sector cannot exist without giving sympathy to the other. 
Some of our policies, and we have 3 years to bring them in, are proving more difficult than we thought they would. However, we are determined to introduce a young farmers' scheme to help young farmers purchase their own land. The proposal to establish a rural bank, I am glad to say, is showing more promising signs of coming to fruition than it did a few months ago. We have introduced income equalisation deposits which, peculiarly, will help turn small farms into viable farms in the wheat and wool industries now and later on in the beef industry. We intend to tackle death duties in due course. We on the back bench are determined to do this. We intend looking at averaging provisions and preferably apply them to all sections of the community whose incomes fluctuate violently. Already we have looked at welfare provisions. We have for the first time granted the unemployment benefit to those people in rural areas who were affected by the devastation of the last 3 years. Family allowances are helping those on low incomes and new Australians in many horticultural industries. 
Finally, no matter how the Government interferes with or subsidises or gives indirect aid to rural industries, these industries will never fully recover economically until inflation and some of the costs I have mentioned are controlled. The Opposition does not seem to understand the gravity of its own actions. I return to where I started: We have the terribly difficult task of trying to get a reasonable proportion of the end price back into the hands of the primary producers. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Transport 
Proposed expenditure, $254,721,000. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

I think that questions about moral responsibility arise in the new means test. There is the question of equity. A situation can arise in which a person with property worth very large sums of money can, because of the means test, receive a pension. It is not inconceivable that some people may have property that will be worth a million or so dollars as a result of capital appreciation following the urban sprawl, the conversion of land from rural use to residential use. This is the sort of gain which can be and often is made. Why should the rest of the community be required to pay tax to subsidise that sort of person, to provide him with a pension? Again, why should a young couple in difficult circumstances, raising a family with all the debts and liabilities that come at that stage of life and on a very modest income, be required to contribute a proportion of their income tax to pay the pensions of those people who, if they realised on their assets, would be in a handsomely adequate position? 
One can think of a whole range of dodges which can be developed so that one does not have income coming in although one has substantial assets. For instance a private company reinvesting to improve the capital worth of the company and avoid any profit flow. The principals might even employ their family and pay very inflated incomes to them to avoid profit flow. A company might even get to the point of bringing in- and this may be probably quite unlawful but hard to detect- some system of kickbacks to the family. There is a whole range of possible abuses that can be, and because they can be will undoubtedly be, adopted as a result of this change. There should have been some provision for a capital gains tax or net worth tax as Professor Henderson recommended in his report to avoid this sort of inequity. 
I will cite the example of family allowances to relate the point that I made earlier; that is, that people are better off because of the new family allowances system. Previously we introduced a tax rebate which was worth $3.85 a week for each child. If that had been indexed for this year, as it would have been if this benefit had been left in the system of taxation, the amount would have become $4.35 a week this year. That would mean with child endowment for the first child a total payment of $4.85 as against a payment under the new arrangements of $3.50. Therefore a family with one child will be $1.35 a week worse off as a result of the new family allowance. Again in the case of a family with 2 children the indexed tax rebate with child endowment would have been $10.20 against a family allowance of $8.50. Therefore a family of this size is $1.70 a week worse off. The figures continue in that way as a result of indexing the tax rebate and relating it to child endowment. In all cases, families are worse off each week, and if they are paying Medibank tax on top of that they are considerably worse off. 
In the period during which the Labor Government was in office many initiatives were taken in the field of social welfare and many improvements were made. Overall, responsibility for social welfare loomed much larger than was the case with any previous government of the previous two decades. As a proportion of gross domestic product, we took total outlays from 4.4 per cent in 1971-72 to over 6.0 per cent. When Labor was in Opposition it acknowledged the responsibility and when it came into Government it discharged that responsibility. There is mounting evidence that the present Government will seek to unwind that commitment which we entered into for the benefit of the community. 
-The honourable member for Oxley has moved an amendment. Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is leave granted? 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. What effect does the Minister anticipate Canada's intention to control meat imports will have on Australian beef exports? Does the Minister regard statements attributed to  Mr Whelan,  the Canadian Minister for Agriculture, as being justifiable? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197610214_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

Under the Australian Labor Party Government the agreement proposed by my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who will follow me in this debate, when he was the Minister for Housing and Construction, was a far sighted proposal- that is the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
He tried to alleviate the problems which faced the lower income groups. As I say, the position has now worsened to such an extent, particularly in urban Melbourne and Sydney, that the price of a house has been put out of the reach of those people who earn up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. The reason for this is the high repayments needed. 
In Victoria the crisis facing the residential sector is a little better. The industry is working at near full capacity and there are hopes for further improvement during the rest of this financial year. There may be some better results. But there is a problem of major proportion on the horizon. This is the problem of a shortage of serviced residential land and related pressure on prices, particularly in Victoria. This Government, which has no policies for urban and regional development, is not prepared to face up to the problem. It has abandoned the only major Federal initiative ever undertaken to come to grips with this type of problem, particularly in relation to urban land. This problem faces all our major cities but it is particularly bad and worrying for the people and the industry in Sydney and Melbourne. This Government does not recognise the nature of the problem or, if it does, it believes that hard pressed State governments can solve the problem by themselves. The Fraser Government does not recognise the problem nor does it recognise the problems facing the people in the housing industry. 
I refer again to New South Wales in particular but this is a situation which applies in varying degrees in all States. Let us look at the lower income groups to start with. Lower income groups are, more and more being denied access to housing, whether, it be their own home or rental accommodation. One of the causes is the shortage of rental accommodation. This shortage is very acute in Sydney. Let me make no bones about it. Without an upturn in the New South Wales economy there is no hope for an upturn in the nation's economy. In Queensland additional welfare housing funds are justifiable on both human and economic grounds. Once again, the resources are available and they will be needed in the future. In today's economic climate it is completely justifiable for this appropriation to be increased. The Opposition believes that there could be an increase in allocation of up to $ 100m this financial year. The resources that are needed exist in New South Wales. It alone could absorb another $75m. If that extra amount  could be allocated it would mean that about 3000 extra homes could be built there this year. This would not put excess pressure on the economy of that 
State. In fact, it would give the required drive necessary to stimulate the economy of that State. As I have said, that State would get the multiplier effect which would flow into other industries such as the white goods industry, the furnishing industry and the textile industry. This extra money would be utilised in other States. Money could be made available to Queensland. Other money could be allocated to a minor degree to other States. Basically, the major thrust should be in New South Wales. 
Further assistance could be given to Queensland to try to stimulate 2 sectors of the economy. The housing sector alone is an acute area. The agreement deals with a very human problem. To some degree there are 2 areas which it does not assist. It does not assist the very poor. In other words, to some extent those people living in housing commission homes are what we might call a sector of the poor which is respectable. There is another sector with social problems which this Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement does not assist. The former Government, under the Australian Housing Corporation, was trying to move into that sector and to create co-operatives so that houses could be acquired in certain areas. New areas of housing policy will have to be examined. There may be some areas where people will have to be given direct subsidy assistance. These are the people in lower income brackets who really need assistance. At this stage they cannot get housing under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
I mentioned the other difficult area earlier. It is the area where people earn between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. In Australia 48 per cent of the people earn up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings, and 40 per cent of the people earn incomes between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. So I am now talking about the area which covers 85 per cent of the Australian people. During this debate the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  interjected about the problems of those people on 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. The question was asked: Why can they not meet the situation? Basically, 1 believe the real problem occurs because of spiralling land prices. That is possibly why there is a waiting list for welfare housing in New South Wales of 32 000 people whereas in Victoria the figure is only 21 000. 
In metropolitan Sydney urban land is so dear that the average price for a block of land and a new dwelling, even in the western suburbs of Sydney, is something much higher than the national average of $33,000. To repay a loan on a new dwelling and land costing $33,000 is very difficult. Average weekly earnings in Australia at present are around $180 a week. A person receiving $180 a week could not repay a loan of even $20,000 because on a loan of $20,000, at an interest rate of 10 per cent per annum over a period of 20 years, the repayments would amount to $193 a month. That figure would be far in excess of 25 per cent of the income of a person on average weekly earnings. Therefore we have to find some way in which we can get that group of people back with their feet on the ladder. 
I know that there is no easy way out of this difficulty. When we were in government we tried to grapple with this problem. One of the proposals we put forward to overcome this problem was what is called a deferred mortgage repayment scheme. In other words, in the earlier years of the repayment period one pays less in repayments, and then more on the longer term. Within the Department of Urban and Regional Development, which I administered, there was a great deal of study of this scheme to determine an appropriate formula. The scheme has been used by housing societies in Britain for many years. Some Australian firms are now using it. However, I am aware that the scheme has certain limitations. If interest rates remain high- as I think they will for years ahead- we may have to give some consideration to a subsidy scheme if we want to maintain the proportion of home ownership. We may have to subsidise interest rates by 2 per cent for a loan on a first home for people earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. This subsidy could be paid for the first 5 years. This would allow people to get their feet on the ladder. After 5 years of course they could begin to pay normal loan rates. 
I realise that before introducing such a scheme it would have to be studied carefully with consideration being given to the resources available to the Government. I am not saying that it will be a magic wand solution. I am saying that it would have to be studied in the broad context of the economy. Because of the cost of housing and land we are moving in the direction of having to consider such proposals. 
In present conditions a person repaying a loan of $20,000 at 10 per cent interest pays $193 a month. If the interest rate were reduced to 8 per cent the monthly repayment would be only $ 1 6 7, which would mean a monthly reduction of $26. In the case of a $25,000 loan-which would be nearer to the mark for an average home in the western suburbs of Sydney which now costs more than $33,000- the present repayment at 10 per cent interest is $241 monthly. If a 2 per cent subsidy were paid it would reduce the repayment to $209, or a saving of $32 a month. In the case of a loan of $30,000- this is not an unreasonable loan for a house today- at 10 per cent interest the repayment is $289 monthly. But if a 2 per cent subsidy were given the figures would be reduced to $250 a month, and therefore mean a saving of $39 a month. 
I am aware that this type of proposal is very costly, but we have to look basically at the housing industry and consider whether in metropolitan Sydney and Melbourne in particular people- I am talking about the great majority of people- will in fact be able to buy their own blocks of land and build their own homes. We are getting to a stage now where they are being priced out of the housing area and in the 2 major metropolises of this nation young people cannot afford to buy their own homes. I am not for one moment saying that there is an easy solution. Under the present Agreement established under the Labor Government money is made available at a subsidised rate of 4 per cent. With the longterm bond rate at about 10 per cent that means we are providing about a 6 per cent subsidy on these funds, and if such a provision can be made we can surely look at other arrangements. If we really need the stimulus necessary to keep the building industry going we may have to examine such a proposal as I put forward. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Order! The question before the Chair is: 'That the question be now put'. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Order! I wonder whether the honourable member will stop his speech there. Would the honourable member for Robertson like to recognise the Chair when he comes into the chamber and then take his seat? 
-Order! The honourable member for Chifley will be entitled in a minute to rise and make a speech. 
The facts are that the capacity of the coal loader in Port Kembla is to be doubled which will double the amount of road traffic already making the Appin Road and the Picton road death traps.. The main road from the southern highlands to the Port Kembla area running through the Macquarie Pass is a disaster area. As a main road, it is totally untenable. It also happens to be in my electorate and I am obliged to use it regularly. I am well aware of the risks to life and limb to people who follow huge trucks up and down this road. It is clearly an export road. The New South Wales State Government has $6m lying idle and is too incompetent to ask that this money be directed to an area in which it is clearly needed. It would rather have the money doing nothing than provide it for use where it is needed. 
The upgrading of the Port Kembla coal loader will mean that the town of Picton in my electorate will be increasingly inundated with coal trucks. I asked the Minister for Transpot  (Mr Nixon)  in June of this year would he, if he were requested by the New South Wales State Government - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member will make his point of order. He knows that the honourable member for Macarthur has only 5 minutes in which to make his speech. 
-Did the Minister for Primary Industry have a worthwhile meeting on Monday with various people interested in the restructuring of the Australian Meat Board? Could he perceive any encouraging signs by way of a consensus emerging? If not, will he give maximum thought to the Government Parties Rural Committee report on this subject which, of course, in my view is so much better than other views that have been expressed? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I do not wish tonight to reintroduce debates which have already been held. 
Certainly,  Mr Speaker,  on a technical point. I do not wish to reintroduce debates that have been held outside this place- that is what I meant- concerning whether cattle should have been slaughtered in this country in the past 6 months as a result of the ravages of drought and for other reasons and should or should not have been sent to developing countries to augment their breeding stock in incipient dairy industries. I do not wish to do that, because, quite frankly, I for one thought that the argument was absurd. By and large, the stock that has been killed off was old and perhaps three quartered. We have slaughtered mastitis affected stock, bad type stock and those dear old things that could barely walk and which were really bags of hide walking along with bone inside and little else. I do not believe that 2 per cent of the stock that was slaughtered could have helped developing countries. So let us dismiss that argument. 
Let us dismiss also the arguments that have been put up to those in my party by  Mr Barnes  who set up the reconstitution plants for the Australian Dairy Board. He suggested that we should supply skimmed milk powder and butter oil into that system to help needy people and children. Let us forget that proposal also because we now have no more skimmed milk powder left in this country. 
What I want to do tonight, having dismissed the past, is to pick up the debate from that point. Quite patently we are facing a position in which everybody who has thought the proposition through realises that the size of the dairy herd of this country should be decreased. The situation posed to us is concerned with our next door neighbours who want dairy cattle to start their own national milking herd of the future. We now get down to the clear proposition which I wish to put to the House tonight. Those cattle which should be looked at as a means of helping developing nations and which should be provided in their thousands to those countries are yearling cattle or younger. The reasons for selecting these cattle include the facts that they can be moved more easily, their lives are in front of them, and they are not diseased. There are many ways in which it will be seen that what I have made is a valid suggestion. 
If we take this step, what are the implications? First, as I said, the countries to our north want yearling heifers or younger, and not broken down cows. Secondly, we should provide this stock when our industry is in a state of surplus. That condition might not last much longer. We are now in a position to make a real donation to the developing countries which wish to help themselves. Surely the way to provide assistance is to give breeding stock to these countries for the future. I believe that it is morally quite wrong if we do not take this action. I believe that this form of government involvement should take place as the voluntary agencies are doing their best to augment existing stocks at this time. I believe further that this would be of great help to the dairy industry itself as it would provide some form of government assistance through the purchase of stock which in the future will become surplus and at the same time would help the developing nations to our north. 
We have been told tonight by a former member of this Parliament that he has spoken to the Prime Minister of India who, after consulting with her livestock officials, seeks 10 000 young cattle. The same man has spoken to the Prime Minister of Bangladesh and has an order which he says is for even more young cattle. He has spoken to the Deputy Prime Minister of Pakistan who says that his country could use SO 000 dairy cattle of the right type. The question may be asked whether such cattle would be cared for when they arrived in these countries. I think that the answer is yes. 
The countries concerned have the infrastructure. Further proof is to be found in the fact that there are now approximately a million progeny of Australian cattle in those nations, bred from Australian stock sent to them. It is a fair proposition to claim that they will be cared for. What I wish the Government to do is in due course to answer these contentions and to determine whether the requests by the leaders of those governments are genuine. If they are genuine, I maintain that we have a moral and a direct responsibility to provide aid to those countries by exporting such stock as a form of Government aid. 
-I think I should warn the honourable member that he may not reflect on the Chair. 
I cannot think of one argument in favour of reducing the bounty. For example, overseas earnings from agriculture, despite dropping to 45 per cent of our total earnings last year, was a staggering $4,20 lm. Minerals are growing in importance certainly, but they represent only 30 per cent of our earnings, a sum of $2, 739m. Our manufacturing sector represents $ 1,937m or only 21 per cent. I am at a loss to know why the Government has seen fit at this time to reduce this bounty. I want to quote from appendix G of the Industries Assistance Commission report which sets out the historical background of this matter. It states: 
In August 1966 the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Act was introduced. The Act provides for the payment of a subsidy on manufactured nitrogen sold for use in Australia as fertilizer or as a supplement to stock feed. The main purposes of the subsidy are to reduce costs to users and to encourage the use of these fertilizers. 
The 30 per cent fall in the price of nitrogen to farmers which followed the introduction of the subsidy stimulated the application of nitrogen on all crops. Between 1965-66 and 1967-68 the consumption of nitrogen for all agricultural uses doubled, with the largest increases recorded in pasture and cereals. 
So the introduction of the bounty was justified, quite clearly, by what happened to the man on the land. I am saying clearly that a reduction in this bounty will have not only a deteriorating effect on the morale of the farmers of Australia, it will also have a significant impact on the quality of products produced on the land. We cannot afford to do this when we still get 45 per cent of our export earnings from this sector. They are the simple facts of this matter. The IAC report went on: 
The consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers peaked in the 1968-69 season, when a record area of wheat was sown. With the imposition of wheat quotas for the 1969-70 and subsequent seasons, low commodity prices, and the depressed level of rural activity generally, the consumption of nitrogen as a fertiliser fell substantially in subsequent seasons, but has remained above the 1 966-67 level. 
The facts are that right now farmers' costs have reached the stage where they have broken a tremendous number of farmers. In the last 4 years we have lost 20 000 family farmers off the land. It is the sort of action proposed in this Bill which will have an adverse effect on the remaining farmers. I would not stand here and make a plea on behalf of these people if it were not for the simple fact that the export earnings of this country are still very much in the hands of the rural producers. Despite claims to the contrary, this will be so for the foreseeable future. There can be no question about it If the rural industries of Australia collapse, Australia will follow very shortly afterwards. There can be no time left to recognise this pertinent fact. 
Little more needs to be said to get the point across that we cannot afford to bring in a measure such as this for the very reasons I have mentioned. I repeat that we are taking the bounty away not for the reasons for which we brought it in but for different reasons altogether. It was never suggested that the nitrogenous fertiliser production industry was the reason for the introduction of the bounty.  Hansard  of 1966 is full of reasons given by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. They said quite clearly that the bounty was introduced to assist the farmer. The bounty was set in those days when, as I have said, the average farm income was double the average weekly earnings. In 1976 the average farmer on $ 1 2 6 a week is getting $50 a week less than the average weekly earnings and is now expected to pay out more for his nitrogenous fertiliser. 
It is totally unfair, unjust and uncalled for that this measure should be brought in. The farmers in my electorate, the rice farmers, the farmers who grow wheat, the farmers who grow stone fruits, the farmers who grow vegetables and the farmers who graze sheep all have a need for nitrogenous fertiliser. This is why I must say in the House that I am totally opposed to the reduction of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty in any way at all. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-We just heard a snivelling, nit-picking speech by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who is becoming an expert in this sort of tactic when he has nothing else to say. Furthermore, I say that it was an attempt to seek a form of political justification. It is well known that the Australian Labor Party has wrecked a lot of industries, including the beef industry. Now it is trying to clutch at straws and by the use of the Parliament and of the broadcasting of this debate to justify its rotten record as a Government. 
I will. I am just about to commence. I shall start with a phrase which the honourable member wrongly used. He said: 'Callous regard'. I will give the honourable member the benefit and suggest that probably he meant: 'Callous disregard'. I start my speech by talking about the callous disregard of the last Labor Government and the effect it had on export industries in the rural sector of Australia. There will be no crawling out of this one by the time I have finished. Let us look at the record as it is. I suggest we look at inflation. We have had a debate on this matter today already. There is no single person in the rural areas of the community involved in export industries who does not clutch at trying to bring down tariff protection as it affects Australian industries and consumers. We might ask why. It is because it is the only area left in which these people can move. Why is that? It is because the last Government, over the last 3 years, so increased costs that the whole competitive position of Australian exports today, with the possible exception of some minerals, has become open to a great deal of doubt. That is the first point of condemnation of the last 3 years of mismanagement of the Australian economy. That is not the direct cause of the troubles of the beef industry today but it is a strong factor. The fact is that the industry is non-competitive when it looks for new markets in competition with other countries. That is the first important point. The honourable member for Blaxland who is the Opposition spokesman in this House on rural matters very rarely saunters into a paddock in case he gets stung by a bee. If he did, he would know very well that not one member of the rural community would not agree precisely with what I have said this afternoon. 
Let us go a little further. The honourable member picked on a man on this side of the parliamentary fence, namely, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  We have a great and healthy respect for the Minister. He has worked hard and diligently up and down the countryside to do everything he possibly can to alleviate some of the problems which are occurring due to Labor's mismanagement over the past 3 years. He is left with the job of trying to pick up the threads following the total irresponsibility which has been going on. Let us have a look at one or two of the points concerned, such as killing works. I suggest that we leave aside- it might be considered political- the question of whether the owners of the souls of the current members of the Opposition are the trade unions which take advantage of blackmail in killing works. The unions always strike in the middle of a glut. There has not been a spring in Adelaide during the last few years when the unions have not gone out because it is spring and because the farmers' stock is coming in at that time of the year. I cannot remember one year which they have missed. I do not know whether their souls are owned by these people who are so irresponsible as far as the country is concerned. I do know that if we look at the cost of killing a year ago. which is when I last looked, we find that one firm had exactly doubled the cost of killing inside 3 years. 
What does that do to help the competitive position of beef producers? I perceive a notable lack of answers to that question. The reason is that this cost has made it much more difficult to meet any export markets, except that of the United States of America. It has forced the Australian Meat Board and Government spokesmen not only to go and look for new markets but also to find them. This is contrary to the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland. New markets have been found- they are good ones too- in Israel and in Arab states. Sweden has been opened up as a profitable market. In a lot of risk markets the Meat Board has the job of trying to get incentives into all exporters in order to keep up the increasing rate of slaughter of Australian cattle and to try to do something to lower the rate of increase of the national beef herd today. One could go on. I think the honourable member, quite frankly, has forgotten that this Bill is only about carry-on loans. It has nothing to do with other forms of loans. It has nothing to do with loans to the States in an indirect sense. It has directly and it amounts to a total of $30m on top of last year's expenditure for beef producers. But this relates to the pure field of carry-on finance which, of course, is not applicable to some producers. So bad is the mess caused by increasing costs in the beef industry today that recently when I led members of the rural committee on an inspection of the brigalow scheme we ran into an appalling situation which I think, quite frankly, in many cases is way outside the totality of this Bill which we are debating today. In area 3 of Brigalow the total debt structure on land, stock and plant averages $108,500 for those who have been there for longer than 3 years. For those who have been there less than 3 years- with less time to put it up, one might think, but of course they missed the high beef price of that time- the total debt is $137,000. What hope have those people got? Across the general beef industry spectrum in States like Queensland, which has been favoured by this Government in the past with a higher loan limit than for other States, and now pastoral areas are going to be added on to the area of Queensland, I hope that generally these carry-on loans will be of great help. 
I want to spend a moment on areas like the Brigalow, for which I feel a great deal of sadness and in some ways an emotional attachment. If one goes from farm to farm one can see people who are trying to make their way on the brigalow scrub, living in tin sheds, in timber houses slapped together pretty quickly, and in some cases in lean-to tents. One comprehends then the determination still in the Australian spirit to go out and try to carve an existence out of the scrub. It is very heartening to see. In relation to the Brigalow, there are odd areas and pockets in Australia, such as those in the Goulburn Valley where the Victorian Government is involved with the canning fruit industry, which are perhaps not typical of the overall agricultural well-being throughout the area. Where there is such a pocket, there is a responsibility not only on this Government to go and look at the problem and do what it can to help. There is also a responsibility on the State governments to pick up some of the load, and in this Bill they have done so to the tune of 50 per cent. But where there is a pocket which is going badly wrong, it must be and probably should be the responsibility of State governments to put forward propositions for help. 
Examples of where this has been done before are legion. At present it is happening in my own electorate in the Riverland area, where the State Government is taking specific action to help the canning fruit growers. In the case of the brigalow, in reply to correspondence pointing out that the Queensland Government itself has a responsibility in these areas, I have replied consistently that if they come to Federal Treasurers looking for specific assistance for a particular area which through no fault of the blockers is going wrong, then I am sure that they will find Federal governments very sympathetic in relation to helping the State governments in particular ways. The honourable member for Blaxland is still imbued with the centralist tendencies of his own Party. He insists that this Government is responsible for everything that goes on. I have mentioned one case where we are not primarily responsible, and if we were, it would be because we had found finance- in some ways unwisely as a Federal government- to help develop the brigalow scheme. 
Let me return to the Bill, which some honourable members might think is a pleasant change. The scheme provides low interest carry-on finance to specialist beef producers with a sound asset structure who have a chance of being viable when beef markets return to normal conditions; that is, if their costs after the last few years still allow them to be competitive. Up to 2 years carry-on finance will be provided with a loan limit of $15,000 a year. As I said before, currently that applies only to Queensland but it is now to be extended to all eligible producers in the pastoral zone who are on pastoral or similar leases. In his second reading speech the Minister stated: 
Limits in all areas may be relaxed in special circumstances at the discretion of the loan administering authority. 
I am hopeful that that particular clause will allow, even within the framework of this Bill which deals with carry-on finance, a certain amount of dispensation for those in the Brigalow scrub area, particularly in area 3. 1 like the wording of that clause, and I hope that the administering authority will take a fairly sympathetic view when interpreting the clause. I will finish on this note: In these areas, in spite of the degree of poverty, there is hardly a person who does not acknowledge the difficulty of the situation in relation to beef exports, a difficulty which the Government has undertaken to try to resolve. If one goes there today one will find that they acknowledge very much the great help given to them by the new child endowment provisions. In some areas they acknowledge the Government's action to allow unemployment benefits to flow to rural areas. 
-It would have to be in some of it, I am sure. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  knows a lot about that. People there are waiting, as are many members of this House today, for the final agreements between the State and the Federal Ministers for rural industries, whom the honourable member for Blaxland attempted this afternoon in a rather amateurish fashion, I thought, to condemn. People are waiting for the public announcement on the final agreements on rural reconstruction in the broad sense, and that will be made in a week or so when the parties meet. I hope there will be some good news in that field to add to the Bill before the House today. 
I have mentioned new markets. I have mentioned the fact that when industries go wrong oppositions find it easy to blame governments. When things go wrong in rural areas they sometimes look for a scapegoat, and I think that the Meat Board and the  chairman  of that Board are probably examples of people trying to find a scapegoat when prices have plummeted. To my mind, the rural committee has produced an excellent paper dealing with the restructuring of the Meat Board. I hope that before the end of the year we will have some news of that because I think it is the sort of action which is necessary to give further heart to people who have been hit by this dreadful downturn in world prices and, at the same time, by the huge increases in costs with which they have had to contend. I support the Bill. 
-Is leave granted? 
-I would not try it. 
He also talked about the structural adjustment schemes. If he were to use those schemes on the Australian Labor Party as far as I can see that is where they would be most effective. Perhaps then the Labor Party would be able to provide a better Opposition in this House and in Queensland. Queenslanders have decimated the Labor Party in that State and the Labor Party now has only 1 1 members in a House of 84 members. In the judgment of Queenslanders the Premier of that State who has been denigrated in this House tonight stands as high as any Premier of that State. He is still prepared to stand up to all the criticisms coming his way and he stands high in the eyes of Queenslanders generally. I believe that a lot of those comments made against him tonight are the result of bitter feelings because of the success achieved by his Queensland Government and it does not do the honourable member for Adelaide who has just spoken or his Party any good to give the type of oration he gave tonight in the debate on a grants Bill. 
The honourable member also talked of secession. It was spoken about in Western Australia too. Are the Western Australian people to be denigrated for thinking of seceding because they felt that they were not getting all that they thought they should? I do not believe in secession but the Premier of Queensland is not the only one who has talked about it. It has been talked about in States when people feel they are not getting the treatment they should get from this national Parliament. They are entitled to their opinion. The Queensland people have backed their Premier and will continue to do so. There is no question about that. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment to Queensland of $2 7m in special assistance grants. In his remarks in this respect the honourable member for Adelaide was dealing with the Bill. He talked about States coming cap in hand. Surely if there is an arrangement whereby States can apply for these grants why should it be called coming cap in hand if they do? What about the contribution which Queensland has made to the soundness of the national economy and our balance of payments? The honourable member brushed over this very lightly, but the Premier has mentioned it. What about the exports from Queensland which have assisted the national balance of payments to the great advantage of every Australian? Those are the things that are sometimes forgotten and they apply also to Western Australian. 

 Mr Keith Johnson- This is Bjelke-Petersen propaganda. 
Some criticism was offered of Queensland because it will do away with death duties at the beginning of next year. This is a progressive move and one which is accepted in many areas of the Commonwealth as being long overdue. A progressive government has made this decision and it is a move that will be followed elsewhere. Other States will not follow it too closely because they do not like to give Queensland that much credit, but they will follow it. The Commonwealth Government is moving in that direction and it may well be that other States will follow the lead of this very progressive and able State Government. The criticism of it was quite unjust. 
Death duties are an iniquitous tax. People, particularly primary producers who have a viable business probably carrying a debt, can be forced to the verge of insolvency or even into insolvency because of death duties. It has happened many time. They cannot sell part of an estate to pay probate or succession duties and so the whole of the estate is forced on to the market at any one time. It would not be a viable proposition if they were to sell part of the estate anyway. This is one of the criticisms of this tax but no mention was made of it by the Opposition tonight. Queensland is to be complimented on what it has done down the years. The money it has received through grants from the Grants Commission has been well and faithfully applied to the advantage of Queensland and the Commonwealth. I am quite confident that the Queensland Government will make very good use of the funds provided under this legislation. 
If this Parliament feels that it should not be making these grants it is up to the Parliament to say so. However, we will not get any opposition from anybody because honourable members opposite are not prepared to show their opposition because they know that if they did they would not have even the 1 1 members that they now have in the Queensland Parliament. So there is no opposition to this Bill. The principle behind making grants to the less populous States is sound, particularly in the promotion of the balanced development of this nation and that, I believe, was the statesmanlike thought which brought this scheme about in the first place. I commend the Bill. 
-Order! There are too many interjections. It would help if the honourable gentleman would address the chair. 
Environment, the continual criticisms and charges by the then Opposition, the present Government, that I was doing nothing to save Fraser Island. It was quite clear from the sentiments expressed by members of the Liberal and National Country Parties that the Fraser Island controversy was seen to be a significant problem for the government of the day. Much of the emphasis in the criticism against us was of our failure as a government to protect Fraser Island. So, having established, in accordance with the environmental protection legislation, a committee of inquiry, we were prepared to await results of that inquiry and then be guided by the findings of fact of the inquiry in order to determine what our future policy should be. That was the condition under which approval was given for mining of the leases that are now in question. 
If honourable members look at the record as it is set out in the report of the inquiry or if they look at the parliamentary record they will find that the Minister for Minerals and Energy at that time made it quite clear that any extensions and any further export licences would depend upon the environmental assessment being undertaken by the inquiry. I shall not comment on the observations made about the capacity or otherwise of those who constituted the inquiry. One has to live with oneself when one makes observations like that. I simply comment on some of the conclusions drawn by the Commission of Inquiry. For example on page 67, the conclusion was drawn:  . . . Fraser Island is of great environmental importance. It is of aesthetic, historic, scientific and social significance for the present community, and for future generations of Australians, as well as being of international environmental significance. 
Of course it is only a big heap of sand. That happens to be one of its major points of significance. It is the largest sand island in the world. It happens to be one of the few remaining areas where nature is still mainly unaffected. 
-Order! These interjections are a little bit too robust and too consistent. I do not think they either help the honourable member- that may be the point of the interjections- or add to the decorum of the House. 
I think the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in answering a question on this subject today mentioned- he did not quote- what to him was perhaps the paragraph in this report which best epitomised the argument in favour of the action he has agreed to take and about which he has advised the Queensland Premier. He mentioned the last paragraph on page 184. He did not quote it, but I shall. It states: 
Looking at the evidence as a whole- 
He said he agreed with this- it is difficult to identify any more environmentally significant and fragile area on the Island than that covered by MLs 102, 95 and the nearby mining leases of Queensland Titanium Mines Pry Ltd, MLs 84, 104 and 105. The environmental aspects of decisions having the effect of permitting the mining of all or any of these Teases will involve major permanent and irreversible environmental harm to the landscape, vegetation and lakes of the island and, consequently, substantially damage its value to the Australian people. 
That view stated in the report is the opinion of the Prime Minister, the leader of the honourable members opposite. For these reasons the Australian Labor Party welcomes the decision to support the recommendations. 
Now let me come to the people because, of course, I share the view of honourable members opposite. People are important. If there were no people Fraser Island would be irrelevant either as a mining venture or as a tourist resort. With no people it would be nothing. It is people which give it value of one sort or another because people place a value on it. Of course people are important. Of course it is easy for people in Melbourne, Hobart or even here in Canberra who are far away from the action to decide that because they think it is a good thing it ought to be saved. People like supporters of the National Country Party and the people they represent who are involved in earning a living on the island feel that the burden is entirely upon them. But the report recognises this fact. I shall read the second recommendation to honourable members because it seems that they have not read the report. The first recommendation was that all mining should stop. The second recommendation states: 
Appropriate economic and other assistance be given to the extent that adverse regional economic effects follow the implementation of Recommendation 1. 
The whole concept of the environmental impact statement procedure envisages that people's rights come first. But it is not just the right to earn a living; it is the right to enjoy the environment, to appreciate things of aesthetic beauty, and to be whatever it is that makes us humans and not animals. That is more than just eating; it is appreciating and understanding the sorts of things that are recognised in this report. 
I am not sure yet that there is any criticism to be made, but I am prepared to side with the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on this matter because he has posed questions to the Government. Bearing in mind what the commissioners said about the need to be concerned for the people, a radical departure from previous behaviour may be involved. Let us consider what is being done. I think that this matter goes beyond Australia. Fraser Island probably belongs to the world's heritage. In fact, the Labor Government contemplated trying to put it into the World Heritage Register. 
If we demand that sort of sacrifice from the people in that area, in my view the Australian community is morally obliged to carry a larger burden in ensuring that those people do not suffer personally. It is not their fault that they went there in good faith in order to engage in timber lopping or sand mining at a time when everybody on all sides of the political spectrum throughout the country accepted it. I grant that; but we have changed our values. We are not the same people as we were 5 years ago. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-The only way I know of by which you can do that is to seek leave of the House to ask a question or to make a statement. 
Would the Minister for Primary Industry care to elaborate on his Press statement and on Government policy relating to household support for near-bankrupt primary producers? Who would decide eligibility - 
-There is no substance in the point of order. I think that that has been already covered. 
At least I am pleased to have the assurance that there will be adequate time to formulate amendments. I certainly hope that the time provided to debate the amendments will also prove to be adequate because many honourable members on this side of the Committee will want to speak about them. The Minister today has drawn attention to very dramatic changes in the legislation, the abrogation by this Parliament in many respects of very important issues and the transfer of responsibility for those issues to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory; matters to which the Aboriginal people, in their organisations around Australia, have already expressed very strong opposition. We have had vague assurances about what the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  will do to put the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs into the picture about these things. We have been told about how the Legislative Assembly will cooperate and all the rest, but this sounds very vague and unless it is incorporated in this legislation it does not seem very meaningful to me. 
I doubt whether I will have time today to talk about the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill although I would like to do so because I was the Minister who first introduced such legislation into this Parliament. I doubt whether I will have time to talk about the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill and I would like to do so since I was the first Minister to introduce a Bill into the House which contains the concept now contained in that legislation. I will have to content myself with making some remarks about the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. On 16 October last year on behalf of the Whitlam Government, I introduced into this House a Bill with the same title as that before the House today. On that occasion I said: 
In the field of Aboriginal Affairs, this is undoubtedly the most important legislation ever to be introduced into the Australian Parliament. 
For most urgent and vastly different reasons this Bill is equally important to the Aboriginal people. In form the Bill introduced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on 4 June this year loosely follows the Bill I introduced 12 months ago. In substance, however, this Bill radically alters the aims of the 1975 Bill and substantially modifies the recommendations and intentions of  Mr Justice  Woodward whose reports formed the basis of the Labor Government's Bill. 
The establishment of the Woodward Royal Commission and the consequent introduction in 1975 of the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill was a direct result of the 1972 commitment by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that a Labor Government would legislate to give Aboriginals land rights, 'not just because their case is beyond argument, but because all of us as Australians are demeaned while the 
Aboriginal people are denied their rightful place in this nation'. Those were the comments of the Leader of the Opposition in 1972. That pledge came after 23 years of neglect of the Aboriginal people by the Liberal-Country Party coalition and in particular their outspoken claims for land rights. A further indication of the morale and standing of the Aboriginal people in Australia was given by the Senate on 20 February last year when it carried a motion moved by Australia's first Aboriginal parliamentary representative,  Senator Bonner.  That motion was: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1 788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay . . . 
That motion was accepted by all parties in the Parliament, including the National Country Party, despite the misgivings and disquiet it aroused from the National Country Party's colleagues in the Northern Territory. 
The legislation we are debating today represents a cynical sellout to the National Country Party and other vested interests in the Northern Territory. It represents yet another nail in the coffin of Aboriginal self-determination, yet another inspired step back in Aboriginal affairs by the Liberal and National Country parties. This legislation, if passed without substantial amendment, will be a tangible indictment of this Parliament and, in particular, this Government for its failure to respond to the needs and aspirations of the indigenous people of Australia living in the Northern Territory. The Bill before the House has so vastly changed the intentions of the Bill I introduced last year that many Aboriginal organisations have contemplated opposing the Bill in its entirety. The Opposition, however, with the support of large numbers of interested parties, including the Australian Council of Churches, the Northern and Central Land Councils of the Northern Territory and vast numbers of Aboriginal groups and communities will not oppose it. Despite the Government's proposed intention to patch up this legislation at the Committee stage, and that was what the statement by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs today was all about, the Opposition intends to move a substantial number of amendments. It is hoped that the Government will see fit to accept these amendments in the spirit in which they will be movedthat of representing to the people and, in particular, the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory a bipartisan policy on land rights. 
The history of Aboriginal, claims for land in this Parliament goes back over a number of years. However, let me take as my starting point the claim made in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory in the case of Millirrpum v. Nabalco and the Commonwealth in 1968, which is known as the Gove land rights case. In that case,  Mr Justice  Blackburn, speaking on the question of land and in relation to the Aboriginal people, said: 
The fundamental truth about the Aboriginals' relationship to the land ... is that whatever else it is . . . it is a religious relationship. There is an unquestioned scheme of things in which the Spirit Ancestors, the people of the clan, particular land, and everything that exists on and in it are organic parts of one indissoluble whole . . . 

 Mr Justice Blackburn went on to discuss the doctrine of 'communal native title', the central question in the Gove land case. The basis of the Aboriginal claim was that their predecessors laid claim in 1 788 when the subject land became part of New South Wales to those parts of the subject land then before the court and claimed by Nabalco and the Commonwealth. The court rejected the Aboriginal claim that the Aboriginal social and economic system was such that the territory acquired by the Crown in 1788 was a conquered rather than a settled or occupied territory. From this central point  Mr Justice  Blackburn held that the Aboriginal parliament, through the Imperial Parliament of Great Britain, could exercise power over the whole of the Commonwealth and in particular that land claimed before the court. In the interim report of the commission established to investigate how land rights could be granted statutorily,  Mr Justice  Woodward, who was a counsel in the Gove land rights case, pointed out that the Aboriginal concepts related to land owning have no parallel in European law. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  an extract from the first report of  Mr Justice  Woodward on Aboriginal land rights, entitled  Aborigines and Their Land. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Order The honourable member for Parramatta is on the speakers' list and will be able to speak in a little while to come. I hope that he will retain his patience until that glorious moment. 
Some comment must also be made about other important changes in the Bill. Firstly, in relation to power over roads, the 1975 Act gave the Aboriginal councils power to control the use of roads running through their land. The 1976 Bill makes all such roads public places. Thus the Aboriginal people have no effective control over tourists and others who now enter their land, destroy their privacy, and in many cases infringe their traditional religious and sacred sites. Yet another important omission from this legislation is that provision of the 1975 Act which extended Aboriginal land rights 2 kilometres into the sea. This omission has upset a large number of Aboriginal communities as it offers them no protection of their fishing and religious rights off their land. The Yirrkala people, in a submission in September, stated it quite clearly when they said: 
To us the sea means as much as the land, we have songs, dances and sacred stories which go from the land to the sea. 
Their words have been echoed by the Aboriginal community of Groote Eylandt and the people of the Tiwi tribe on Melville and Bathurst Islands. Another matter of grave consequence is that the definition of 'Aboriginals' in the 1976 Bill is limited to Aborigines living within the Northern Territory. Again, this smacks of paternalism and discrimination and portends perhaps the Minister's fears of the articulate and educated Aborigines of the south influencing their northern brothers and sisters. The Labor Government in 1975 considered this matter, and after wide consultation determined that the Aboriginal people themselves should decide who should benefit and who should influence their decisions. For this reason, amendments will be proposed to delete such discriminatory passages throughout the Bill. 
Finally, might I add one additional matter which has relevance to the land rights legislation and also to the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill, that is, the matter of a treaty of commitment between the Australian Government and the Aboriginal people. Such a treaty would oblige the expenditure of a minimum amount, expressed in percentage terms, of each annual appropriation and would have the effect of removing the individual funding of Aboriginal affairs from direct political confrontation. Such a treaty may in some way indicate to the Aboriginal people the firm commitment of the Australian Government to Aboriginal affairs and in some way compensate them for the loss of thenland. Might I point out to the House that this Bill, which the Government has had before it since it took office on 13 December, has been the subject of widespread debate amongst both the Aboriginal and white citizens of the Territory and throughout Australia. The Opposition hopes that its passage through this House will be speedy but considered and that the amendments to be moved by the Opposition will find support from the Government benches. These amendments are not made in any spirit of partisanship or political point-scoring. They represent the considered opinions of persons who have been concerned with the Aboriginal cause, and in particular with Aboriginal land rights, for a number of years. I commend to honourable members the amendments circulating in my name and hope that in the Committee stage they will be given earnest consideration. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 Mr VINER (Stirling-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs)- I require the question to be put forthwith without debate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! It being 1 1 o'clock, the debate is interrupted. 
I shall continue my speech on my motion which states: 
That the House condemns the previous Government's economic mismanagement which has caused hardship and misery to a high proportion of those involved in rural industries. 
I intend to leave aside such matters as the Australian Labor Party's policy when in Government in respect of exchange rates and tariff cuts, both of which made in the short term exporting industries less competitive on overseas markets. Rural industries prior to the advent of the Whitlam Government were in fact primarily export orientated. Many are not now and probably will not be again. This points to the disastrous economic management which may yet result in a vital loss of export earnings to the nation in the future. If these industries are not missed as export earners in the future, it will be because of the advent of large export earnings from the mineral sector. I suppose we should give credit where credit is due and acknowledge the temporary respite afforded rural industry by the superb mess made of the mineral industry in its turn by a previous Labor Minister, even if his actions did set back the total economy of the nation by at least 3 years. Who can forget his remarks about ' hill-billies '? 
Rather than debating his actions, the European Economic Community policies, tariff movements and exchange rates, I wish to concentrate on cost movements that were the direct responsibility of the last Whitlam Government. It is no little wonder that a State such as Tasmania, with its important rural sector, has said that it does not require  Mr Whitlam  's presence in the run-up to the coming State election. Statistics show that in the previous 10 years the percentage of gross national product at factor cost decreased by 37 per cent in rural industries and 13 per cent in manufacturing industries which is a measure of the inheritance that we as a Government now have from the previous Administration 
Rural industries have felt this massive downturn to a far greater extent than any other of the 11 major sectors mentioned in the statistics. Today one does not look at Woolloomooloo, Port Adelaide, Fremantle or Footscray for evidence of poverty. One looks at Gippsland, the Brigalow, the Huon Valley and the Goulburn Valley for this evidence. One does not look at the manufacturing areas- one looks at the more poverty stricken rural areas. This year the Bureau of Agricultural Economics forecasts a downturn of farm income of 19 per cent in money terms and 27 per cent in real terms. The major reason for this is the inflationary effect of cost inputs into the rural sector. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a compilation by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, ie: an index of prices paid by farmers. 
-I would not think that this is a case for a withdrawal but I advise the honourable member for Calare to desist from references of that sort. 
The cutbacks that we experienced in the 1974 legislation have resulted in increased transport costs following the deterioration of road surfaces. We have seen increased safety risks, particularly with school children in buses. Of course, this has been totally contrary to the whole thrust and development of decentralisation in country areas. It also has affected some of the industries which supply the materials used in road making and the materials and goods used for road hardware and road furniture. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads did point out that there is a considerable cost benefit return for investment in roads. 
I now turn to the provisions of this Bill. This is the second time that this Government has firmly committed itself to restoring the level of road funding, to getting over the disastrous level that we experienced under the previous Government. The first measure that it introduced in this respect on coming to power was to provide an additional $64m for the 1975-76 program. This legislation provides an additional $3 5. 8m for the current year's program. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  has dwelt at length on the problems which are being experienced by our Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in this House and by his counterpart in New South Wales. I believe it is high time that the States took on their responsibility for rural local road funding and stopped trying to hide behind the supposed excuse that their legislation does not provide for them to do so. 
I have had people say to me that the Minister for Transport in this House is not fully aware of how serious the conditions are of our rural local and arterial roads. I remind honourable members that from my experience some of the roads I have been over in the electorate of Gippsland are undoubtedly the worst in Australia. I recommend the Suggan Buggan road, the Omeo Highway or the road down over McKillop's Bridge. I think it is not at all relevant that people say that the Minister is not aware of the plight of local councils and municipalities in relation to road financing. He is aware of how serious the economic situation of this country was when we took government. We cannot turn around and rectify those examples of neglect overnight. The situation will be restored. I encourage the Minister and support him, in conjunction with the honourable member for Macarthur, in ensuring that the Commonwealth plays its rightful role in association and agreement with the States and that the States also play their rightful role in the whole area of road finance. 
-There being no objection I shall allow that course to be adopted. 
-I suggest that the honourable member get on to the substance of the Bill. That might be more helpful. 
-Order! Why is the honourable member on his feet? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 3 measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! I ask the honourable member to resume his seat for a moment. It is difficult to hear what the honourable member is saying. There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. 
The Opposition has no objection to the lifting of the ceiling from $20m to $30m, as clause 5 provides. This provision will cater for many of the companies which were mentioned by my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The honourable member seemed to think that it was unique or ironic that a member from an Adelaide electorate should question the role of the motor car industry in Australia. Later in his speech, he seemed to take some exception to a provision inserted by the Government that the Tribunal should take into account the profitability of the motor car industry and its ability to employ people. 
Let me say this for the benefit of the honourable member for Lilley: Most of the people whom I represent are consumers. That is the position not only with me but also with every other honourable member who comes from South Australia. Those people need to be protected. Again, for his benefit, I make the point that I have already made, that lifting the prices of imported vehicles- this will occur as a result of the devaluation this week- will give the Australian motor vehicle industry a greater opportunity to lift the prices of its vehicles to that range. He may say that will not occur because the Prices Justification Tribunal will rope it in as it is over the $30m mark. But the honourable member would then agree that perhaps the motor car industry can exempt itself because it is so highly competitive. 
I would have thought that one of the first bodies to greet the Tribunal after the passing of this Bill would be the vehicle manufacturing industry which would be able to say: 'Look, we are in a highly competitive industry'. In fact it could prove that it is in the most competitive automobile industry anywhere in the world. Nowhere in the world do so many motor vehicle manufacturers and potential motor vehicle manufacturers have so few consumers. Nowhere in the world would the automobile industry consider having 5 manufacturers for 600 000 units. So I suspect that under the Government's provisions the motor car industry will be exempt from the surveillance, as we now call it, of the Prices Justification Tribunal. That being the case, my charge still stands: The way is made easier for such companies to lift the prices of their product to the prices of the imported product. 
It seems to me rather ludicrous to raise the question that if one comes from a certain State one should not say anything about an industry operating in that State. I do not know whether the honourable member for Lilley has much interest in sand mining on Fraser Island, in bananas, in pineapples or in coal or whether he is to remain dumb on any questions concerning Queensland. Obviously we should be speaking out. The Opposition has no objection to the lifting of the amount from $20m to $30m. But the sting of clause 5 is in the tail. I ask the Minister to explain to the Committee how we are to avoid the breakup of major companies into subsidiaries. Proposed new sub-section ( lA) of section S states: 
A company that is a subsidiary of another company is not a prescribed company for the purposes of this Act if the sum of the amounts received by the first-mentioned company during the period of 12 months that ended on the immediately preceding 30 June as payments for the supply of goods, or the supply of services, or both, did not exceed $5,000,000. 
It seems to me that the Government is not sincere about what it is proposing. We on this side of the chamber do not believe that what the Government says and the way in which it expresses its intentions will really bring about the fact as far as the Prices Justification Tribunal is concerned. I would like to read to the Minister a sample of companies, together with the number of subsidiaries of those companies, taken from the  Key Business Directory.  I want the Minister to tell the Committee what action the Government or the Prices Justification Tribunal can take to see that companies such as the ones I am about to mention do not break up into penny packet organisations so as to completely avoid the criteria set down for the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Let me just list some of the companies and the number of their subsidiaries. Without checking, I believe that each of these companies together with its respective subsidiaries would have an annual turnover of more than $2Sm or $30m. Let me give a breakdown of the companies. Allied Manufacturing and Trading Industries, 67 subsidiaries; Associated Pulp and Paper Mills, 23 subsidiaries; Australian Consolidated Industries, 35 subsidiaries; Boral, 80 subsidiaries; Brambles Industries, 65 subsidiaries; Burns Philp, 76 subsidiaries; Carlton United Breweries, 84 subsidiaries; Concrete Industries, 52 subsidiaries; Consolidated Foods, 44 subsidiaries; Consolidated Press, 20 subsidiaries; John Fairfax, 29 subsidiaries; Hoffring, 62 subsidiaries; Metal Manufacturers, 46 subsidiaries; Pioneer Concrete, no less than 165 subsidiaries; Ready Mixed Concrete, 35 subsidiaries; Repco, 70 subsidiaries; and George 
Weston Foods, 64 subsidiaries. It seems to the Opposition that if a subsidiary is operating in a totally unrelated area- and I ask the Minister to listen to this - 
Order! The honourable member might dodge the dogfight if he addresses the Chair. 
I wish also to make the point that the legislation has acted as a deterrent to price increases because of the fear of unfair and nefarious pricing practices being revealed in a public inquiry. That has been one of the most effective activities of the Tribunal in the past. It has meant that improper acts would be revealed to the public at large and that in due course the public would take it out on the company concerned. That has been most useful. It is to be regretted very greatly that the Government is now bowing to pressure from those organisations which perpetrated nefarious pricing practices to now vary the Act to make it easier for those organisations to obtain a secret inquiry. 
I hope that it is not the kiss of death to the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  or to the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  when I say sincerely that we on this side of the House are appreciative of the amount of work and constructive effort that they put into their speeches on industries such as horticulture. Sometimes a good thing goes a little bit too long when there are one or two other speakers each waiting to speak for 5 minutes. I know that the honourable member for Darling would never have transgressed on that if he had realised the position. I am not going to refer tonight to his devastating attack on the Government because there would be little point in it. The apple growers know the answers better than the honourable member for Darling in this instance. I say that in the nicest possible way. I have sat and listened to the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  on 3 occasions this session. He has really studied his work and has tried to produce a constructive and logical argument. I for one, regardless of others, appreciate it because he works on his contributions and I acknowledge it. I will refer later to a minor disagreement which I have with the honourable member, but as far as I am concerned that will be nothing but constructive. 
What I wish to say tonight will be brief and disjointed because I want to try to leave some time for my colleague the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  to speak tonight. Firstly, I want to congratulate the apple and pear industry on attempting to put its own house in order. This is an industry that can probably less afford to do so than any other primary industry of which I can think. Yet it is determined to do this and to pay levies to support its own corporation. I think that this is the first tiling that the House wants to note in relation to this Bill. 
If I might get parochial, I have 2 things to say in a few sentences. First of all, I thought the House would like to know that out of the 9 members appointed to the Corporation there is yet to be one appointed from South Australia. South Australians have been appointed to the position of  president  of the Apple and Pear Association. They have been men of great stature. I believe that in the future a South Australian deserves some consideration in the making of appointments to the Apple and Pear Corporation. South Australia is only a small State in terms of apple growing. We have much competence in the field. I want to draw attention to the fact that we do not have representation on the Corporation. I would be silly if I did not say that of course State parochialism has no part in the composition of corporations. If the Government has the common sense that it deserves it should look across the Australian scene and obtain the best people that the industry can muster. 
I have suffered here in silence for 2 months. I have heard Tasmanians say that they have the best quality apples in Australia. I have heard the same story from members from New South Wales. I have even heard mutters from members from Victoria. Of course, if honourable members like to look at the facts they will see that South Australian apples have always had a premium on the United Kingdom market, way above that of the apples from the other States. The fact that we have had the sense to withdraw from that export trade is another matter again. But I think the principle still applies. Those are my 2 parochial comments in relation to the industry. 
I think they contain a certain amount of truth to back up my contention. The other thing I would like to say is that I think it is totally unfair for the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)-  I think this is the third occasion on which he has done so when leading for the Opposition in a debate on a rural matterto attack the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He did it again tonight by saying that the Minister had never been to an apple growing area. This is patently absurd. If one applied the argument to the honourable member for Blaxland it might have some merit. But I happen to know that the Minister was in the apple growing area of New South Wales last weekend. He has been with me into apple growing areas of South Australia. He has probably been in many other apple growing areas as well. There are times, as the honourable member for Darling said, when members of Parliament have to get together for the sake of an industry and for the sake of rational thinking. On such occasions they need to chuck away stupid remarks that cannot be sustantiated by fact. 
The honourable member for Blaxland, of course, took the side of the Industries Assistance Commission. He did not stop to recognise the fact that the Government did not accept the advice of the IAC, and that is terribly important to Tasmania. In fact, it refused the advice in relation to government subvention on risk fruit. This applies not to fruit exported to the Asian market, which is dealt with on a contract basis, but to risk shipments to European ports. The Government today introduced the total readjustment plan which will not be lost on those smaller fruit growers who are feeling the pinch. If I might be terribly polite, they are feeling the pinch because of undue cost in-puts visited on them by the previous Government. I do not think that is a political point and I do not wish it to be. But if one looks at the figures and the graphs I do not think that one can run away from that proposition. Therefore, the second thing that this Government has done, in addition to introducing the isolated tree pull scheme, the dairy scheme and what have you, is to introduce a total readjustment program that will allow such new matters as household support to apply. One can rant and rave- this is largely the job of an Oppositionthat the Government is doing nothing. But the facts rather belie that contention. 
I think that in the few minutes that I have left before I allow my colleague to have his fair share of the time that is available I should comment on what was said by the honourable member for Fraser. He made a point that the area method of assessing the levies was the proper method. Contrary to what was said by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  I accept in principle exactly what the honourable member for Fraser stated. 
-Exactly. To do anything else does not encourage efficiency. After all if we were to impose the levy on a low production area on the same basis as we impose it on an area that happens to produce more apples that tend, by the way, to be high quality apples, we would therefore be on the side of efficiency. The big tragedy of the situation was that Queensland in this case is said to have won the argument. Should it have won the argument? That is the next point. It is assessed that if the levy is imposed on an area basis in 1 976 it will cost $200,000 to collect $ 1 m. I might quickly say that a rough estimate of collecting it on a production basis through very few sources is 5 per cent of Sim and not 20 per cent, which unfortunately would be the case if one stuck to the principle of levying on an area basis. If one collects the levy on an area basis one has problems with the definition of the leviable land. It is all very well saying that one can sit up in a chopper and work it out on a map. But how does one tell what crop is bearing? How does one tell what crop has a disease and will not bear? 
How does one tell from the air what crop is suffering from drought? How does one tell what crop, due to a good season, is yielding higher than another one? 
There is also the problem of the exact measurement of the viable land. One has to calculate the deductions. There are deductions due to hardship that would make it difficult to levy on a productive basis. There may also be claims for remission of levies as a result of crop failure, general hardship, low returns and other matters that I have already mentioned. The big problem of levying on a per acreage basis is this: One may have 7000 apple growers to levy, all of which have to be contacted individually. One does not have anything like that same picture when one looks at the other method that the Government has adopted. I repeat the fact that about 5 per cent of the $lm levy will be spent to collect the levy under the method the Government has now adopted. 
There are various aspects about which one could talk in relation to the method of raising the levy. I do not accept what the honourable member for Maranoa has said. From memory I think he said that to impose the levy per production unit is the correct and the most efficient method. It is the most economic but it does not encourage efficiency of production. To that extent I am on the side ofthe honourable member for Fraser. I am just sorry that the method which the industry wishes to use to collect the levy is such a totally uneconomic one. I would have liked to have mentioned many other things. However, time will not allow me to do so. I support the Bill and I hope that the couple of isolated remarks that I have put forward will be helpful to the debate. 
-Order! I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition might return to the Bill. 
Green's report. The fact is that this hasty and illjudged legislation was drafted with 2 simple objectives in mind, both of them destructive. It was designed to stack the ABC with commissioners of the Government's own choice and to abolish the Broadcasting Control Board. 
Last week's capitulation to public opinion and the staff of the ABC has merely forced the Government to accomplish its purposes another way. Instead of restructuring the Commission by sacking it outright, the Government will replace it a little more slowly. It is now proposing to increase the number of commissioners to eleven, four more than  Mr Green  recommended. He wanted a reduction of two in the number of commissioners. The Government is proposing an increase of two- waste and duplication  a la  Fraser. Why this latest departure from the Green report? We can forget the hoary old pretext about State representation. How many States does the Government think there are? Even with the Northern Territory there will only be 7. That still leaves a few surplus ABC commissioners. The reason for the increase is to enable the Government to stack the ABC by appointing extra commissioners. If it cannot have its way by replacing the old commissioners, it will have its way by appointing more. Having yielded to staff pressure and retained  Mr Marius  Webb as the staff representative, the Government has decided that  Mr Webb  will be outnumbered. If he cannot be replaced, at least he will be isolated. 
It ought to be noted that although the Government is retaining  Mr Webb's  services for the time being, there is no guarantee in the Bill, or from anything the Minister has said, that a staff commissioner will be appointed in future. The Minister has not mentioned the future of the staff commissioner, let alone promised to keep him. All the Government's pious talk about staff relations and participation obviously counts for nothing. At least we can take satisfaction from  Mr Webb  's reprieve. Marius has staged a comeback; Sulla has been vanquished. The farce, the dishonesty of this Bill is that if the present commissioners are to be allowed to stay, why is it necessary to change the Act at all? It is necessary, as I say, merely to keep  Mr Webb  in his place, to ensure the Government's domination of the ABC. I simply do not understand why the Prime Minister shows such antipathy to products of Xavier College and Melbourne University. Just because the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is discredited, why take it out on  Mr Webb  too? 
We know the legislation was drafted in haste. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
The legislative amendments required to fully implement the decisions of the Government ... are quite extensive and it has not been possible for parliamentary counsel to complete all of the necessary drafting in time for consideration in this session of Parliament. 
Why bring in the Bill at all? Why not wait until the Government can do it properly? A Bill that was botched and incomplete in its original form is to be made more botched and irrelevant by the foreshadowed amendments. Obviously the Government had hoped to make the emasculation of the ABC and the abolition of the Control Board a  fait accompli  to forestall the growing public suspicion, the growing anxiety amongst its own supporters and the mounting disquiet of the ABC staff, its management and, now, its Chairman. The more people study the Green report and this Bill, the more obvious it is that the Government is misrepresenting and undercutting the Green inquiry, just as it is misrepresenting and evading the Fox report on uranium. Whenever the Fraser Government finds the advice it receives unpalatable, it either ignores it and distorts its meaning or it suppresses the report altogether. 
I have said that the Government has ignored  Mr Green  in its treatment of the Commission. It is ignoring  Mr Green  also in the way it is replacing the Control Board. True it is that the Government is creating the Tribunal recommended by  Mr Green  but the Tribunal is only one of the two new arms of administration intended to replace the Board. The other is the proposed Broadcasting Council.  Mr Green  recommended that the Council should have 2 representatives of the commercial media. The Minister has announced that he will double the commercial representation to four. In this way the commercial stations would have little difficulty in dominating the Council. The Government is using the same technique with the numbers on the Council as it is using with the numbers on the Commission. 
Stranger still is the vagueness of this legislation with regard to the whole future of the Council. Will it be set up at all? The provision for the Council in this Bill scarcely exists. The Bill says merely that the Minister may set it up by regulation. There are no details about its function or its composition. Presumably these are among the minor details the Government still has to decide. Yet the Council's function, as envisaged by  Mr Green,  was crucial. Among its responsibilities was overseeing and administering program standards. As a result of this hasty and incomplete legislation no one will be responsible for administering standards, as  Mr Green  recommended. The 2-arm concept of administration is apparently discarded. 
The Government apparently has no firm machinery in mind for administering the standards of the commercial stations. It is doubtful whether the Tribunal will do it. The Minister's speech contained the following particularly strange passage: 
Should the Tribunal find that the community favours more autonomy being given to the broadcasters by allowing them to develop and largely administer their own codes of programming and advertising practice, the Tribunal would then withdraw from the day-to-day administration of standards, and examine only those significant matters of standards or regulation referred to it by a representative body of the broadcast operators, such as the Broadcasting Council designated in this Bill. 
So we have a situation in which the Tribunal is expected to withdraw from the administration of standards and hand this responsibility to the Council. Yet no firm provision is made in this Bill for the Council to be established at all. The curious thing about the Broadcasting Tribunal is that it is almost identical in its structure and functions to the Broadcasting Control Board which is being abolished. Why then is it to be established? The answer is so that the Fraser Government can make its own appointments. Just as it hoped to do with the ABC, it wants to get rid of the existing members of the Control Board, some appointed by previous Liberal Governments and some appointed by my Government, in order to stack it with people of its own choosing. The sacking of members of the Control Board, like the sacking of ABC commissioners, would violate a basic principle of statutory bodies- that their members are appointed for fixed terms. The point of this convention is that statutory corporations can remain as free as possible from Government pressure. Of course this is not the first convention of parliamentary democracy to be overturned by the Fraser Government. Nothing shows more clearly how reckless and ruthless this Government can be when statutory bodies stand in its way. If it is ready to sack the ABC or the Control Board, what is to stop it sacking the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? If it is prepared to intimidate one commission, it will be prepared to subdue another. 
The history of this Government, and this Prime Minister in particular, has been that the unthinkable quickly becomes the possible and that the possible becomes the inevitable. If this Government can contemplate the sacking of the ABC, does anyone imagine that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is safe? The things being said about the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer last week are very similar to things that were said by Ministers, particularly Country 
Party Ministers, about the ABC in past months. The Fraser Government is the most repressive and reactionary for SO years. It might try to do to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission what the Bruce Government tried to do SO years ago. The Government has been forced to allow the ABC commissioners to serve out their terms. It should allow the existing members of the Control Board to serve out their terms as members of the new Tribunal. If it is ready to admit that its actions in relation to the ABC were wrong, it should admit that its actions in relation to the Control Board are equally wrong. 
The history of the Liberal policy on broadcasting has been one of intimidating the ABC, deceiving the public and entrenching private interests. For years Liberal governments maintained the fiction that there were not enough frequencies to accommodate more AM radio stations. My Government showed that to be untrue. Under a Labor Government the Control Board acquired teeth; it began to take its job seriously; it began doing what it was originally intended to do. We appointed some vigorous new members to the Board. The Board began initiating research into matters the commercial stations wanted to keep hidden- the economic structure of the industry, its news gathering resources, its standards and efficiency. That is why the Board is being abolished. The Labor Government showed that it was technically possible to license additional stations in the AM band and we did so- commercial as well as national stations. We licensed the first new commercial stations for 40 years. We approved new ABC stations- 2JJ and 3ZZ. We approved new ethnic radio and community access stations. We launched FM broadcasts in 4 States. We gave the ABC greater financial resources to expand its programs and develop Australian productions. 
-Is leave granted? 
-Is leave granted? 
-The House should not pay any attention to past confusions or antagonisms. The previous  speaker  was heard in peace, by one honourable member, and I insist that this  speaker,  too, be heard in peace. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In May of this year the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence decided to investigate the boundary between Australia and Papua New Guinea. A sub-committee was appointed to carry out this investigation which to some degree was restricted as the question was already the subject of negotiations between Australia and Papua New Guinea. The subcommittee received evidence, some of which was heard in camera, from a number of witnesses including departmental officers, academics and a number of private citizens. No clear definitive statement of position was obtained from the Government of Papua New Guinea or the State of Queensland. However the  Chairman  of the sub-committee, myself, and one sub-committee member the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  did have an informal discussion with the Premier of Queensland. 
As part of its investigations the sub-committee visited the Torres Strait area and held public hearings on a number of islands including Yam, Saibai and Thursday Island. As a result of this visit the sub-committee felt it had gained a valuable insight into the attitude of the average Torres Strait Islander regarding any proposals to change the existing border. The report contains a number of quotations of evidence from representatives of the Islanders made to the subcommittee during its visit. 
As part of the investigation the Committee considered material relating to the establishment of the 1879 line under the Queensland Coast Island Act of 1879 which delineated islands around the coast of Queensland, including those in the Torres Strait which should be considered as part of Queensland. Since that date this line has commonly been regarded as marking the boundary between Queensland and Papua New Guinea. The report was accepted by the Committee with reservations by  Mr R.  Jacobi, M.P., and  Dr R.  E. Klugman, M.P., who each had certain separate reservations. These are attached to the report as separate statements. 
The Committee's recommendations include: The Torres Strait Islands should remain part of Australia; that the Government should, as soon as feasible, make a statement in Parliament setting out its position on the Torres Strait boundary; if a protected zone is established in the area freedom of passage for Australians and Papua New Guineans should be guaranteed, mining and drilling in the seabed should be prohibited until agreement is reached between all interested parties and new commercial ventures should not be permitted in the area unless they are compatible with the environment; and competent counsel should be provided to the Torres Strait Islanders if required by the people of Torres Strait. 
-Order! I take it that the honourable member does not mean that the Prime Minister is dishonest. If he does, he will have to withdraw that remark. 
I end on the note that the Government members could not be enthused by this statement because they know that the tide is turning. They know that their credibility gap is too great All these promises of not meddling with Medibank have been broken; the promise of not interfering with wage indexation was immediately broken. There was a suggestion that there would be more take home pay after taxation and there is less. All these things have added up to a completely incompetent economic management of this country over the last 12 months by these men who grabbed for power on the excuse that they could manage the economy better. They have not done so. This statement by the Prime Minister which is meant to hoodwink this country into believing that they have done so is completely pathetic. 
-I have received a message from the Senate concurring in the resolution of the House relating to the appointment of a Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory and agreeing that the resolution have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
That Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 7 to 22 (1976) and Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Proposals 1976, constituting part of Order of the Day No. 34, Government Business, be discharged. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Order! I have to interrupt the Minister. There is too much conversation between members of the Opposition. I request them to remain silent and hear the Minister's remarks. 
It can be seen that the Commonwealth is working towards a better and more efficient Agreement; one whereby the States will have more freedom of action and initiative. Much work will have to be done to decide the precise details of the new arrangements. Let me make it perfectly clear: The sort of comments that we have heard today, the crude speculation on rent increases and increased interest rates, are based either on ignorance or malicious speculation. I repeat to all Australians, but particularly to the Western Australians in whose State there has been a determined effort to confuse and frighten, that the Commonwealth has no aim other than to ensure that welfare housing is provided for all those who need it, and as well that all Australians, regardless of means, should have a real chance of owning their own homes. 
I present the following paper: 
-That matter remains in the hands of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
Has the Treasurer given any instructions to the Taxation Office as to the Government's attitude to current cost accounting for the next financial year? Has he studied the effects of any alteration to taxation yields as a cost to revenue? 
-Order! I wonder whether the honourable member for Port Adelaide would care to tie bis remarks to the Bill so that I can understand what they are about. 
-Before I call the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I remind the House that while the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  was talking a point of order was raised. I gave my opinion that Customs Validation Bills allowed a fairly free ranging debate. Since then I have been informed that that opinon was incorrect. From now on I would request all honourable members to stick fairly closely to the Customs Bill under consideration when they make their speeches. 
-I thank the honourable member for his point of order. The honourable member for Corio has not yet got warmed up to his subject. I expect he will. 
-Order! The discussion has concluded. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Committee has also sought to complete its reference from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on the impact of alcohol on Aboriginal communities contemporaneously with its new health brief. This work is well advanced. In view of the importance of the health inquiry and the  progress  made, the Committee recommends that the reference be again given to the Committee by the House in the new session. 
-Order! The honourable member for Hume will quieten down while the Chair gives the orders for the ringing of the bells to form a quorum. Ring the bells. 
The honourable member cited some figures concerning the various electorates. I remind him that it was his Government which tried to introduce a redistribution in which in the State of Victoria my colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  was not only given the largest electorate geographically but also almost the largest electorate numerically. That is a typical example of what could happen if the Opposition were given the opportunity to implement their desires on electoral matters. It is quite obvious to me that since the removal from this chamber of the former honourable member for Grayndler the Leader of the Opposition has been pretty well astray on these matters. 
This Bill is introduced as a result of the High Court decision whereby the number of members in the House of Representatives will be tied to the number of Senate representatives in the 6 States as compared with the suggestion that the representatives for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory should be included. The High Court decision means that whilst we have 60 senators representing the 6 States then the House of Representatives shall have a minimum number of 120 members. Only if a State has in excess of 50 per cent over and above the State's allocation shall it have one more seat. According the the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  it is pretty obvious that the new Parliament, after the redistribution, will comprise 120 members from the 6 States with the possibility of one more from Queensland being included, making 121 members. I have spoken to the Leader of the Opposition about this matter and I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table presented in the Senate by the Minister for Administrative Services on  23  February and appearing on page 316 of the Senate record. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="103131197702245_43_5.jpg"></graphic>

The former member for Grayndler,  Mr Daly,  made great play of this. Some honourable members will recall how he used to try to drive a wedge between the coalition parties on this issue. He failed on many occasions and no doubt the leader of the Opposition will fail again because the Opposition has never been able to drive such a wedge. If the Labor Party wants to use as a criteria the numbers of people- irrespective of service, irrespective of whether a constituent has the right and opportunity to speak to his member I would like to remind the House of the present population of Australia. In 1947 Australia had a population of about 7 500 000; in 1976 it had grown to 13 500 000. 1 might add that 1949 was the last occasion on which the number of members of Parliament was increased to any great degree - 
It is pretty obvious to me that the Opposition is not prepared to accept certain clauses of this Bill. I refer specifically to clause 7 which gives consideration to area which, of course, has always been disregarded by the Opposition. Under this new Bill for the first time there has been stipulated an area of 5000 square kilometres. Honourable members opposite may want to query why 5000 square kilometres has been mentioned but it is pretty obvious. There is a very marked degree of difference in these areas because the smallest electorate above 5000 square kilometres today is the electorate of Ballaarat with 5730 square kilometres. The largest electorate under 5000 square kilometres is that of La Trobe with 2606 square kilometres. So there is no argument about electorates being just inside or just outside that limit. It is a very clearcut issue and I compliment the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  for selecting that particular area. 
What this really means is that no electorate with an area of over 5000 square kilometres shall have more constituents than those which are under 5000 square kilometres. The Leader of the Opposition tried to imply that this was a loading in favour of country areas but he failed to remind the House that in the Bill there is another limit, that being 10 per cent below or 10 per cent above. Irrespective of what figures the redistribution commissioners come up with, they have to maintain that criterion of being within the limits of 10 per cent below and 10 per cent above. The other point I wish to make- and I think I have made it in this Chamber before- is that the Opposition, despite its criticism of these things and the numerical strength in country areas, has never been critical of the decision of the Constitutional Convention to alter the situation in Tasmania. As time goes by, of course, the population of Tasmania is growing. I am not being critical but I suppose it is a wonder that this is not an occasion when the Opposition wants to change this situation for the simple reason that it does not have one representative from the State of Tasmania. Perhaps we might hear from a member of the Opposition on this matter but if one principle is good enough for one area, it is good enough for another area. On 23 February the Minister for Administrative Services made available to the Senate a number of statistical tables which, I believe, answer many of the questions that are relevant to the very important matters contained in this Bill. I have spoken to the Leader of the Opposition about them and he has agreed that they could be incorporated in the House of Representatives  Hansard.  I am seeking leave to incorporate the tables which appear on pages 316, 317, 318 and 319 of the Senate  Hansard  of 23 February 1977. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="103131197702245_44_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="103131197702245_45_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="103131197702245_45_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="103131197702245_46_0.jpg"></graphic>

It has been suggested that some consideration should have been given to the 7 large electorates. I go along with that proposition because there are problems in the areas involved. Those problems are not confined to one particular political party because, as it so happens, all three parties are represented in those 7 electorates. They include the electorates of Kalgoorlie, Grey, Maranoa, Darling, Leichhardt and Kennedy. I believe that some consideration should have been given to those areas, because if the migrant population creates a heavy work load to people representing the metropolitan areas, we should think of the work load imposed, for example, on my colleagues, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  in trying to visit their constituents. As I have said on a previous occasion, very few constituents in those areas can contact their Federal member at a local telephone call charge; they all have to pay the trunk call fee. If they wanted to visit their Federal member for any reason, heaven only knows what would be the average distance they would have to travel. In many cases it would be hundreds of miles instead of the few hundred yards which people in the metropolitan areas have to travel. 
In the short time available to me I want to make a very brief comment about my own electorate because all of the speculators have forecast that my electorate is about to disappear. If that does occur, I suppose I will be very disappointed, but what is far more important than that is the fact that the Wimmera electorate has been in existence since Federation. 'Wimmera' is not only the name of a Federal electorate, it is also a well known geographical name and no doubt the people who live in that constituency will be very disappointed, not at seeing my face disappear from the scene but rather at seeing the disappearance of the electorate in which they have been so proud to be resident for many years. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! Will the honourable member hold his reply for a minute? The honourable member for Evans should not interject. The  speaker  has been provocative at times, but he is perfectly entitled to his point of view. The Chair is here to see that he is respected in that regard. 
-I interrupt the honourable member for one moment to remind him that the House is dealing with a motion to set up a select committee. I ask him to stick fairly closely to that aspect rather than to broaden the issue, which the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes, bordered on doing but avoided very adroitly. I ask the honourable member to remember that we are debating the motion to set up a select committee. 
That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to examine and report on- 
The operation of provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 relating to the identification of traditional owners of Aboriginal land and the means of establishing the views of such owners to the satisfaction of the relevant Land Council; 
I am assured by various legal advisers, of which the Minister is one, that this refers to the Land Councils operating to the satisfaction of traditional owners, which is as it should be. But to me the wording makes it seem exactly the other way around. I know that the Minister will say that is not so but we are dealing with Aboriginal people and I would be surprised if the majority of them understood the wording. I am not insulting the few who do. 
I would like to mention briefly that the leader of the Legislative Assembly has not betrayed anyone. He has not sabotaged or undermined anything. The Legislative Assembly provided draft legislation to the Federal Government. It was the Government's duty to consider that and to consult with the Legislative Assembly. For anyone to abuse any member of the Legislative Assembly, and the Majority Leader in particular, over this matter is complete and utter nonsense. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for National Resources noticed the recent increase in salinity in the River Murray? Are the State governments, particularly the South Australian Government, and the River Murray Commission carrying out sufficient headworks to give proper protection to both producers and consumers downstream, including those in the capital city of Adelaide? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Is leave granted? 
I support this legislation which simply regularises an earlier announcement to extend at the same rate and for the same quantity of risk export fruit as in the 1976 season into the 1977 season. I think it is worth while that the House should bear in mind that this support applies only to risk fruit. It is not a general subsidy to the apple industry. It does not apply to the home market sales. It does not apply to contract sales abroad which are the best, the most firm and the most affluent export arrangements. The subsidy applies to risk areas which primarily are in Europe and the United Kingdom with the exception of pears which are, I think, at risk on North American markets. The Government has seen fit because of the economic circumstances faced by the industry to continue this form of support to the risk export sector of the apple industry. I think we should commendnot denigrate- the Industries Assistance Commission for the type of purely economic advice that it gives in an impartial and objective fashion to governments. There is no question that there is a need for this sort of body both in the national interest and in the consumers' interest. The fact of the matter is that, contrary to the implication in the remarks of the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  the Government has seen fit, because of the economic circumstances and perhaps due to regional dislocation problems or due to sheer poor standards of living for people in many sectors of the horticultural industry, to continue the support for the 1977 season and not to commence an immediate phasing out of this type of support as suggested by the IAC. That is the first point. The honourable member for Fraser referred to us as hardline supporters of this Government, maybe with his tongue in cheek. He should bear in mind that not only is the Government helping the apple industry by continuing this level of support in respect of the number of boxes to which it applies but also- as he himself said without mentioning the other implications- devaluation has considerably helped all those sectors of the horticultural industry which have a high or reasonably high export component in their total production. 
The Government has given considerable help to the Tasmanian export trade with the introduction of the freight equalisation scheme. One has only to travel to the apple districts of South Australia or New South Wales, indeed, as far away as Queensland to find how much the growers in those States fear the intrusion of Tasmanian fruit in good production years, not onto the export market but into the capital city markets in those States which have become fairly stable over a period of years. I make that comment because obviously Tasmanian producers seem to be a trifle more upset than producers in other States but they should recognise that this Government, contrary to being a hardline Government, has given 4 kinds of assistance to help the apple industry out of its difficulties. In this legislation the Government is maintaining assistance at the same rate and volume as last year, contrary to the recommendations of the IAC. The Government has introduced the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme. The Government devalued the Australian currency, which helped the industry considerably. Last but not least-and probably most important of all, looking into the future-there is the rural adjustment measures that will apply to all industries that are in a state of overproduction. One of the many favourite phrases of" the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is that the worst enemy of the sheep is another sheep. Likewise, the worst enemy of an apple is another apple particularly if there are one too many other apples. There is a lot of economic sense in the Government's intention to have a total program of rural re-adjustment in many areas of the apple industry. 
In respect of the IAC's method of looking at the problem, it has been a common talking point within the corridors of the IAC for some time that there is an apple grower in one State which I will not mention who handles all his export fruit himself and does so in risk fruit areas. The taxpayers have been subsidising that man to the tune of $ 12,500 to produce apples to give him an income of $4,500. Those figures are roughly accurate, as I remember the story. No matter what one thinks about this the fact is that it is just as well for the total community of Australia that stories of this sort do emerge largely through inquiries made by an impartial economic body such as the IAC which can make recommendations to the Government. The Government in turn may accept or reject those recommendations. Presumably it would reject recommendations from time to time for the sort of reasons which I have put to the House. 
I take up once again the point of the honourable member for Fraser that we on this side are hardline in respect of this legislation in spite of those 4 very helpful forms of assistance which I mentioned earlier. I now refer to supplementary assistance. I know very well that the Labor Party in South Australia will not have a bar of giving any help itself in the form of supplementary assistance to apple growers in that State. I ask any of the Tasmanian members to tell me whether their State Labor Government is at all attracted to supplementary assistance measures in addition to the sort of support provided in this legislation. If it is, I am unaware of it. Certainly the growers of Tasmania have a much greater problem than do growers in other States. I am not aware that the New South Wales Government has come forth with any supplementary assistance from State funds for the apple industry in its State. Honourable members ought to be awfully careful before they try to sling around accusations about who is hardline and who is not. The facts of the matter are that this Government has done a very great deal to help the apple industry over many years and since it has been in power since 1975. I think any more assistance would be seriously questioned by those people in the community who take an intelligent view as to what should or should not be done to help a particular section of the community. I am convinced that one of the lessons of the dairying industry in the past, where quite ample protection and direct subsidies were given to keep that industry going over many years, mainly through this sort of capital infusion and protection, is that all we really did over many years was to prolong the agony for a lot of dairy farmers who could well have been better out of that industry in years gone by. 
Finally, I want to comment on that aspect of the speech of the honourable member for Fraser in which he referred to overseas demand and the likely fall of production of overseas apples and pears. The dned fruit industry is faced with the same interesting situation. The citrus industry probably is also faced with the same interesting situation. I think that one would not want to run away with the view that because there has been a short fall in production that may affect prices quite well from the point of view of the producers over the next 2 years, that there is not still an adjustment problem. One of the problems of rural adjustment in this industry or any other industry is that given this temporary increase in prices, people will hardly elect voluntarily to leave that industry. I think this is a long-term matter of some concern to the Government and to those industries involved. 
I see no reason why the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  should cross the floor. As he himself said, far more colourfully than I could, this is a purely 'come in suckers' sort of amendment which has been moved by the Labor Party. For instance, if the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  led the Labor Party today, one wonders with interest whether he, with his particular economic views, would allow such a spurious and mildly dishonest amendment to be foisted on this House. It certainly would not conform with my understanding of his economic views. So we can take this amendment with a pinch of salt. 
I would in no way be attracted to supporting the amendment moved by the Labor Party if I were the honourable member for Franklin and I hope that he and others who have a direct interest in the apple industry would treat this amendment with the sort of contempt that I think it deserves. I support the Bill before the House and I hope that these measures will continue to give the sort of help in the risk areas of export that is needed. I hope that the industry itself will from now on try to make its exports a matter of contract and not one of risk. In this way and with the other encouragements of which I have spoken, the industry can certainly cure a lot of its own problems within the period allotted by this Government. 
-Order ! The honourable member will refer to him as the honourable member for Lowe. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197703245_76_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Order! The debate is on the Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill. As I understand the position, the honourable member has been off that topic for the last 8 minutes. I think the principles involved in the House on these sorts of debates allow a degree of free-ranging debate. I invite-I put it at no higher level than that-the honourable member for Hughes to return to the substance of the Bill, perhaps as he is getting towards the end of his speech. 
I applaud the activity taking place under the Asian Development Bank. I am glad that the contributions which Australia is making to sustain it are substantial. I believe that in the longterm, Australia, although at present it is in a contributory situation, stands to be one of the most significant beneficiaries under the Asian Development Bank concept. I am very glad that we have no direct tie-up in terms of security, foreign policy or matters of that kind. It is very important for us not to be superficial in our analysis of these matters because the facts are that such aid is capable of being the subject of abuse. All of us will recall from some time ago the criticism of aid programs to which Australia was a contributor, particularly the Colombo Plan, when it was said that there was abuse in terms of material being thieved and used by the private sector and that buses were being provided and if something on the bus broke down it would lie there and an enormous waste of funds would be involved. 
It is very interesting to note that there is still a great deal of criticism of aid programs around the world. Before I came into the House today I was looking at a paper provided by a prominent, if not eminent, staff member of the World Bank. He was complaining that profits from the sale of land in India's Punjab region had risen by 500 per cent as international and large national companies moved into the agricultural business. We must keep our eye on that kind of matter to see that the people in general rather than some private entrepreneur are the beneficiaries. This gentleman,  Mr Ladejinsky,  complained that in respect of aid to India tenants of generations are being forced to become hire labourers and that in 2 districts there were 70 000 evictions. Many of those evicted from farms are moving into city slum situations. He is making the point that we should do everything we can to ensure that our aid program contributes to the success and survival of labour intensive industries, whether they be primary or secondary industries. I believe we must have a long-term view of these things. I would have liked this Bill and the other Bill which I mentioned to be debated cognately so that there could be a more general coverage of these matters. I commend the Bill. I believe that Australia will have to do even more to increase its aid program. 
-I did not hear the honourable member for Canberra say anything which I could rule objectionable under this standing order. 
I address my question to the Minister for National Resources. Is the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  on record as pressing the Commonwealth Government for the establishment of a major uranium industry in South Australia? Has the Minister noticed a certain knock-kneed ambivalence creeping into the Premier's current position on uranium development? 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I, as the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  did a little while ago, very much support the Government's actions in relation to the 3 Bills before the House today. I have no intention of repeating the arguments that the honourable member for Wakefield put. I think that what is important to the rural community in relation to Australian production of tractors is that at least the protection is open and by way of bounty and will not put the price up of tractors purchased from elsewhere. Tractor prices are an important cost ingredient in the total cost of production of farm products in Australia. A lot of the need for this sort of legislation and the need for the Temporary Assistance Authority to examine a wide range of industries and their welfare today in terms of export competition of course was caused by the actions of the Australian Labor Party Government in the last three or four years. We now have the position where at least one direct result of the Labor Government's bad decisions has been not only a loss of competitiveness on export markets but also the creation of great problems for Australia's internally produced goods which compete with imported goods. If that is not bad enough, at the end of that line-up the Labor Government left us with a currency that was vastly overvalued. 
The Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill is intended to replace the previous bounty scheme which terminated in December 1976. Clause 14 allows tractors of 100 per cent Australian parts and materials and completed prior to 1 January 1977 to be sold after that date and be eligible for a bounty. I shall return to that matter in a minute. First I should like to refer to the Act which this Bill amends. The first point I make refers to the application of sections 15 and 18 ( 1 ) and 18 (2).. It might be of interest to the House to know that these sections provide that a person can be required to convict himself by selfincrimination. Those sections state that a person shall not refuse or fail to answer a question or to produce an account. A person shall present to an officer or other person doing duty under this Act an account book or document and shall not make to such an officer or person a statement which is false or misleading. A penalty of $1,000 or imprisonment for 12 months is provided. That legislation goes back to 1966. That is a pretty grave penalty provided under that Act for any refusal to provide correct information or for any other nefarious act that could arise in relation to the collection of bounties under the Act. I think it does not hurt to point this out right from the word go. Here is a penal clause concerning breaches of a series of conditions that are meant to keep the society in an orderly situation. I apply that remark generally to my own political philosophy. 
The second matter I mention is that there is an example of delegated authority in this Bill which I find strange. When the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  responds later I would be interested to hear his reply on this point. This Bill authorises both the Minister and the Comptroller-General of Customs to delegate all or any of their powers and functions but not to re-delegate that authority. Honourable members should remember that only 2 manufacturers are concerned with the bounty payable under this Bill. These immense powers of referral frankly could attract the notice of the Senate at a later date. If a Minister or one other person to whom he could delegate authority could not control the implications of this Bill, minor though they might seem, affecting only 2 companies in Australia, I find the whole situation somewhat strange. In fact I am reminded of the age-old philosophy of Bagehot of English fame. He wrote many books on delegated authority. This provision seems to me a trifle strange. 
Returning to the Industries Assistance Commission's report, I am concerned on 2 counts: Firstly, on the determination of future demands for tractors and secondly, on the possible future for a tractor industry at all in Australia. This Bill changes the emphasis of the bounty from smaller to larger tractors. As my friend the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  said, the old scheme distorted the market. The new scheme is a much better encouragement to proper trends as they will probably occur.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  some figures showing the percentage change in protection on light, lower medium, upper medium, lower heavy and upper heavy tractors from the old scheme to the new one. 
-Order! I should explain to the House, that, due to the imbalance in the number of speakers from either side of the chamber and in view of the fact that we have already heard from 3 speakers from my left, I now call the honourable member for Macarthur. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-The question is that the honourable member for Scullin be not further heard. Those of that opinion say 'aye', to the contrary 'no'. I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition members- The noes have it. Divide. 

 The bells being rung- 


 Mi Lionel Bowen-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we do not wish to proceed with the division. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Order! I take the opportunity to point out that anybody sitting in this chair who is not  Mr Speaker  is correctly addressed as  'Mr Deputy Speaker'.  There is an Acting  Speaker  only when the  Speaker  is absent and, following an announcement by the  Clerk  to that effect, a member takes the chair as  Mr Acting Speaker'.  I have intended to say that for some time. I am sorry to intrude on the honourable member's speech. 
Other figures illustrate that we have an underutilisation of our manufacturing industries. That has been so for some time. When the LiberalCountry Party Government left power four or five years ago, manufacturing industry throughout Australia was operating at about 85 per cent of capacity. That capacity today is down to about 76 to 77 per cent. It has been even a few per cent lower than that. I raise that point because many people are saying that if we make our policies too expansionary this will tend to cause inflation. The point I bring to the attention of those people listening is that because we have this excess capacity available in our manufacturing industries our manufacturing industry and economy can stand up to a great deal of expansion, which is non-inflationary because the capacity is already there to produce goods and services. If through our policies we can take up this excess capacity that exists we have a great chance of being able to produce some, and perhaps many, of our goods and services at a lower price than previously. I urge those business people listening tonight please to accept the confidence of the Government that the economy has a great future. 
I can well remember 12 months ago when the Government brought in the first of our stimulating innovations, the investment allowance for business, the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said that those people and those businesses that were prepared to invest then would be in the best position to reap the profits of the future. Those words that he said 12 months ago still apply today because those businesses which are prepared to continue with investment today and to find markets for their goods are the ones which will reap the great benefit in the future. Policies such as these will gradually overcome our problem of unemployment. Gradually we will get back to the situation of being able to provide jobs for all those Australians who want a job and who want to workand most of them do. But first we must get rid of the deficit. It will take time to do. When the deficit is eliminated, the inflation rate will come down and Australia will continue on the road to recovery that it has been on for the last 12 months. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705041_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

We on this side of the House have been pilloried about the size of the deficit. There is not any doubt as to what will be the impact on the next Budget of 2 great items, namely the investment allowances, that have gone mainly to a handful of companies. Figures from the same source as I have cited show who got the benefit of the investment allowance that is estimated to cost $500m or thereabouts in a full year. Now we have another allowance amounting to $360m and it is proposed eventually to take this figure up to the full adjustment of the consumer price index. It is a fairly substantial reduction in the total amount of company tax paid. Estimated concessions via the investment allowance amount to $2,900m. Nearly one-third of that sum has been granted by way of stock valuation adjustment. In my view, the investment allowance never went to those people who deserved to get it. It went equally to breweries as to other areas of manufacturing and the same applies to this concession. I believe that when concessions of this kind are being made, they ought to be more systematically evaluated and their impact ought to be better looked at than seems to have been the case here. I do not think that there ought not to be some adjustment in some circumstances but there is anything but unanimity on the part of accounting institutions as to how these sorts of matters should be encompassed. Of course for a long time the whole thing was being looked at only on one side- the side of the assets. After all, people are paying tax annually. I think part of the trouble is the taxation period rather than inflation. Maybe companies ought to balance their books every month and get taxed as they go like the wage earner does. 
I think that these sorts of things also ought to be thought through occasionally. We should not do what is so easily done, that is, look at the assets side only and ignore the liability. After all, in the end all the accounts show is whether one's net worth has improved or deteriorated in the 12 month period. That is done on the basis of annual accounts showing expenditure for the period against income with a plus or minus adjustment according to whether one's stocks are greater or less than they were when one started, and then one brings that surplus or deficit over into the balance sheet. One thing about balance sheets is that they balance- and they balance because there is a liability side as well as an asset side. But sometimes that is forgotten in this sort of argumentation. Variation from historical accounting is not quite so simple as is suggested, but I repeat that one variation from historical accounting- purely a tax calculation variation- need not appear in a company's books, except that the tax will be so much less. 
I think there is a good case for not taxing com- panies at all. But if that were the case, does anybody really believe that the $3 billion or so that is now collected in tax would be handed back to the buyer of a product in the form of reduced prices? I doubt it. After all, this $360m is an interference with the wage-price freeze. It will alter the tax payable and therefore the profits retained by the companies concerned. I leave it for honourable members to cogitate upon whether that is equivalent to a price rise. Nevertheless, I have tried to show today how that total benefit is to be ill-distributed. A few big people will get most of it and those who perhaps need it most will get very little. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I listened very carefully to the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and I can understand his difficulty. It was a difficulty that concerned very much our party meetings and the Treasury committee of our Party. What the honourable member for Adelaide seems not to comprehend is that once the spirit of retrospectivity is started in all legislation one can undo all sorts of perfectly legal and in many cases perfectly proper arrangements which have been made. I congratulate the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  for the part he took - 
A very understanding Minister in this regard. At least he realised the problem that if one were to leave the legislation open ended until the end of the financial year massive malpractices of the type described succinctly by the honourable member for Adelaide could occur. On the other hand, if this Government were to accept the principle that an Act of today could apply back 5 years for some particular purpose, it could net all sorts of people quite honestly taking action within the community according to law. I think that the principle we have adopted tonight is very important, and I hope that in years to come the honourable member for Adelaide will remember this historic occasion and make quite certain that he uses his influence within his Party to make sure that this dreadful matter of retrospective legislation and its application is never allowed to raise its head within this place to the disadvantage of ordinary members of the community who make perfectly rational decisions according to the law of the time. 
I can understand the difficulty of the honourable member for Adelaide. On the other hand, I hope he will forgive me for pointing out that I congratulate the Government for adopting 21 April as the date of application of this legislation. That was the date on which the Government made public the fact that it was going to close this loophole. If the speech of the honourable member for Adelaide has merit, it must be in his comments in regard to the back-dating of arrangements, and I hope that both the Treasury officials here tonight and, more importantly, the Minister will remember that point. I for one do not wish to be part of any action which will enable malpractice to occur to the disadvantage of other taxpayers. It may well be that the date of lodgment of such agreements should be tightened up considerably, and I ask the Minister to have a look at that in order to overcome the situation covered by what I regard as the pretty valid point made by the honourable member for Adelaide. 
The other thing I wish to say is that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  just made an incredible speech. 
He had a certain amount of help in that from the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  but I shall leave that aside. The main thrust of his speech, and I refer primarily to clauses 5 and 6, on which I have just congratulated the Minister, was to point out that firms with a quick turnover get maximum benefit from the stock adjustment scheme. As happens so often in this place, the honourable member was unutterably and completely wrong. I do not think that I can remember a speech made by any honourable member which was more theatrical, and I had a vantage point, and the thrust of which was so totally wrong. To explain my point, might I quote from the evidence given by  Mr Brigden,  who is a prominent and respected officer of the Treasury, to the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce during its inquiry into wine making. Amongst other things,  Mr Brigden  said: 
Although there is no set pattern, it is not uncommon to find that the cost value of stocks on hand at any one time is about 3 times the profit for the year. 
He was talking about wineries with big stock holding capacity in terms of turnover or of profit. He continued: 
If you assume that the valuation proposal announced in the Treasurer's Budget Speech operates on a 10 per cent index, that means that 10 per cent of the value of stocks will be allowed as a deduction. So if your stocks are S rimes your net profit you effectively cut your net profit in half because you take one-tenth of the stock valuation equivalent or O.S of the profit. Another way of looking at it is that instead of paying tax at 42 per cent, winemakers in general can expect to pay tax at something in the order of 2 1  'A  per cent. 
That is a complete refutation of the thrust of the speech made by the honourable member for Chifley. Those firms with big stock holdings compared with profits, or quick turnovers in effect, are the major beneficiaries. If I might make a point before I am noticed by the  Chairman  for moving away from the clause, that is particularly applicable to the wine industry. Due to the withdrawal of section 3 lA by the Whitlam Government, the industry is now in the process of paying back $22m. The only value that those in the industry are allowed on stock, and so they are disadvantaged peculiarly under this legislation, is a valuation up to the proportion of the amount they have paid back of $22m. In a way that magnifies the error made by the honourable member for Chifley, and I would not be just to the industry if I did not point out that that is the case in this instance. 
Returning specifically to clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill, we on this side of the chamber will not have a bar of deliberate manipulation of the law to the disadvantage of other taxpayers or, put in another sense, to the disadvantage of the community in general. We regard it as a principle which should be accepted by this chamber and by all people in the nation that, unless there is a reason which I cannot imagine at this stage, legislation is not made retrospective for 5 years, 10 years or 15 years. If that is done, members of the community who took proper action according to the law will be disadvantaged. I finish my few remarks in the Committee stage by once again congratulating the Minister assisting the Treasurer for the amount of time he has given our Party in consideration of this problem and for his reasonable attitude to it. I believe that I have the support of many honourable members on this side of the chamber, if not on the other side of the chamber, in saying that we have arrived at a compromise solution that is fair to everybody. 
-Before I call the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  I point out to the House that the Chair, rightly or wrongly, takes the view that this debate is not concerned with energy programs for Australia. On the other hand, passing references certainly are allowable according to custom. This debate is dealing with the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of allegations that a large scale fraud has been perpetrated in Sydney, involving illegal payments of unemployment benefits to members of the Turkish community? If so, what factual information can the Minister give to the House in relation to those allegations? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Three of the items in the sixty-second series reserved by the Committee for further consideration involved the provision of access roads in areas previously reserved for medium density development. The intention of the variation is to permit the construction of detached housing in those areas. Objection was made by the Society for Social Responsibility in Science to these items. The Society has again lodged formal objections to 3 items in the current series on similar grounds. It was considered that more information should be provided by the National Capital Development Commission as to its medium density housing policy in order that the Committee might consider these items in their proper perspective. The opportunity was taken by the Committee to obtain a detailed statement by the National Capital Development Commission on its medium density housing policy which is appended to the Committee's report. 
The Committee gave careful consideration to the arguments of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science in support of its formal objection. The Society believes that Canberra's increasing suburban sprawl is due in part to over-emphasis on standard detached housing in residential areas. It considers there should be a greater effort made to reduce this by the provision of medium density housing. In the Society's view, urban sprawl has serious social implications and it also believes that a mix of residential styles and densities is desirable in urban planning. The Society thus objected to the reclaiming for detached housing of land previously proposed for medium density development. 
The National Capital Development Commission was able to satisfy the Committee that it has actively and effectively promoted medium density as an alternative to standard housing. It also brought to the Committee's attention certain matters associated with the housing situation in Canberra which has made it desirable to release more sites for standard residential development in established areas. These issues are dealt with in detail in the Report. 
The other matter which I wish to mention concerns proposals contained in this series for the provision of cycle paths. These proposals have been approved by the Committee and when implemented will provide a network of cycle paths from Belconnen in the north of the Territory through to Manuka. The next stage will be from Commonwealth Avenue through to Phillip in the Woden Valley. The Committee will be examining the variation to enable the latter in its report on the sixty-fourth series. Cyclists will then be able to move between those areas on specially constructed and continuous cycle paths. There are now 9 kilometres of cycle paths in the Territory and when this variation is implemented there will be a total of 19 kilometres constructed. When the entire network is completed there will be 1 13 kilometres of cycle paths in the Territory. These cycle paths are a significant amenity and a special element in the development of the urban environment of the national capital. 
I commend the report to the House. 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The escalation of serious crime in Australia. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Order! The honourable member for Burke will resume his seat. The honourable member for Darling Downs is raising a point of order. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Treasury minutes is the result of an arrangement made between the Committee and the Treasurer before the presentation of the Committee's first report on 10 March 1953. The arrangement is that the Committee forwards a copy of each report to the Treasurer for consideration immediately that report is tabled.  His  reply, in the form of a Treasury minute, is then examined by the Committee and included in a later report to the Parliament. The 164th report is one of these later reports. Before preparing its minute, the Treasury consults the departments concerned and obtains their views on the recommendations and conclusions of the Committee. Essentially the Treasury minute system ensures that Committee recommendations are acted upon and informs members of the steps taken to meet thenproposals. Due to the reorganisation of the Department of the Treasury, this function is now carried out by the Department of Finance and these minutes will, in future, be known as Finance minutes. 
In its 150th report, in relation to the purchase of 34 demountable home units for Aboriginals in the Northern Territory, the Committee had criticised the department concerned because clear arrangements for inspection on delivery had not been made. The Committee also recommended that the problems of inspection at remote localities should be fully considered before delivery to site clauses are written into similar contracts in the future. The Committee has been advised in the Treasury minute that the department now ensures that delivery and inspection clauses are written into contract documents to provide for delivery into the departmental store. Delivery to site by departmental transport is then arranged after consultation with the client branch of the department or other departments. The Committee had criticised the Darwin regional office of the then Department of Works regarding its unsatisfactory financial procedures and had also concluded that the rate of expenditure on capital works by that office had been deliberately accelerated towards the end of the financial year in an attempt to expend the appropriation. In addition, the Committee had reached the conclusion that sections of the Audit Act had been breached by the regional office and that certain Treasury Directions had not been followed. The Treasury minute states that the Department has advised that as a consequence of the Committee's inquiry a number of corrective measures were introduced to ensure compliance with the Audit Act, Treasury Regulations and Directions and departmental procedures. The Treasury minute also gives details of the action taken in the Northern Territory region to obviate the possibility of any recurrence of accelerated expenditure payments. 
The Committee. has made some observations in chapter 4 of the 164th report concerning the Treasury minute on the Committee's 150th report. When examining the Treasury minute the Committee was not satisfied with the comments provided by the Department of Defence in response to the Committee's conclusions in paragraphs 84 and 85 of the report relating to the purchase of trailer-mounted refrigerators and paragraph 123, which dealt with a cleaning contract. Regarding paragraph 84, the comment originally provided did not satisfactorily answer the Committee's observation that too much emphasis had been placed by the Department in its submission and in evidence on the urgent operational requirement for Vietnam. 
In relation to paragraph 85, the Committee had commented that it found it difficult to understand why, if there was an urgent operational requirement, it took the Department from May 1965 until May 1968 to obtain the equipment for Vietnam. The Committee believed that the original response from the Department was unsatisfactory in that it suggested reasons for the delay which were not mentioned during the inquiry. The later comment stated that the Department had over-estimated the ability of industry to provide a suitable product without a very detailed specification. This led, in turn, to the need to call tenders a second time. Thus, a period of about 18 months elapsed during which time the first tenders were called and evaluated and preparations made for calling tenders a second time. The remaining time until May 1968 was taken up with processing the second round of tenders and in the manufacture of the refrigerated trailers. 
The comments originally provided in response to paragraph 123 were considered to be inadequate because no reference was made to the delays in finalising the question of the provision of safety gear for window cleaning in the Russell complex. The reasons for the Committee's dissatisfaction were discussed with officers of the Department of the Treasury in accordance with the agreed Treasury minute arrangements. The Treasury subsequently sought additional information from the Department of Defence and redrafted comments were substituted for those previously provided for paragraphs 84, 85 and 123. The original and substituted comments are shown opposite the related Committee conclusions in this report. 
The additional information provided in relation to paragraph 123 indicates that subsequent to June 1972, when the question of safety in window cleaning operations was lint raised with the contractor, the Department was in frequent communication with the appropriate authorities in an attempt to have the matter resolved. The Committee believes that the Department should have made this clear at the public hearing. The Committee has also noted that a contract was let in October 1976 for the cleaning of windows above the first floor. In the Committee's view it had taken an inordinately long time to resolve this matter. 
In the 151st report the Committee had criticised departments for unreasonable delays in the payment of accounts and had made recommendations designed to reduce those delays. The Treasury minute informs the Committee that Treasury circular 1976/15 was issued on 8 June 1976 which drew the attention of all departments to the Committee's criticism. Particular paragraphs of the Committee's report relating to the regular review of unpaid accounts, the implications for suppliers of delays in payment, the proper circulation of Treasury circulars, delay in payment due to shortage of funds, recoveries between departments, increases in working capital for trust accounts and the review of procedures and the need for increased supervision were all specially featured in the circular and brought to the attention of all officers concerned with the processing and payment of accounts. In addition, the circular directed attention to the Treasurer's letter to Ministers dated 2 June 1976 on the same subject. 
The Committee had also suggested that the Treasury should examine the desirability of having the provision in Treasury direction 6/22A, which allows amounts under query to be deducted from transport accounts before payment, extended to cover all types of accounts. The Treasury has advised that an appropriate amendment has been made to the direction. 
The Committee has indicated in the 164th report that consideration is being given to the question of whether it should re-examine witnesses in those cases where it is obvious from the comment provided in Treasury minutes that incorrect or insufficient information was given to the Committee at an inquiry. The Committee has also expressed its concern at what appears to be inordinate delays in the supply of information by way of Treasury minutes and trusts that these delays will not occur again in the future. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

Having expressed at length the detailed reasons for our total opposition to the Government's proposed amendments to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act, we make the following statement: 
This existing legislation contains a range of 'pains and penalties' provisions. It is known that some of those provisions conflict with the policy of the Australian Trade Union Movement. What we therefore put now does not imply into the future a change of our policy in that respect. However, that is not the current issue. 
On that basis we put two propositions for the earnest consideration of the Government. These propositions are put in the deeply held belief that confrontation and massive economic dislocation, if avoidable whilst still adhering to principle, is against the best interests of the Australian community. 
First, if the Government wishes to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing pains and penalties and processes into the hands of a body which they wish to designate as an Industrial Relations Bureau- and there is no explicit or implicit addition to those existing provisions or processes- the Trade Union Movement, while regarding such a move as unnecessary, would offer no objection. 
Second, we would be prepared to join a reconstituted tripartite National Labour Advisory Council which would have, as previously, the responsibility of discussing any issues of national concern in that area of industrial relations. Among the early issues to be considered by the NLAC it would be appropriate to include a thorough going research and analysis of the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act with a view to achieving agreed improvements in that area. Such analysis could well produce positive creative functions for a Bureau concerned with improving industrial relations within this area. 
We believe these arc manifestly constructive proposals. From many discussions we have had with a wide range of employers, we are sure that the proposals are consistent with their thinking. We are equally sure that the proposals would recommend themselves to the Australian community. There are now the clear alternatives of constructive consultation or confrontation and dislocation. We trust that, like us, the Government will opt for the former. 
What are the processes? The processes are those described in section 119 which empower the Arbitration Inspectorate to prosecute for a breach of a bans clause once a section 33 certificate has been issued, which empowers it to prosecute offences against section 138 and other sections of the Act without a section 33  certifiate  I want to refer to the Government's statement which was issued after the meeting with the ACTU. It said: 
The Government welcomes the acceptance by the ACTU of an Industrial Relations Bureau and the reconstruction of the National Labour Advisory Council. 
Why would it not welcome the acceptance by the ACTU of the Industrial Relations Bureau in lieu of the Arbitration Inspectorate? It continued: 
The Government has decided to pass legislation this session to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau which will have the function of securing the observance of the Act and awards in the terms already in the Act. 
Section 125 of the Act, with the exception of a few added words dealing with regulations, is precisely in line with the Minister's statement. The statement continued: 
Pending the detailed consideration of the Act referred to later in this statement, the Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more, no less, and those powers will be exercised according to the processes as they have been until now. 
I refer now to the reply given to this Parliament on 24 May 1977 by the Minister in answer to a question which I asked. I asked whether it was true that breaches of section 1 38 of the Act which relates to incitement to strike could be processed by the Arbitration Inspectorate without a certificate. I then asked: 
If this is so, will these powers of the Arbitration Inspectorate as now operating be transferred to the IRB? 
The Minister gave a reply and ended with this sentence: 
So the short answer to the honourable member's question is yes, exactly the same processes and procedures will apply as now apply. 
I seek leave to incorporate the full question and answer in  Hansard. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The question and answer read as follows- 

Our responsibilities under the Federal rules of the Australian Labor Party are to take such action at all times as may be possible to implement the Party's platform and Conference decisions and, for the record, I seek leave to incorporate the full text of rule 5 (d) of the Federal Rules and Constitution of the Australian Labor Party in  Hansard. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Federal Parliamentary Labor Party shall have authority in properly constituted Caucus meetings to make decisions directed towards establishing the collective attitude of the Parliamentary Party to any question or matter in the Federal Parliament, subject to- 
at all times taking such action which may be possible to implement the Party's Platform and Conference decisions; 
on questions or matters which are not subject to National Platform or Conference or Executive decisions, the majority decision of Caucus being binding upon all members in the Parliament: 
no attitude being expressed which is contrary to the provisions of the Party Platform or any other decisions of National Conference or National Executive. 
I do not accept the view of these people. I believe that it is quite easy for the trade union movement to win a confrontation with the government in this country or in any other country. Just as the trade union movement brought down the Heath Conservative Government in the United Kingdom, the trade union movement of this country could bring down this Government simply by bringing out a few key men. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  already admitted that by bringing out powerhouse employees representing only a few thousand men over the whole continent of Australia they could paralyse every industry in this country. Only a few men would need to be brought out. We saw what happened when a few air traffic controllers were brought out. All the airlines, international as well as commercial, were brought to a standstill. The trade union movement will not be so stupid as to bring out 4 million or 5 million workers in a confrontation with the Government. It will bring out a few key people who, when they come out, will have the effect of paralysing every industry in the country. 
Given the agreement reached with the ACTU, it is not necessary for the Government to have all the other provisions of the Bill which are now being omitted. Why would it need any of those provisions now that it has got the trade union movement to say that it would not oppose the transfer to the Industrial Relations Bureau of the existing pains, penalties and processes which reside in the hands of the Inspectorate. What more power would the Government need than the existing pains, penalties and processes? Why would the Government ever want more than that? The Government must have been agreeably surprised when it found that it had been able to get the Australian trade union movement to agree to something to which the trade union movement in no other country in the free world has ever agreed. What other trade union movement in the world would have agreed to offering no objection to the existing pains, penalties and processes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? No wonder the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is sitting in this place with such a smug look on his face. He knows perfectly well that he has been able to get all and more than he ever expected to get. Who would have thought a few years ago that we would have seen the day when a special conference of Federal unions would have agreed by almost a 20 to 1 majority that they would offer no objection to the present pains, penalties and processes of the existing Act? Who would have thought that people who had subscribed to the policy of the Labor Party calling for the repeal of these pernicious provisions of the Act would have gone to a conference and agreed that they would offer no objection to them? 
Let us look at the prospect of avoiding confrontation. I say that it cannot be avoided if the Industrial Relations Bureau does what the Act allows it to do and if the new Trade Practices Act is ever applied against the trade union movement. The trade union movement may as well stand up and fight now as to lay down in the forlorn hope that this Government will be any different from the governments of Germany, Spain, Italy, Portugal and Chile. The legislation that the dictators of those countries used against the trade union movement was no less tyrannical than the legislation that already stands on the statute book. If the union movement is to say that it will not object to a provision that provides for a fine of $500 a day on each single individual worker who decides to strike against an award that contains a bans clause or imposes a penalty of $1,000 upon a worker who strikes against a bans clause issued under section 32, if it is to tolerate a $400 fine on an official who incites a person to go on strike against an award, even one that contains no bans clause, if it is to accept the contempt provisions that already exist, and if it is to accept the penalties provided for in the Trade Practices Act of $250,000 upon an individual trade union, it will accept anything at all. A trade union movement which is prepared to accept these sorts of penalties is not likely to put up any fight. 
I only hope I am wrong. But I am beginning to believe that some elements in the trade union movement would be prepared to accept anything that this Government dishes out to them. They are pulling their own legs if they believe that the Government will not see that the Bureau carries out the provisions that section 125 of the Act requires it to carry out. Section 125 of the Act makes it perfectly clear that the Inspectorate- in future the Bureau- has a bounden obligation to see that the awards, the provisions of the Act and the regulations are observed. That means that whenever an official seeks to exercise the right to strike against an award that contains a bans clause or to incite a person to strike against an award that does not contain a bans clause, he will be liable to the penalties contained in the Act. 
I now refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Casey. He said that  Mr Hawke  had acted properly in these negotiations with the Government on the Industrial Relations Bureau in not speaking as  President  of the ALP. As  President  of the ALP he could not have agreed not to oppose a Bureau that was armed with existing pains, penalties and processes. How could he do that? The policy of the Labor Party and the obligation upon every officer of the Labor Party are so perfectly plain that he could not have told the Government that he would offer no objection to the transfer to the Bureau of the penalties, pains and processes that the Arbitration Inspectorate now possesses. I was in the same position as  Mr Hawke  once when I was State Secretary of the Australian Workers Union and also State  President  of the Labor Party. On frequent occasions I had to change my hat. I had to take off my ALP hat and put on my AWU hat and act as a trade union official. I had to do some things then that would not have been done if I were thinking only of the political consequences to the Party of which I was State  President.  These things happen. They are understandable. 
The honourable member for Casey referred also to the Masters and Servants Act. He said, rightly so, that the Masters and Servants Act treated workers as chattels and slaves. That is what the present Act will do if it is implemented. That is what the existing pains, penalties and processes will do if they are not objected to. How do we know that now that the Government has the green light from the trade union movement that it will not object to the existing pains, penalties and processes that it will not go the whole hog? Of course it will and when it does, it will remind all those who protest that it is merely doing something to which the trade union movement said it did not object. That is something that no government has ever before had in its armoury. I believe that the trade union movement will live to rue the day that it ever agreed to say that it would offer no objection to the transfer of the existing pains, penalties and processes to the Bureau. 
If one looks at sections 32 and 41, one finds that it is possible for the Commission to put a provision in the award which says that it shall be an offence, punishable by a fine of $500 a day, for each individual worker who goes on strike against that award. No matter how justified that strike might be or how deep the grievance might be, if an individual member of a union goes on strike or breaches an award, he will be guilty of an offence rendering him liable only to a $500 a day penalty. But the employer is liable to a penalty of only $500 a day if he is engaged in a lockout. So if the 1 964 General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd strike had been a lock-out instead of a strike- iri other words, if General Motors had locked out the number of workers who were involved in that dispute for the number of days that that dispute lasted- the total penalty imposed upon General Motors under the existing Act, to which the unions say they have no objection, would have been a total fine of about $9,000. But if the penalties to which the unions say they will offer no objection had been imposed upon each employee of General Motors for each day that that dispute lasted, the aggregate fines would have been $220m. Now that is the sort of provision we are talking about. 
The present Act that we are describing- the present Act to which the unions say they will have no objection- does not allow a member of a union executive or any union official to incite a person to go on strike or to involve himself in even a go-slow strike, no matter how justified the action might be. The employer may have sacked the union representative; it may have been a case of where the employer deliberately set out to employ union scabs; it may have been a case of where the employer was refusing to supply proper safety requirements in his factory. If anybody seeks to go on strike and incite people to strike against an employer until the grievance is remedied, he will be liable to a $500 a day fine. 
A bad law, I believe, should be treated with contempt by the whole community. The penal law contained in the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act against strike action is a bad law and people ought to treat it with contempt. The only way in which a bad law can be defeated is by ignoring it and defying it until the Government is forced to remove it. Look at the history of mankind and the history of the human race. Read that great book of history,  The Martyrdom of Man,  and see how the tyranny of the ruling classes was thrown off. It was thrown off only by brave men defying the law as brave men always ought to defy a rotten law. A rotten law does not deserve the respect of anybody. And the strike penalties in the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act represent a rotten law and ought to be treated with contempt. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The question now is, 'That this Bill be read a second time'. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Opposition members- What! 
That the question be now put. 
All those of that opinion say aye; to the contrary, no. I think the ayes have it. The question now is, That this Bill be read a second time'. All those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no, I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition members- The noes have it. 
Question put- 
Thatthe Bill be now read a second time. 
I address my queston to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that following a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council some States are tackling at farm level the problem of infestation and damage to export wheat? Is it a fact that procedures and penalites are costly to administer and limited in their total effect? Will the Minister give consideration to the eventual elimination of weevil damage in silos by encouraging fumigation methods as currently recommended by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation? What are the problems involved in achieving this state of affairs? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 5 measures? There being no objection, I Wil allow that course to be followed. 
I rise to debate these Bills as chairman of the Government parties rural committee only because of the generosity of various members of the committee who have refused to take my place in the debate. I thank them for their loyalty and I shall attempt to cover their point of view. 
We are debating 5 dairy Bills of great significance to the dairy industry. The first 3 Bills concern the introduction of Stage 1 of the Industries Assistance Commission dairying plan which was primarily involved in giving legislative backing to the old voluntary equalisation scheme. They deal with milk which has been processed into butter, cheese and other milk products. The other 2 Bills propose to place on the statute book a law that can be triggered by decision of the Australian Agricultural Council in the event of the emergence of any serious threat to the stability of the domestic fluid milk market. This matter was most adequately covered by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in the excellent speech that he made a few minutes ago. Because I have noticed some misunderstanding in relation to these Bills it should be emphasised that the Government is not introducing levies on the domestic milk section of the market by virtue of this legislation. The Government proposes purely to put a law on the statute book in case it is deemed necessary in the future by the Agricultural Council whose role is to trigger such action in case of need to avoid any vast disruption to that market. 
Historically the dairying industry has never been short of its Messiahs, nor has it been shy in producing plans affecting future marketing. In my short memory a very interesting plan was produced by Edwards and Drane in 1959. That Edwards is perhaps better known today as the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards).  Amongst other matters they suggested a 2-tier price system for purchasing dairy production for the first time, as did a scheme put to the present Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  back in 1971. Since then, as the economics of the dairying industry have reeled from a world over supply of butter to an even bigger mountain of skim milk powder, and in Australia we have entered into extraordinarily difficult times of drought, the industry itself produced the Australian Dairy Corporation Plan, the Spectrum Plan and finally the Commonwealth equalisation committee plan. In the field of equalisation we have had the Norton plan and then more latterly the O'Brien plan. In the meantime Professor Crawford tabled on 1 1 November 1975 his first Industries Assistance Commission report. 
It is hardly surprising in retrospect that few people got around to studying this plan. In some ways I hold the personal belief that it possibly had more merit than did the later Crawford plan or IAC report commissioned by the present Government and on which the Bills under consideration today are based. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated that these legislative proposals are concerned only with Stage I of the IAC report and that it is hoped to introduce Stage II in approximately 12 months. The IAC, at least, looks on a slightly longer interval prior to the introduction of Stage III. Many members of my committee and State Ministers of Agriculture will not at this early stage look forward at all to that introduction. It would be a fair assumption to state that the Government parties rural committee finds no problem with the Bills before the House. On the other hand, it has several reservations about the legislation as it relates to the latter stages of the plan. Might I add that I personally have no particular reservations about the introduction of Stage II. 
Many of the doubts were placed in our minds by a most successful meeting held on 17 December last with representatives from the 
Dairy Corporation, the Milk Equalisation Committee and the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and representatives of various manufacturing interests, both proprietary and cooperative. In justice to those who were kind enough to attend this meeting, I must say that a full copy of the proceedings was sent to the Minister and I believe was studied by his Department. It was at this stage that the Minister for Primary Industry, chairing a series of Agricultural Council meetings, started to make real progress towards the consensus on which these Bills are founded It is perhaps true to say that the rapid progress made, greatly to the credit of the Minister, in some ways pre-empted the work done by the rural committee. However, it is true I think to take note of Bill Pyle, the  President  of the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria when he said 2 things of note. Firstly, he said: 'If you are going to introduce the IAC proposals, then don't tinker around with them too much because there is merit in the totality where alterations may prove to make the scheme unworkable'. Secondly, if I can paraphrase his remarks, he said: The situation of the dairying industry is in such an urgent position that action must be taken and people must see the merits in the total proposals '. The practical difficulties that then eventuated were, of course, that each State tended to make its own individual stand on one or several of the considerations. However, in spite of these difficulties, I believe we have before the House today a set of proposals which can achieve a great deal of rationality and which will work to the benefit of the industry as a whole. 
It is perhaps unfortunate that because of the actions of at least one State we are now posed with the problem in the dying stages of this session of Parliament of introducing quite radical changes to the structure of the dairying industry without a proper amount of time for debate. I seek leave of the House to table a Press report labelled  Victorian Delays to Federal Dairy Marketing Legislation. 
Initially may I commiserate with the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on his unsuccessful attempt today to become  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. However, it has its compensations for this side. We are delighted with the result and the honourable member can take that as he wishes. 
I suppose that even the honourable member for Newcastle would be a prospect for the position of shadow Minister for Rural Affairs. I do not know how he would shuffle that one. There would be another candidate, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who at least has a woolly look about him. Perhaps we could then look forward to having direct Opposition responsibility for rural affairs in this House for a change instead of having the Opposition hiding people away in another place. The honourable member for 
Blaxland accused the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and, I think, the Government of prevarication. As I will explain later on in my speech the opposite is the case. He confuses the need to negotiate, and to give all groups a proper chance to express their opinions, with prevarication. 
The Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill gives effect to proposals from the majority of elements of the industry to change the composition, powers, financial arrangements and salaries applicable to the current Australian Meat Board. The new Corporation envisaged by this legislation oversees the promotion and export of beef and veal, mutton and lamb, goat and buffalo meat as well as live cattle, buffalo, sheep, lambs and goats with the possibility later of the inclusion of pig meat and the export of live pigs. Statutory control over export marketing of meat has existed since the Meat Export Control Act 193S which established the Australian Meat Board. Changes have been made to the composition and powers of this Board on several occasions, including the Meat Industry Act 1 964. 
Since that time, with a large increase in the national cattle herd, a higher proportion of total production from this nation has gone to export. This simple fact has meant that the Government has to restructure the composition and powers of the Board for that internal reason and also for the external reasons whereby various countries, including those from behind the Iron curtain, now resort either to government to government arrangements for the purchase of beef and meat or, alternatively, by contracting with the wide variety of national boards and corporations. An understanding of these changed conditions is necessary to appreciate fully the Government's thinking in relation to changes to the composition, functions and powers of the new Corporation. I refer honourable members to statistics given in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry on 26 May which point to the huge increases in production and the export component and the value of meat exports themselves in Australia. This has increased by 270 percent from 1964 to 1973. 
Likewise, there has been a big change in the pattern of exports associated with this increase in volume. In 1963-64, 90 per cent of exports of beef and veal were shipped to the United States and the United Kingdom. There is no need for me at this stage to point to the difficulties that Australia has experienced with all trade to the European Economic Community with its insistence on an inward, selfish and artificial internal pricing mechanism that flowed from the Treaty of Rome. Although prior to the United Kingdom entering the Common Market the sight of Australian frozen beef carcasses at Smithfield did little to improve the image of Australian beef, we were still far too slow in those days to encourage innovation and arrange for Australian chilled beef to reach that important market. However, the changing pattern now shows that more than half of our beef exports in 1976 were consigned to the United States of America with growing markets in Canada, Japan, the Middle East and eastern Europe. Australia is now the largest single meat exporter in the world. This has occurred at a time when many importing countries face strong political pressure to protect their own production. 
The restrictions that this has imposed on Australian exports have led to a potential instability for us and small changes in demand overseas have had large ramifications on our sales and on the price structures of Australian producers. Rises in shipping freights, in some cases exorbitant rises, have cut into the final realisations of growers in this country as has the undue use of industrial muscle in process and killing meatworks thanks to the irresponsible years of the Whitlam Government and, perhaps, a Labor Minister's insistence on using the civil service as a pace setter in wages and conditions. Those working in meatworks have been granted an undue proportion of the final price available from export meat. Nor is this the end of the problem. More than one meatworks- I am thinking now of Consolidated Meat Holdings in Wodonga- has had to close for long periods due to industrial trouble. In many instances those striking are receiving much higher weekly payments in their pay packets than the producers of the commodity they process. New innovations and upgrading of mechanism has not brought the increase in productivity expected. I have in mind Murray Meats in Murray Bridge, which, 2 years ago, put a hide stripping machine on cattle killed at that meatworks. By the time it had finished negotiating with the unions it was a worthless exercise as regards the returns flowing to that factory and to the producer. 
It is against all these factors that the Government has now produced the new Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation. For nearly 9 months now, instead of prevaricating as the honourable member for Blaxland would have us believe, both the Minister for Primary Industry and others from the Government side, including members of the Government parties rural committee, have held negotiations with a large number of major rural industry organisations, consumer bodies and other interested people. Is this the honourable member's idea of prevarication? Everybody has not only agreed, but also requested that there should be change. In many cases there has been little unanimity as to what those changes should be. The Minister produced for consideration, as did the Government parties rural committee, a paper which was read out by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  as  deputy chairman  of our committee at a seminar called by the Minister in Sydney during, I think, February this year. All industry representatives were invited to make further submissions and to give additional thought to areas where it proved impossible to reach consensus. 
Because of the conflict of interests, particularly between rural organisations on the one hand and meat exporters on the other, the Government quite properly has had to adjudicate and come down with a structure for the new Corporation which it deems to be the most efficient method of streamlining its future functions. The national interest has been taken into account by increasing the administrative efficiency and flexibility of the operations of the new Corporation. I fully support the Government in the action it has taken and regard this new legislation as an historic move which is likely to increase the efficiency of handling Australia 's meat exports in all forms and likely to lead to a better feedback of information both to meat processors and exporters but, more particularly, to rural organisations and the grass roots producers themselves. 
I shall now touch on some of the reasons for my belief. Firstly, the powers of the Corporation itself have been extended. The Bill allows for this form of elasticity of operation by way of regulation. Matters of great concern to a more efficient pricing mechanism inside Australia, such as a system of meat classification, is a case in point. The sooner we can concoct an efficient method of harnessing the majority of meatworks to this system, the sooner Australian producers will receive the proper price for their product. There has been comment on the powers of the Minister included in this Bill. I seek leave to have incorp orated in  Hansard-I  have shown it to the h onourable member for Blaxland- a paper setting out a comparison of ministerial involvement and powers under the Meat Industry Act 1964 as compared with this new AMLC Act. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering those two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 May 1 977: 
1 ) Can the Minister supply details of the expenditure by State Governments in their funding of public library systems. 
If so, can the Minister distinguish between funds provided by State Governments for (a) free public libraries and (b) subscription institute libraries. 
What is the position regarding the inter-departmental committee report on the 1976 Horton Report on public libraries in Australia. 
Is the inter-departmental committee report to be made public. 
When may a Government statement on the Horton Report be expected. 
Is it possible for future Federal Government budgets to make matching grants available to State Governments in order to promote the growth of free public libraries. 
Can the Minister say what different types of State legislation are applied to public library systems within each State, e.g. are costs shared $ for $ between State and local governments, etc. 
Can the Minister also say whether State Governments provide within their legislation for State Library Boards with jurisdiction over public libraries throughout urban and rural communities. 
If so, what States provide Boards, and what are their various powers. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197708174_38_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197708174_38_2.jpg"></graphic>

Politicians of Western Nations ought not to be eligible for election until they have travelled the ancient world. They should be made to see how easy it is for the constant sea of savagery, which flows forever round the small island of civilisation, to break in and destroy. Asia Minor was once as highly organised as Europe is today: a land of large cities. 
Yet a few centuries of occupation by a static race have seen the highest pillars fall to earth. 
I sincerely trust that every honourable member in the House will apply himself to the report because many of the recommendations will be crucial for the welfare of this country. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister noticed the recommendation in a recent Senate committee report that import duty on imported brandy should be raised by 35c to the level applying to other spirits? Is the Government aware of early forecasts of a huge grape surplus in 1978? Is the Minister aware that surplus grapes can be stored economically only in spirit or brandy form? Will the Government study the implication of this important recommendation, which could work in the interests of sorely pressed grape growers throughout Australia? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Order! The honourable member for Hotham will resume his seat. The honourable member for Port Adelaide will not make scurrilous remarks by way of interjection when another honourable member is speaking. I warn honourable members that the debate which has been going on quite intelligently, albeit heatedly, must not become a rabble. 
We are now debating one of the most important pieces of legislation ever brought into this House by the Fraser Government. This legislation could be the cause of bringing Australia to a situation of industrial paralysis. It could give unilateral powers to a Minister or Ministers, the like of which as far as I know do not exist in any other piece of legislation. This legislation massively infringes the rights of tens of thousands of loyal public servants. It allows them to be stood down or sacked with the loss of all privileges by any Minister or by an authority instructed by a Minister. It gives politicians the power to stand down public servants for no fault of their own. The second reading speech of the Minister for 
Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  admits that. Is the Parliament going to vote for such legislation? Is the Liberal Party going to vote for such legislation seeing that it champions the ordinary person, the worker? Are members of the Liberal Party going to vote for legislation which gives a Minister or an authority on the instruction of a Minister, power to stand down a trade unionist when his inactivity has absolutely nothing to do with himself? I have had 10 minutes to read the Bill. I do not know how long other honourable members have had. Trade unionists or any member of the Public Service can be stood down after a declaration because of industrial action. The Bill defines industrial action as: 
the performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to work, the result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of the work. 
That might sound fair. But two magical words are not in that definition. The words are 'in Australia'. Industrial action in the port of New York, or London, or wherever, which causes trade unionists or public servants in Australia to be idle, means that they can be stood down or even dismissed because this power is given to the Minister. I think that is a monstrous provision to bring into the Parliament without consultation and without proper debate. I shall explain some more of the details in a moment. I deal now with how the Bill was introduced. I think there is common agreement that this is not an ordinary piece of legislation. It is massively important not only in itself but also in its ramifications. I am angry about the way in which the Government has treated the Parliament with such contempt. There was a notice on the daily program, the blue sheet. It simply stated: 
Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill-  Mr Street  ... to present Bill. First reading. Second reading to be moved. Debate adjourned. 
I have been Leader of the House and I know the procedures for printing the blue sheet. Instructions are given by the Government through its officer to the Clerks who organise the printing of the sheet. Were the words 'debate adjourned' used in an attempt to mislead the House? There is no indication on the blue sheet that the Bill would be declared an urgent Bill, guillotined and pushed through the House by weight of numbers by 9.30 tonight. There are only two possible conclusions to reach. Either the Government changed its mind after 9 o'clock or 9.30 this morning and decided to make this an urgent Bill or the Government deliberately misled the House; the Government, through the blue sheet, told a lie to the House when it stated that the debate would be adjourned. But I would not assume the latter to be the case. Therefore, one comes inevitably to the first conclusion. Why did the Government between 9.30 this morning and 4 o'clock this afternoon decide to guillotine the Bill? Are not any members of the Government interested in that? Is nobody interested in that sort of proposition? The legislation is vital to the nation and we are asked to steam-roll it through. With great respect to honourable members on the Government side, whose intelligence I respect, I am persuaded that most of them do not understand the ramifications of this Bill. It is so complex and complicated. It would be impossible to absorb the material in the Bill without consultation with the trade union movement in the few hours longer that members of the Government have had to look at the Bill than I and honourable members opposite have had. I came into the House and heard to my astonishment that the Bill was being declared an urgent Bill. What grieves me more and makes me angry is that the Melbourne  Herald  knew about this matter at 10 o'clock this morning because that is the time it goes to bed and this information was in its second edition. 
Does the Government really believe that the House understands the Bill properly? The only reason given for urgency is a vague reference by the Minister who delivered the second reading speech on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  concerning mail services. The next  speaker  from the Government side, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  gave us the clue. I think he delivered a fairly cogent and cohesive speech about the trouble we are having with postal services. But neither Minister gave a reason for the urgency of the Bill. We have the legislation being rushed through today. But there is an incongruity which I cannot understand. Because it is urgent, it could not be brought in on Tuesday to give us a chance to think about it. We were misled, either purposely or not on purpose, by what is printed on the blue business sheet. The Bill is to be rushed through the House by 9.30 p.m. and its passage cannot wait until Tuesday. Yet we have this incredible statement at the end of the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
Finally, let me emphasise that it would be the Government's hope that it would not be necessary . . . that this Bill will be passed by Parliament but not be proclaimed to operate unless circumstances so dictate. 
Those statements are in absolute and direct contradiction, if I understand anything about the English language. The Government is guillotining a Bill for the first time- rushing it through the Parliament by 9.30 tonight. It cannot wait until Tuesday so that honourable members can leave this place and consult with reasonable trade unionists on the implications. We cannot ascertain whether it will lead to industrial paralysis and whether the moderates in the trade union movement will be put into a corner by the militantsthe communists and the people destined to give us trouble. We want to consult with people on this legislation. With the contacts that we have-when I say 'we' I mean all back benchers of this Parliament- perhaps we could have consulted the people about the impact of this Bill. But it cannot wait. We are not told why it cannot wait. After the legislation has been pushed through the Parliament, it will not be proclaimed until circumstances so dictate. Do we assume from that that circumstances are expected to arise between 9.30 p.m. tonight and 2.15 p.m. next Tuesday? Are we expected to believe that? If so, I believe that this Parliament deserves to be told just that. I believe that at least it deserves that sort of courtesy. There has been no consultation- if there has been, the Minister did not mention it- with the trade union movement on this Bill. As I understand it, there has been no consultation with the high council of the while collar workers upon whom this Bill has a fundamental effect. 
I objected to the trade practices legislation. At the time of its introduction 70 odd pages of legislation plus 12 pages of amendments were brought into this House. That legislation was steamrolled through after three speakers a side had spoken on it. That is a Bill which affected every human being in this country. I say with no disrespect that there would not have been five members of this House who understood that Bill or who understood what the amendments did to it. I have said before that is is almost a joke now for us to come to this Parliament. It is a joke for the Opposition to come here because Opposition members are treated with contempt. It is almost a joke for the back bench members to come here because this Parliament is ruled by the Executive. The Executive is no longer responsible to or accountable to this Parliament. When that happens in a democracy, I believe it is a dangerous thing. It is even more dangerous when legislation of this nature is not only introduced into this House but also is guillotined through the House in a matter of a few hours. 
What does the Bill do? I ask honourable members to turn to clause 6. A quick reading of the clause indicates to me that it gives the power to somebody to sack or stand-down a public servant after years of faithful service. The clause states that the employee does not have entitlement to salary, wages or other remuneration or allowances. Does that mean that an employee is not entitled to long service leave? Does it mean that he is not entitled to holiday pay? Does it apply to seniority? I do not know that it does. I would not believe for a moment that this is the case because that would be quite outrageous. But we are not told that this is the case. Can back benceh members of Parliament, particularly my friends from the National Country Party, who attempted to interject before and say that they know all about this Bill, tell me whether clause 6 means that if someone is stood down or dismissed, that person will lose his long service leave? I am afraid the thunderous silence indicates that they do not know. 
If members of the National Country Party have understood this Bill do they agree with the provisions of clause 8. Do they agree that the employing authority or a Minister may terminate the employment of an employee? Do they say that a Minister now has the power to arbitrarily sack any individual trade union member? 
An employing authority shall comply with any directions given to the authority by a Minister - 
This clause specifically gives the Minister power to instruct an authority. In conclusion, I express my concern about this legislation. If the Government had introduced something about the Redfern Mail Exchange and the monstrous conduct of the postal workers, that would have had my support. But nowhere in this Bill is mention made of postal workers. It affects every trade unionist, every worker in the Public Service in Australia. 
I am reminded of the reference in cricket language of times gone by to Washack and Toshbrook. At this stage I am not quite sure whether I am listening to  Mr Hurden  or  Mr Hayford.  I suppose we could resolve the situation by using Christian names once again. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  commented on tax scales in the new Budget. I remind him that the dairying industry last year averaged, as gross returns, $1,400 per dairy farmer. Will they be eliminated from taxation rates under the new scheme? Of course they will be and so will a lot of other primary producers. Never let the honourable member forget that. But the interesting question probably is: Why were the returns to these dairy farmers or beef producers or horticulturists so low? The reason was that cost increases after the debacle of 3 years of Australian Labor Party government have decimated those industries. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the figures dealing with prices paid by farmers from 1970-71 onwards. 
I completely refute the words of the honourable member for Oxley- I am confused as to whether he is  Mr Hurdon  or  Mr Hayford-  one of the fiscal twins. The House now has been treated to a matter of public importance concerning the rural community from each of them. They are vying with each other even in rural matters, which I find a trifle amazing. 
I do not know where the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is at present, but I presume that he is not in the House today. I am glad that the honourable member asked about the honourable member for Corio, because it was during the debate which he instigated the week before last that we were told that he had been reported in the Press as having distributed to his colleagues a list of rural seats which had to be won by the Australian Labor Party if it were to regain power. Now we know the reason for these matters of public importance. It is an attempt to win power; let us not mistake it. The honourable member for Corio said that if the seats were not won Labor need think only about shadow ministries. That is just the point. He went on to say that it was his job to convince his parliamentary colleagues of the need to win these rural seats with at least as much effort as they had put into losing them. 
Let us stop and think about the effort they put into losing those rural seats. We have heard today two speeches which have stressed the importance of minerals- this is understandable coming from my friend the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)-  and the price of fuel. This is really the limit of their scope as rural spokesmen and rural debaters. I cannot blame them for sticking to their speciality. But what the House and the people ought to stop and think about is: Who took petrol price equalisation away from country people? Did this Government take it away? Did the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is sitting at the table, take it away? The Labor Party took it away, and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who has just left the chamber, was a member of the Cabinet that took away petrol price equalisation. What does the honourable member for Oxley do? He does nothing. He walks out of the House because he does not want to hear the news. Time and again during the sojourn of the Labor Party, and using the words used by the honourable member for Corio in that Press release, it set about losing rural seats as best it could. Now because the Labor Party has realised that it cannot gain government unless it wins some rural seats, we have the spectacle of the fiscal twins, Hayden and Hurford, or Hurford and Haydenwhichever way around they are- vying for position and trying to win back what popularity they can. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned a little while ago an error of fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  put up once again, this time in Queensland. I have just been informed that the previous  speaker  in this debate, the honourable member for Oxley,  as with him in Queensland and that is the honourable member for Oxley 's home State. They were looking at the rural areas there. In a Press release the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Oxley said that the Fraser Government, at the time that it was restoring the superphosphate bounty, struck a heavy blow at the Queensland sugar industry by abolishing nitrogenous fertiliser. That is incorrect. All I can say is that I wish the Opposition luck. It is not going to win rural seats because rural people are pretty well informed. Members of the Opposition are going around the place making statements that are not true. That statement I mentioned was not true. This Budget stopped the final phasing out of the subsidies on nitrogenous fertilisers. Nitrogenous fertilisers are being subsidised in the home State of the honourable member for Oxley. They are being subsidised in South Australia in my electorate for the benefit of fruit growers there. I am sorry that I do not have enough time to read the statement by the Labor Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Chatterton,  in which he pointed out that it is meaningless whether this subsidy is kept on or not. That is what the Labor Minister for Agriculture said in my own State. 
Are we going to hear what the Labor Party believes in or not? I suggest that honourable members, to use the vulgar vernacular, try this for size: In South Australia just prior to Christmas the Premier of that Labor-held State produced a form of agreement between Riverlands Product Company and the South Australian State Industries Assistance Commission. It was produced then for a variety of reasons which I will not go into at this stage. Just before Christmas all growers were in a hostage position. They were all poverty stricken and wanted the disbursement of further funds. Through this agreement the South Australian Government was to make $272,000 available to that co-operative company for disbursement. I will not go into the technical reasons now. The agreement contained many clauses that were open to question but I want to refer to one of them today because it shows what can happen once the Labor Party gets its commune concept into rural industry. 
The clause I refer to would not specify how many new board members should be appointed by the State LAC to control that co-operative. 
The number was not specified. It did not take much imagination to see that it was possible for control of that co-operative to be taken over for $272,000. There was $1.8m of growers' funds in reserve just for a start. I am not saying that that was necessarily the intention but that is what happens when incompetent people stick their fingers into the problems of rural areas about which they know nothing. There was that possibility. I was very glad that I was there to point this out to the board at the time. There was a possibility that complete control of the growers' co-operative could have been taken over for $272,000. 
Let us not run away and say that everything we have done so far for rural industries is the end of the journey. It is not. In my rural committee at the moment we have five sub-committees looking at five key areas in which we want to suggest reform to the Government. Some of these reforms will be pretty revolutionary if we can get them past the scrutiny of the financial experts later in the piece. 
I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table showing the indices of total prices paid by farmers from 1970-71 onwards. I have shown it to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Table 1 

<graphic href="106131197709062_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

The second disquieting attitude of this Budget is the way it maintains the downward drift in the family living standards which the Fraser Government has encouraged. Taking into account all the actions of the Fraser-Lynch Budget of last year the standard of living of Australian families, as measured by after tax income, has fallen by 3.3 per cent in real terms. Family income would need to rise by $9 a week to restore the purchasing power of the 1 976-77 income to the level of 1975-76. The blame for this massive erosion of family living standards can be sheeted home to the present Government. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing these outstanding figures for the last two years. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709062_31_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197709062_31_1.jpg"></graphic>

I now turn to the priorities reflected in this Budget. Volumes have been spoken and written in the past couple of weeks about the Government's tax proposals, particularly the personal income tax scheme. At long last the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has been caught out by his own waffle and by his sheer inability to say anything clearly. He deserves the criticism which has been levelled at him and heaped upon him for his sloppiness. The Treasurer's plight should not mask the real purposes of these tax changes. They have been designed to bring about a massive redistribution among taxpayers. Again I seek leave to incorporate tables in  Hansard. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709062_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

More than half of taxpayers have incomes below $8,400 and will be worse off from the new system as opposed to a fully indexed old system. 
About 80 per cent of taxpayers have incomes below $ 1 1 ,300. 
As a means of encouraging greater productivity, greater thrift and greater activity the new system is a fraud. It is not an incentive scheme; it is a naked attempt to redistribute incomes from the lower income earners to the higher income earners. It is a scheme which has been carefully engineered to yield its maximum impact over the last 22 weeks of this financial year. During these weeks taxpayers will get a distorted impression of their actual level of savings. The crunch will not come until 1 July next year when it will emerge quite clearly that the prospect of reduced taxes was an illusion. If the Government has in mind an election next May the new tax scheme is perfectly suited to its purposes. It will give maximum benefits during the period of the election- in other words, in that period from 1 February until the end of Junebut the real bump will come on 1 July. This is one aspect of the new tax scheme which the Government has carefully avoided. 
If we set these tax savings against other costs facing wage and salary earners in 1977-78 we find that all wage earners earning less than $15,000 a year will be worse off. These, of course, are the overwhelming majority of taxpayers. More than 50 per cent of all taxpayers earn less than $8,400 a year. The Fraser Government is attempting the same sort of redistribution within the company sector. There is to be an increase of 3^ per cent in company tax. The higher company tax rate hits hardest at the small businesses which cany much of the tax burden of the company sector. The Government will receive an extra $203m from the rise in the rate of company tax. Much of this extra revenue will be derived from smaller businesses. Next year the Government will give back to big business some $79 lm by maintaining two of the large tax concessions of the 1976 Budget. These are the stock valuation adjustment and the investment allowance. The Government is milking the small business sector to divert income to the big companies which are its real supporters. The small business sector cannot pass on the increase in company tax. 
The redistribution of income to the big corporationsmany of them trans-nationals- appears in other Budget concessions. It gives the big coal exporters about $60m- made up of $36m last year and $24m this year. The Government's great supporter, Utah Development Company, will receive a great deal of that money. The Government will give to the oil companies $150m, with $1 10m alone going to EssoBHP and some $48m to Wapet, which is sixsevenths owned by overseas interests. This is all part of a pattern of shifting resources to a small group of big corporations which are in turn shifting resources out of Australia. 
I do not have time now to go into detail about my shadow portfolio responsibility of urban and regional development, but we know that in broad terms the area covered by the former Department of Urban and Regional Development was attacked more ruthlessly than any other Department. Overall outlays in the broadly defined urban sector have fallen by 32 per cent compared with the last Budget of the Labor Government. Two important urban and regional development programs, the national sewerage program and the area improvement programme latter program was to assist local governmenthave been abandoned completely. I will take this matter up in greater detail during discussion of the Estimates. I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the real cuts m the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development over the last two years. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

I want to conclude by stressing what I said last year in my speech in the Budget debate. I said then that the Fraser Government never takes the blame for any of its mistakes. It has to have scapegoats. Last year the scapegoat was the trade union movement. This year this Government is ruthlessly and aggressively exploiting its ruling position to change material relations in our society. Australians are used to relative prosperity. Changes of the present kind, which involve massive falls in the living standards of most of our people, have never happened so fast before. The people will not allow this to happen this time. The Government must expect them to defend their rights in every way. If the Fraser 

<graphic href="106131197709062_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

Government persists in its attitude it will do irreparable damage to the social fabric of the Australian community. I urge this Government to pull back at this time and to come to a better understanding of the people who really need assistance from this Government. The  speaker  who is to follow me in this debate, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  who is a strong critic of this Government and its policies, knows the need for change and the need for stimulus. He knows the need to stimulate the public sector which in turn can assist the private sector. He has been advocating that in the quarters in which he moves. He knows that the tightness of this Government's policies is going to create more unemployment and more inequality in our society. I ask people with decency on the Government side of the chamber to support the Labor Party's criticism of this Budget. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker will do. 
-Order! The honourable member will not reflect personally on any other member. I will not ask him to withdraw his remark, but I ask him to remember that in future. 
With the reputation of migrants standing high as good credit risks, a scheme - 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I gather that the honourable member for Griffith is die next  speaker.  I suggest he should keep his remarks for that occasion. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709132_35_1.jpg"></graphic>

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry noticed a statement made by the Premier of South Australia that Sl.Sm has now been spent by the South Australian Government on drought relief in South Australia? Is that statement correct? How long a period can be covered by a State applying for such Commonwealth Government reimbursement? Can employment schemes be counted in such expenditure? Will the Federal Government, subject to the considerations I have mentioned, be prepared to honour its previous agreement which, in the case of 
South Australia, depends on its originally spending $ 1.5m on that basis? 
I think it probably is as well to go through what this Government has done since it has been in office. I refer to the Queensland Grant (Prosperpine Flood Mitigation) Act, the Act affecting the Namoi River Weirs in New South Wales, and the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Act 1976 and also I refer the House to the Budget papers where honourable members will see mention of the Ross River Dam which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  mentioned in passing and urban water supply grants of $22.5m which will be provided to South Australia. I have just had time to find a speech given by the Leader of the Opposition in 1974 to the Murray Valley Development League. I notice he mentions that one should query the amount of public funds used-seriously though they must be viewed, if one can take note of a specimen which the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  held up in the House the other day- in relation to the salinity which is not cured by the nitration processes. In those days the Leader of the Opposition was talking a lot of sense. 
Of course, salinity in my State remains a secondary issue to the whole future not only of the development of South Australia but also of the substantiation of what is there now. It is secondary only to the volume of water. I shall talk about that a little bit as I am grateful that the honourable gentleman mentioned Adelaide. Before I do I refer to a Press release dated 1 973 which states: 

 Mr Fairbairn, Opposition spokesman on National Development, said today that he was horrified to learn that  Mr Whitlam  had written to  Mr Dunstan  informing him that the Federal Government had endorsed one recommendation of the Coombs Task Force that, if possible, the rate of construction of the Dartmouth Dam might be slowed down. 
The Press release also stated: 
The attempt to delay the building of a dam which was already authorised must make us all realise that the possibility of any new money - 
That has a familiar ring about it- being made available under the National Water Resources Development program during the life of the Whitlam Government is either extremely rare or non-existent. 
There is a familiarity between the terminology of 1973 and precisely what the Leader of the Opposition tried to tell the House today. The truth is that there was an era of development, based largely on water resources, for some years in this country. One can think of the Nogoa Dam, which became known as the Fairbairn Dam, and of the Ord River. It is worth thinking about the Ord to see whether that was a proper use of development funds or whether they could have been better used in some other way. It is all right to speak now with hindsight. That was an era of development. That era came to a halt, not with the advent of this Government but, as  Mr Fairbairn  pointed out in his Press release, with the advent of the Whitlam Government. I would like the next  speaker,  I think it is the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  to explain to me where the Whitlam Government allocated funds for water resources. If I remember rightly, in the days when  Mr Fairbairn  was Minister, $150m or $2S0m a year was allocated for that purpose. 
-As far as my memory goes, having just been alerted that I was to reply to this matter of public importance, the Whitlam Government certainly did not make any allocation. He cannot have his cake and eat it too. Either the Whitlam Government stopped allocating funds in this way for the proper harnessing of resources or, as he maintained, we did. I think he is wrong. I am certain that any accurate look at the National Water Resources Fund by any impartial observer on the political scene will show that Prime Minister Whitlam fixed that one and settled it once and for all. 
I want to take a little time in following up this matter because it has caused most serious concern to me and to a lot of people in South Australia. In about 1970, I think, the Minister,  Mr Fairbairn,  announced, to the horror of South Australia at the time, that the total yield to South Australia would be greater if a dam were constructed at Dartmouth and not at Chowilla. He had a very torrid time getting through to the people of South Australia the economic sense of the proposition. It is all very well to have hindsight. At that time Premier Steele Hall negotiated with the Federal Government for an increase of disposable water for South Australia of 37 per cent- a total of 0.25 million acre feet, if my memory serves me right. To this day that remains the last significant action taken by anybody to care for, protect or increase the water flow or the water resources available to South Australia. 
What happened after that? The  Speaker  in the South Australian Parliament was an Independent. I suppose the  Speaker  should be independent. Steele Hall did not have the numbers to enable him to sign indenture agreements with the Commonwealth Government for the building of Dartmouth Dam.  Speaker  Stott stood him up on that issue. So we had a somewhat historic election campaign at that time on the issue of whether Dartmouth Dam should be built. Logically, looking back and being wise with hindsight, it was not an issue that attracted the bulk of the people. Other issues were flying around. Steele Hall was defeated. Never let us forget that he got 37 per cent more disposable water for South Australia, the driest State in the Commonwealth. I am trying to compress my detailing of the sequence of events into a few minutes. With the defeat of Hall's Government, Dunstan 's party won the seat of Chaney, which is currently in the federal electorate of Angas. He won it on the promise that he would renegotiate with the Whitlam Government the prospect of building Chowilla Dam not Dartmouth Dam.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will excuse me for not being political as there is to be an election in South Australia this weekend. Quite frankly the action of  Mr Dunstan  was regarded and is regarded in that area now as a highly irresponsible action. He won the seat. 
-The present Premier of South Australia. He won the seat then, but he has not won it since because people know he did not mean to renegotiate on the Chowilla Dam. In general, his stocks in that area are not very high because of his action. I suppose that is what politics is about. 
I shall deal with things in chronological order. Next there was a big debate in which the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and myself were on either side of the central table. We agreed on all sorts of things-I will not mention them- which have come into effect since then. Some of them came into effect during the period of office of the Whitlam Government. From the point of view of South Australia the Whitlam Government achieved nothing, bar very minor alterations to the River Murray Commission Act. The Premier of South Australia has achieved nothing. In fact he has allowed salinity levels below the Waikerie area this year in excess of 1,000 parts per million. He has done nothing at all at this stage. One of the issues in the present election is water. The Liberal Party has said that it will negotiate with the Federal Government for the building of a second dam on the River Murray. It is not being parochial or one-eyed saying that the dam must be built at Chowilla, but it is appreciated that there must be a further increase in water resources to that State. 
Let us look for a minute at the problems which flow to South Australia. After Premier Steele Hall negotiated an increased water supply the people of South Australia were fairly happy because they thought this would eventuate. To their amazement, on a celebrated occasion in this House  Mr Uren,  the Minister for Urban and 
Regional Development, made an announcement that the decision to build Albury-Wodonga was a purely political decision. That announcement had the House a trifle amazed at the time. He also said that we need not worry about water resources because Dartmouth Dam would be in a position to supply the extra requirements. This introduced a real problem for South Australia. At that time I gave the advice- I have not any reason to withdraw it- that both the Dunstan Government and the Whitlam Government should, as responsible parties to the agreement that established Albury-Wodonga, have put in an optimum pollution count that must be abided by, for the future protection of South Australia. That was not done. I probably made three or four speeches on this issue. 
Today South Australia is drawing in excess of three-quarters of its total water supply from the River Murray. There are appalling salinity problems. The water is drawn not only for Adelaide but for the Morgan- Whyalla pipeline and other areas also. I shall not seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a list of these areas. I merely quote the figures which I gave at the time. Albury-Wodonga, with an ultimate population of 300,000, will require 10.9 billion gallons a year, based on an estimate of 100 gallons per person. Monarto, with an ultimate population of 200,000, will require 7.3 billion gallons a year. The requirements of the Port Pirie petrochemical plant, Port Stanvac, Riverland towns, local industries, Whyalla, Port Pirie and Port Augusta industry build up an enormous total with which the resources of the State cannot cope. 
One of the few long term projections that the Premier of South Australia grabbed hold of and shook around on several occasions was requests of this Government and I believe of the Whitlam Government to use some source of nuclear power so that desalination methods could be adopted to help the entire State of South Australia to get quality water, if a sufficient quantity could be obtained. Only in the past 6 months have we seen him running away totally from that picture. One ponders where South Australia will finish up unless someone has the intestinal fortitude to grab hold of this issue again and to try to promote it for the sake of the people of South Australia. 
I think I have said enough, in a quiet and nonprovocative style, to point out to the House that we did not stop the national water resources fund. The big era of dam building and water resource harnessing in Australia under previous Minister Fairbairn was some years ago. It did not stop with this Government. I have indicated the schemes with which we are involved now. The era of the harnessing of those water supplies stopped with the Whitlam Government, which took advantage of the recommendations of the Coombs task force. At the time those recommendations quite possibly were correct, although most of them were not looked upon as being correct by people in my electorate. Really and truly, with great respect, I think the Leader of the Opposition, particularly after his tour through Queensland, has got on to a lame duck with this because he cannot blame us for any difference in trend- the trend was there before, with his Government. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709143_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

I think it would be fair to state that over the last two years nursing home fees should have risen at approximately the general inflation rate in the community although in fact the fees have risen at a higher rate. Inflation rates vary quite significantly from State to State. I have no way by which to determine why they vary so significantly. I will give the figures that I have used so that the Minister can at some stage give some explanation. The assumed percentage increase in nursing home costs for a 9-month period which I have used for the purposes of working out an expected standard rate fee for June 1978 are as follows: New South Wales, 13 per cent; Victoria, 11 per cent; Queensland, 13 per cent; South Australia, 1 1 per cent; Western Australia, 17 per cent; and Tasmania, 16 per cent. I have based those percentages on cost increases during the previous two years. I do not know why there should be such a big difference, for example, between Victoria and Western Australia. 
The second last line of my table sets out the expected standard weekly fee at June 1978. In the final line I have subtracted the expected standard weekly fee from the proposed standard weekly fee as of 1 October. The difference, of course, if the nursing homes are allowed to increase their charges by that amount, will be the amount patients will have to contribute in addition to what they receive from either the Government or from the funds plus their own patient contribution as it exists at the present time. 
The patient contribution will, in fact, increase slightly during that time because pensions will go up during that time. The patient contribution is basically the single pension rate. I have calculated that in about nine months' time a New South Wales nursing home patient or his relatives will be up for about $18 a week. The amount in Queensland will be nearly $17 a week and in Victoria it will be about $20 a week. 
It is also important to remember that already many beds cost much more to maintain than the standard weekly fee. An answer to question No. 247 asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  appears at pages 975 to 979 of  Hansard  of 8 September. The question and answer relate to areas which could not be regarded as well-off areas even though some of them are temporarily represented by members of the Liberal Party. I refer particularly to the electorates of Parramatta and Mitchell. In his reply the Minister gave the names of nursing homes approved under the National Health Act, their addresses and their weekly charges as at 31 July 1977. We find that the fees charged in the first four nursing homes in the Parramatta electorate are above the proposed standard fee for 1 October. So already at the end of July this year the first four nursing homes mentioned in alphabetical order charged more than the proposed standard fee. For example, the Aloha nursing home at Epping as at 31 July charged $152.18 a week for two, three and four bed wards. The proposed standard fee will be only $142.45 a week. Therefore the patient will have to contribute about $10. The charge for a one-bed ward was $173. It is fair enough that patients wishing to be placed in a one-bed ward should contribute much more. The minimum charge at the Curie Nursing Home was $151.55 and' the maximum charge was $163.45. We can see from these figures, taking into account that there has been no increase in the standard fee from 1 July, that patients are already paying $10 a week more than the benefits they will receive. I think it is important to realise that fact. 
In passing I would like to point out what is required, certainly in the capital cities. What is required is a type of nursing home bed clearance section such as the hospital bed clearance sections. If a medical practitioner has difficulty in finding a bed in a nursing home he should be able to ring a telephone number and tell the person running the bed clearance section, whether it be run by the Department of Health or some voluntary organisation, that he has a patient with a certain medical condition who requires a bed in a nursing home. The section should then try to organise a bed for that patient. I understand that something akin to this is run by the New South Wales Council for the Aging. I think it has difficulty in running this service without accepting commission from the nursing homes. I think the Minister would agree with me that it would not be a good idea for that sort of bed clearance section to be run by an organisation which gets kickbacks from the nursing homes because other problems would arise. The New South Wales Council for the Aging is subsidised by the Department of Social Security. It is not under the Minister's control. I understand that its subsidy has remained unchanged since 1972 or 1973. It has had to dismiss one of its very small staff just at a time when it is trying to get something worthwhile for the aged. 
I want to refer to some other proposals by this Government. The first matter I will mention is costing. I do not want to be too critical of public servants because I know the difficulty under which they work. Obtaining statistics involves getting co-operation from all kinds of people, from nursing homes, from State government departments and from federal departments. All kinds of surveys are necessary. However, I have little confidence in the final figures provided. Holmes suggested at page 96 of his report that there would be a saving of $75m if the funds paid nursing home benefits and that about 33 per cent of the people belong to funds. The Minister for Health suggested in the  Medical Letter  about two weeks ago that about 30 per cent of nursing home patients belong to funds and this would provide a saving of $S0m. There is very little difference between the 30 per cent mentioned by the Minister and the 33 per cent mentioned by Holmes in his report yet there is a difference of SO per cent in the amount to be saved by the Government. I do not know the correct answer. Holmes admitted that he was guessing to a large extent. I do not know whether the Minister was guessing or was hoping or was confident about the figure. That is one of the difficulties that arise when I look at the answer by the Minister to which I referred previously. After all, he is responsible for the answers to questions that he provides for  Hansard 
The Minister was asked the names and addresses of registered nursing homes in certain electorates, including my own electorate of Prospect. At page 978 of  Hansard,  reference is made to four nursing homes. Three of them are not in my electorate. The addresses are provided. It would have been just a matter of looking up the publication produced by the Commonwealth Electoral Office or at a map in order to ascertain which nursing homes were in which electorate. The publication produced by the Commonwealth Electoral Office contains lists of streets, roads, et cetera in the Sydney area together with the subdivision, Commonwealth division and State electorates in which each thoroughfare is located. I suggest that the Minister's officers obtain a copy of that publication for use when providing answers for  Hansard.  It was really silly for the Minister to say that there were four nursing homes in my electorate. I have no objection to having nursing homes in my electorate. One of those mentioned is only a short distance away but two others are some distance away from my electorate. At least one of the nursing homes set out as being in the electorate of Mitchell is in the middle of my electorate. When I look at answers like that I do not have much confidence about other answers. I assume that the Public Service is particularly keen to provide correct answers for Ministers and members of parliament. 
Holmes suggested that the funds ought to be paying for people who are privately insured. To some extent this suggestion has been adopted by this Government. I agree with Holmes' suggestion. However I am not so sure that the $50m in savings which the Minister mentioned or the $7Sm which Holmes mentioned will be anything like the true figure. I think that what will happen is that there will be an increase in the Commonwealth subsidy. I hope not. The Minister for Health seems to be fairly aggressive about the private funds at the present time because they have been running a campaign against him. I hope that will put some backbone into his relations with the funds. 
In that sum of $135, there is a significant element of government subsidy. I think it is between $40 and $50 per year per family. 
One of the interesting things is the significant difference between the States in the use of nursing homes and the cost of nursing homes. Figures provided to me show that at 30 April this year the proportion of nursing home patients in New South Wales receiving intensive care, as it is called at present, or extensive care, as it will be called after 1 October, was 39.84 per cent. Let us say 40 per cent. In Victoria two months previously, and I assume that these are comparable figures, the proportion of intensive care patients was 93 per cent. What a huge difference- 40 per cent in New South Wales as against 93 per cent in Victoria. I suppose that that helps explain the standard weekly fees in each State. The Government is now doubling its subsidy for extensive care patients from $3 per day to $6 per day. One hopes that that will encourage the Victorian fees to come down closer to the fees in other States. To take two extremes, the proposed standard weekly fee in Victoria as from 1 October 1977 will be $184.45 and in Western Australia it will be $129.15-a huge difference of $55.30 a week. It is difficult to see why that should be so. I have given the proportion of intensive care patients in New South Wales and Victoria but I will give one additional figure so that people who are interested in this subject will be able to find this information in  Hansard.  The national figure, excluding Tasmania, for the proportion of intensive care patients at February this year was 67.42 per cent of all patients. That is nearly double the figure for New South Wales but still well below the Victorian figure of 93 per cent. 
I will leave it to others who are participating in the debate to mention some of the other relevant points in the legislation and the general problems. I know that this area is a difficult problem. Generally speaking we are dealing with an age group that can be divided into categories from a medical point of view, even though this may be an over-simplification and may involve a significant amount of overlapping. The categories would be the well, the frail and the sick, and it is terribly important from the point of view of the aged people affected and from the point of view of the community which has to bear a significant proportion of the cost to make quite sure that these different categories of patients are in the most appropriate accommodation for them, whether that be their own homes, hostels, nursing homes or hospitals. We should make sure that as many people as possible are able to get into accommodation appropriate to their category so that we avoid a patient being put into, say, a nursing home, not because he needs nursing home accommodation but because no other kind of accommodation is available. This will need co-operation between the Department of Health and other government departments such as the Department of Social Security, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and Treasury. They are all relevant departments. It is a question of trying to provide accommodation for aged people at an appropriate cost so that such accommodation is available to the aged in our community to prevent their health deteriorating and then being admitted unnecessarily to either hospitals or nursing homes. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709202_52_2.jpg"></graphic>

Let me turn to one little item- family allowances. The Government has indexed taxation. It has indexed a number of things. Why did it not index family allowances? Under the old taxation system if a person had a child that person was entitled to claim him as a tax deduction. The Government eliminated that system. Nobody can claim his children as a tax deduction now because he gets a family allowance payment for them. The Government indexed taxation but did not index family allowances. The position is this: People with two children are today missing out on $1.95 a week; three children, $3.33 a week; four children, $4.71 a week; and five children, $6.32 a week. That is how the Government gyps people who have large families. That is the way the Government puts it over them and the way the Treasurer has misled them. 
The Treasurer and the Prime Minister have been saying in this House that the Government did not increase taxation on beer and tobacco. It did not, but it increased the tax on petrol. Petrol will cost the average worker in this community dearly. The Government will benefit as a result of the increase of 11c a gallon in the price of petrol. It will return to the Government a revenue of $ 180m a year. No wonder it did not increase the tax on beer and tobacco. It is getting enough out of petrol. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member for Newcastle must not interject in that way. I ask him to keep his peace. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709213_53_0.jpg"></graphic>

The issues of major concern to the Local Government Authorities are: 
the effects of inflation on their road functions and their inability to combat this problem as it occurs because they derive funds from their own taxing source only annually. 
insufficient recognition that they are directly part of the road industry and are responsible for the greatest length of the road systems; and, 
given the magnitude of their road responsibilities and the many other calls on their own revenue, the inadequacy of financial assistance that they receive from the other levels of Government. 
The increase in cost of road construction has been more rapid that that of inflation . . . 
The position of local government is further heightened if we consider that municipalities have direct responsibility for 83.5 per cent of the nation's 822,000 kilometres of roads. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations submits in its road policy for 1977 that the Commonwealth's share of funding has fallen from 2.9 per cent of all outlays in 1969-70 to 2.3 per cent in 1975-76. On the other hand, the States' share has fallen from 5.3 per cent in 1969-70 to 3.7 per cent in 1974-75. Despite the restraints on public spending and our desire to control inflation, the Government has increased Commonwealth spending on roads by $38.3m in comparison with its allocation last year. Honourable members will recall the terms of the Budget with regard to payments to the States. The Treasurer said, in Budget Paper No. 1: 
In line with the offer made by the Prime Minister at the Premiers' Conference in July, provision has been made for the States to receive $4,336. lm under the tax sharing arrangements in respect of 1 977-78. 
I note that this is over $90m more than the estimate of what the States would have been entitled to under the tax sharing legislation. 
Despite the increase in the funds made available to the State governments and despite the fact that the Victorian Government completed the last financial year with a surplus, it has refused to take note of the urgent need for funds in those categories of roads for which local government is responsible. The Victorian Minister has chosen to explain the position of the State Government in the following terms: ... in order to ensure a responsible approach to Victoria's road requirements overall by preserving a balance in road funding and to maintain the road assets already in place, the State Government has been forced to allocate its own funds so as to redress the obvious inequalities of the Commonwealth funding. 
Unfortunately, that statement is rather typical of the State Government's spokesman whose appetite for Federal funds can never be satiated. One must ask the question on behalf of the 81 1 incorporated local government authorities whether all governments take an objective view on the subject of road funding. Roads falling within certain categories are generally the responsibility of one or other of the three spheres of government. There are some overlaps. For example, national roads are the responsibility of the Commonwealth and local and rural arterial roads are in general terms the responsibility of local government authority. Roads form one part of the total resources of our community. In the total area, Commonwealth, State and local governments have shared duties and responsibilities. Might it not be prudent therefore to define clearly the areas of responsibility for particular road categories and for the Commonwealth to make whatever arrangements are necessary to ensure that local government, for example, receives the funds allocated to it in the proportions determined by the Commonwealth. That does not represent a breakdown in federalism; it is a recognition that local government is the third tier of government in Australia with a hefty responsibility for road maintenance and construction. 
The fiscal entitlements of local government should be assured rather than be subjected to the whims of its two government partners. It is not beyond the wit of government to compute the means by which local government receives a percentage of the gross national receipts for distribution in road categories, pursuant to the expert analyses of the respective States Grants Commissions. The Commonwealth Government need not and, indeed, should not be involved in inquiring into detailed priorities or programs of works to be undertaken by local councils. Detailed work and planning must be left in the hands of local government and road board authorities in each State. 
This Bill provides for the establishment of planning committees. The Federal Minister will consult State Ministers on that initiative. It will be up to the States to implement the terms of the Bill. The planning committees may be established as an alternative to the present system of program approval. If that is done, local government must be represented on those committees and receive an entitlement to membership proportional to its area of responsibility. I commend the terms of this Bill to the House but in conclusion I register my concern that the position of local government in the total road funding structure be guaranteed. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Is leave granted? 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-Order&gt; The honourable member's dme has expired. 
-Firstly, I also draw attention to the fact that  Mr Speaker  is with us. May he long continue to resist any interference or influence from the Executive. He is our man as the  Speaker  of this chamber. He will know that he has the full support of honourable members from both sides of the chamber if he ever feels that he needs it. 
I take up the issue where the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  left off. To my disappointment I notice in the community today an increasing disillusionment with Parliament and its politicians. This attitude I think is fed by the mass media which reports primarily on disputations and confrontations because its job is to sell newspapers or to increase ratings. I believe that the community should know, on the other hand, of the many instances when members and senators work together on specific matters in the total interests of the nation, a matter already referred to by the honourable member for Darling. The mutual respect that has developed between members on both sides of the House has, I think, surprised several of them and enhanced the institution of Parliament. 
Since 1964 when I entered this House there has been a substantial growth in bipartisan activity and in the degree of expertise and concentration on certain areas developed by members of the House of Representatives and senators of all parties. Inter-party co-operation in committee work has not detracted from the proper role of  Her  Majesty's Opposition to probe government legislation and statements. However, publicity of apparent and sometimes real disagreement on matters of policy or practice conceals the common desire by most, if not all, honourable members to serve the nation and the people who elect them to parliament. To illustrate what I have been saying, when I joined the Parliament in 1964 there were six senate committees, five House of Representatives committees and five joint committees, a total of only 16 bipartisan committees. All but two of them dealt with domestic matters to do with the Parliament. These committees required a total of 139 members drawn from a Parliament of 182 members. 
Today we have 37 all-party committees requiring 297 members, elected strangely enough from a total of 191 senators and members. Leaving out Ministers of which there are twenty-six at present, on average each member of the House of Representatives and senator serves on more than two such committees. This ensures a considerable cross-fertilisation of party ideas when framing committee reports to Parliament. I took out some figures earlier this year for the Government Parties Rural Committee of which I am  Chairman.  Each committee member had, on average, commitments to over four committee tasks. I think honourable members will know that leaving out such people as whips,  deputy  whips,  deputy  chairmen of committees,  deputy  speakers and so on, there is a fair work load on the rest of the back bench. I am sure that the Opposition has the same if not a heavier work load to cover a similar range of activities with substantially smaller numbers available to do the work. 
The work load is compounded by an increasing number of electors which each senator and member is required to represent. Excluding the special cases of representation in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the number of electors per member is greater now than it was before the expansion of both Houses, agreed to by Parliament in 1948 and implemented in the 1949 elections. I shall repeat that: The number of electors represented by members of parliament now is quite a deal greater than it was prior to the last reform introduced in relation to representation in the Parliament. 
The honourable member for North Sydney has said that the population has doubled. Of course it is that growth which is responsible for the present situation. A strong case now exists therefore for a larger number of members and senators. Bearing in mind that the Australian people voted at a referendum to maintain the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives, an increase of four senators, for instance, phased in over two elections, would increase the number of senators to eighty-four, as has been mentioned before, and members of the House of Representatives by approximately forty-five. This may seem a large increase but if that were done the number of electors represented by members of parliament would still be greater than was the case after the 1948 change. 
That was over one-quarter of a century ago in a much simpler world than confronts the Parliament now. It would probably be more practical, bearing in mind accommodation problems in Canberra and the considerable changes that a large redistribution would entail, to increase die number of senators by two at each subsequent Senate election whether it be a half-Senate election or a full Senate election. This would mean a corresponding increase in the size of the House of Representatives of about 22, building up later by 23. So, growth by new seats can be achieved within the nexus that has been set down. I can imagine that some people would react by saying that Parliament costs enough already. It might be worth noting the outlay per head of population per annum on Commonwealth parliamentary government, at constant prices, using 191 1-12 as the base year. I have a table showing those figures which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)-I  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 1911-12- 10c. 1 948-49- 1 5 .3c This was before the 1 949 expansion in size of the Parliament 1 950-5 1 - 1 3.6c After the 1 949 expansion the cost was less. 
1975-76-40.7C. 
Few people want big government. Certainly honourable members on this side of the House do not want it. But, if the 1949 experience is any guide, we will achieve better representation for the people at very little extra cost. I have two further charts which I have shown to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  and I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197710042_28_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197710042_28_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197710042_28_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197710042_28_2.jpg"></graphic>

Those charts clearly show the statistics of the increase in bipartisan committees of this Parliament. The people of Australia should not think that we spend all our time here cat-calling at each other and disagreeing on every principle. The charts point out very clearly the huge increase in the number of bipartisan committees of all types on which members meet and through which they find an increasing respect for each other. The statistics lead to the conclusion that almost all members of Parliament spend a great deal of time not only representing their electors in this place but also representing and working very fully in the interests of the nation as a whole. 
-Order! I am having a hard job lining up what the honourable member says, although it is most interesting, with the customs and excise tariff Bills. I wonder whether he would like to tie in his remarks with the subject matter of this debate. 
There has been a continuing inability to export coal from north Queensland because of a seamen's strike which has been applied with respect to coal exports. That strike has relied upon two principles- the 40:40:20 principle, which has been misapplied, and a principle that has been applied in respect of Spanish seamen. What I was pointing out was that if the coal exports are to have any validity and any meaning whatsoever the industrial relations which are the necessary lubricant for those exports to be consummated have to be part of the consideration. I mention those matters in passing. 
-Order! They might need lubricating, but the Chair does not. I suggest that the honourable member tie in his remarks more exactly to the Bills, which are not trade Bills but customs and tariffs Bills. 
Unless in the matter of taxation there are precise definitions people are afraid of whatever whim comes before them. Is the super-profits tax to be levied in place of the coal export levy? Is it to be determined on the rate of return on capital development, or is it to be determined instead merely on the rate of total profits? That would be the difference between Utah and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Is it a tax to be incurred as a proportion of the profits on turnover of a company, or is it a tax to be imposed when a $2 company happens to earn a $10,000 profit in a year? That has never been made clear. Unless there is some precision in terms of taxation, people do not know where they are going and as great a mistake will be made as was made when this tax was first imposed several years ago. Prices fluctuate and those determinants according to which profitability is applied in a company also fluctuate. 
I take your advice with respect to the Bill before the House,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and shall apply the few minutes left to me precisely to the coal industry. One of the companies which is now in the process of developing a mine in Australia is the BHP company. It will be developing a mine at Gregory, the coal from which, if my understanding of the quality of the product there is correct, will be subject to the coal export levy at the highest rate. When the BHP company develops that mine in Queensland I am concerned that it is developed not as a branch office operation but as a separate profit centre. When one lives in some of the outlying areas of the country one often finds a branch office mentality applied to that area. I hope that BHP in developing the Gregory mine will have regard to the unemployment that exists in Queensland in respect of engineers and will employ the maximum number of consulting, civil and other engineers from that State to work out what is to be done at the mine and the works. I hope that BHP will employ as its negotiators for coal exports people centred in that State and not merely people centred in Sydney or Melbourne where its principal operations lie. I hope also that its exports will be negotiated from that State. In other words, I hope that there will be maximum domestic ripple economic effects in that State from those operations within that State. 
As you are about to request,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I bring myself back to the Bills. The Bills are designed to reduce a tax which was foolish and wrong. It was misconceived in time and in terms of its effects. The very fluctuations of commodity products mitigate and argue against this kind of tax. I leave honourable members with this last thought: Those who say 'We will impose another tax- a super-profits tax- in place of this' have the responsibility to indicate the ingredients of that super-tax which is to be imposed in its place. So far the ingredients of that super-tax have not been made known; they have been completely ignored. For example, were this to have been done with respect to iron ore, it would have been foolish. It has been foolish with respect to coal. With respect to sugar, it would have been just one step short of insanity. I suggest that this House should support, as it will, the assertion that taxes of that lond offend against every decent principle of taxation and certainly should not be applied to an export industry in a country which is having continuing and great difficulties in getting adequate exports to bring its current account into correct focus and correct balance. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry and refer to the extremely serious drought affecting farmers throughout most of South Australia. Can the Minister inform the House whether he has any estimates of the effect on crops and on the income of producers in that State? Can the Minister inform the House the amounts the South Australian Government has spent and committed? Can he also tell us what support the Commonwealth Government intends to offer? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I appreciate the way in which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has approached this problem. I shall refer to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  in just one moment. Before I do so I point out, because I think it is important, that when the confrontation occurred across the table I was in the Chair. Although I heard conversation going on, I did not pick up any part at all of the statements which were made. Honourable members have my absolute assurance on that point. I suppose that that points to the difficulty the Chair has when a fanamount of conversation is going on, particularly when, as in this case,  Hansard  picks up the remarks. I would have thought it very much to the betterment of the parliamentary institution if both honourable members were to agree that the two statements be removed from the official  Hansard  record, other than the daily  Hansard.  It is not for the Chair to rule in that way at this stage, but that is what I would wish to be done. Having heard the explanation given by the honourable member for Oxley, but having in mind that I did not hear that remark made yesterday afternoon by the honourable member for Denison, I require the honourable member for Denison to withdraw that remark. 
-Order! The honourable member for Gellibrand will resume his seat. 
-I will do so. 
I intend tonight to talk mainly on the estimates for the Department of Veterans' Affairs. Initially I congratulate the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  on the particularly good speech he made on this subject prior to the suspension of the sitting. I support much of the substance of his speech. I think it is proper that we should congratulate the Department of Veterans' Affairs on having digestible up-to-date information readily available to the Committee for consideration of its estimates. I refer particularly to the Repatriation Commission for having produced so promptly its useful annual report for 1976-77-1 stress the year- and making it available for honourable members to consult and to form their views. I think that other departments and commissions could well take note of its promptness. 
I deal firstly with the subject of repatriation. I think it is important that we all recognise the task faced by the Department and the Repatriation Commission. To give some idea of that task, I point out that there are almost half a million recipients of the disability pension and about 164,000 recipients of the service pension. The meaning of the term 'disability pension' is I believe self evident. Perhaps I should explain that a service pension is not to be confused with a Defence Force Retirement Benefit Fund pension for regular servicemen at the end of their service; it is some recompense for people who have suffered some of the rigours of war. 
There are some important points which I wish to emphasise. Repatriation pensions are for veterans and their dependants and for dependants of deceased veterans. We should remember that these veterans still include a few from the South African War, dating back to the turn of the century; a significant but declining number from the 1914-18 War, 60 years ago; the bulk from the 1939-45 War, 30 years ago; and a number from operations of our armed Services since then. I think the Committee should realise that the problem is not only a big one but also one which will be a continuing social problem for some years to come. The Government, with the active co-operation of the Returned Services League and other ex-service organisations, has made many significant improvements to pension eligibility and payments since it came to office less than two years ago. I think it is important that the Committee recognise, as we are looking at the estimates for this year, some of the important reforms that this Government has made. 
First of all, I refer to the transfer of the functions of the Repatriation Appeals Tribunal to the newly established Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The new Tribunal will retain informality of approach towards repatriation appeal hearings while ensuring consistency of interpretation and application of the law. Ex-service organisations will still be represented and retained on the panels dealing with repatriation matters. In accordance with the Toose report, the right of legal representation has been looked at by the Government. The Government has accepted exservice organisations' views that this would reduce the informality that I have mentioned, and increased costs would be a factor. Such representation is to be limited to hearings chaired by a presidential member of the Tribunal, and then is to be only with his consent. 
There are instances in which I believe this facility of legal representation should be applied for by applicants and that the applications should be looked at leniently by the  President  of the Tribunal. I make that remark in passing because honourable members who have looked at this matter over a period of years would know that some of the issues are extremely complex. I believe that it is an unfair onus on individual applicants who may not have a very good quasilegal brain with which to handle their case to have those sorts of restraints imposed.  (Quorum formed).  The matter to which I was referring was that this Government, with the active cooperation of the RSL, has made many significant improvements to pension eligibility and payments since it came to office less than two years ago. 
The second point that I wish to make relates to the contentious onus of proof section, section 47. The Government has simplified and clarified this. In essence, pension determining authorities do not emphasise formality or technicalities in their hearings. Further, recognition is given to the difficulty of producing records of or witnesses to an event which occurred in the heat of battle maybe, frequently, many years before. In general terms, the benefit of the doubt is given to the applicant. The structure of the repatriation boards hearing claims and appeals is more flexible and permits board chairmen and members to operate in more than one State, which achieves greater uniformity of decision. As part of the continuing consideration of the report on repatriation by  Mr Justice  Toose, I believe that it is necessary to consider the introduction of new legislation to review the appeals system at present in use. For an indication of other areas which may require government attention in future, I refer honourable members to recommendations in the Toose report and to page 1 8 of the RSL's sixty-first annual report, the report for 1976. 
I refer now to defence service homes. Again for details I refer the Committee to the RSL's 1976 report, at page 25, and to the statements of the previous Minister,  Senator Durack,  on 5 September this year. Naturally, more funds would help, but I think all ex-servicemen, above all other people, accept the need for budgetary restraints in view of the in-built problems produced some years back by the Whitlam Government. It will take time for the lag to find its way through the economy and for the economy to become functional and vital again. Nevertheless, there are three parts of that policy statement which I hope the new Minister for Veterans Affairs  (Mr Garland)  will review- not in the sense of being a new broom but to see whether better use can be made of funds available, taking into account the RSL's views and the views of currently serving members of the armed forces. The new Minister is in a very fortunate situation as a result of his previous chairmanship of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710121_42_3.jpg"></graphic>

-Order! The honourable member has made his point. The Chair has to take the view that honourable members are entitled to their own opinions, erratic or otherwise. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the seven measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! If the honourable member said that the Prime Minister is deceitful, I think that is probably going a little too far and I ask him to withdraw. 
The Government's halo in the area it calls 'family reform' is beginning to show distinct signs of tarnish. 
This Budget is the first of the last three in which the income position of families (as families) has taken a step back, rattier than a step forward. 
The first big improvement for people with dependent families came in  Mr Hayden  's tax reforms of 1 975. 
It is not widely acknowledged, but one of the most important reforming aspects of the Hayden changes was to redistribute the tax burden away from the taxpayers with dependants . . . 
He goes on to say: 
This was done by raising the basic tax rates but, at the same time, converting the old dependant reductions into much more generous dependant rebates. 
The justification for this change was that a bachelor earning, say, $ 1 70 a week has a much greater capacity to bear the tax burden than does a man supporting a wife and children on the same amount. 
Last year the Fraser Government made a rather more radical change to family incomes which it hailed, with typical modesty, as 'one of this country's most significant social reforms.' 
It abolished child rebates and instead significantly increased the rates of child endowment payments, which it renamed 'family allowances.' 
The switch left the income of most families pretty much unchanged, but its significance was that it provided greatly increased assistance to about 300,000 families with very low incomes. 

 Mr Gittins said that  Mr Fraser's  reform drew wide acclaim for that particular reason and also because it looked good in the beginning. He continued: 
Its beauty, from the Government's point of view was that it was able to help so many people at very little cost to the revenue. 
This was because the change was introduced at the same time as ' full ' tax indexation. 
Converting the child rebates into higher child endowment payments meant that the Government avoided the expense of indexing those particular rebates. 
Thus, in a full year, the net cost of the higher child endowment payments was no more than the cost of indexing the child rebates would have been. 
But the rub for taxpayers with families- 
And this is the important thing- has come this year-not by what the Government did, but by what it didn't do. 
It didn't increase family allowances to allow for the effects ofinflation. 
It is on this basis that the Opposition is arguing that 'the vast majority of taxpaying families' would have been better off had the Government maintained the child rebates and indexed them in 1976 and 1977 in the same way that the other rebates were indexed. 
Put another way, the Government's most significant social reform of 1 976 is saving it a lot of money one year later. 
To illustrate just exactly what happens as far as the Government is concerned and as far as the disadvantage for families with children is concerned, I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I have prepared. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

The Treasurer, in introducing the Bills we are debating tonight, emphasised how many people will now be exempted from taxation and how much people will be better off with the indexation of the phasing-in point. A person with a dependent spouse and, say, three dependent school children, who has a taxable income of $5,943 a year, will now be paying just under $150 tax a year, or about $3 a week on a weekly taxable income of $115 or $120 a week. Under the socalled Hayden Budget of two years ago, before indexation was introduced, that person would not have paid any tax. There was a tax exemption on incomes up to $5,943 for a person with a dependent spouse and three dependent school children. At present that person has to pay the Medibank levy applicable to incomes over $5,087, amounting to 2.5 per cent of about $900, plus tax on income above $5,484. Such a person is much worse off than he was previously. 
I would like to deal very quickly with the health insurance levy. I note that the Treasurer in his second reading speech has stated: 
The rate of levy remains at 2.5 per cent of taxable income, subject to unchanged ceiling amounts of $300 for taxpayers with dependants and $ 150 for those without dependants. 
The Treasurer went on to say: 
One change, dealt with in this Bill as well as in an earlier Bill, will exempt from the levy the income of a deceased estate to which no beneficiary in the estate has a present entitlement. 
It was obviously a peculiar thing to have happened in any case and was fairly typical of the rushed wayin which the Government introduced the previous legislation, that a deceased's estate still had to pay the Medibank levy for the person who was already deceased. It was unlikely that the person who was deceased would get any further medical - 

<graphic href="107131197711016_69_0.jpg"></graphic>

I conclude by paying tribute to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who spoke in this House tonight, certainly for the last time on income tax legislation and possibly for the last time. I have been associated with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports since I entered this Parliament eight years ago and have served with him on committees. I have found him to be by far the most rational of all economic spokesmen on all sides of this House. To my mind he has the greatest ability to explain rationally the issues in a problem, whether we are dealing with taxation or another economic matter. Maybe the people on this side of the House did not take enought notice of him. It is obvious that those on the other side did not take enough notice of him. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable, member has made his point. Would he like to debate the motion to set up the facility in Rockhampton? 
-I wish briefly to associate myself with the condolence motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other honourable members. I knew only two of the deceased gentlemen. Possible the first person I met in this House was Ian Pettitt. I thought very highly of him as a decent and hardworking person. The reason I have risen to speak today is to thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for allowing me to attend as your representative the funeral of former  Senator Mattner.  I was honoured to do so because I had a very long association with former  Senator Mattner  and I wish to comment briefly on his sad death. 
He was an extremely popular man throughout the Adelaide Hills and particularly in the Barossa Valley. People in the Barossa Valley were very proud of  Senator Manner's  war record and achievements. If we look at his string of awards, primarily from World War I, we will note that he had a lowly start.  His  first medal was the Military Medal. He rose through the ranks to become a highly decorated soldier and a great officer. He worked very closely with my father on manpower problems towards the end of World War II. I always regarded him as a man of tremendous humanity and terriffic popularity in the electorate. In my experience members of Parliament have different attributes.  Senator Manner's  attributes were his great humour, his tremendous popularity because of his inimitable sense of humour and his deep and abiding patriotism and love for his nation. I know his children and many of his relatives and I appreciate the opportunity to express my regret at his death and to support the motion before the House. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that canning fruit growers are not being paid back-funds owed to them in the aftermath of the Federal Government's action in deferring loan repayments on the part of the States? Does he take the view that State governments control such institutions as State banks and could well give an instruction for the benefit of those canning fruit growers? 
-The point of order is not applicable. 
Let us look at what happened to health costs under a Labor government. In the two years 1974-75 and 1975-76 while the Labor Government was in office health costs exploded and increased by 73 per cent which is an extraordinary leap in those costs. While the Labor Government was in office doctors' fees increased by 58.9 per cent which was a record increase. So let us have not illusions about on whom the blame should rest for the great explosion in health costs. I cannot find any argument that would really absolve the Labor Government from the serious problem that confronts this country today in trying to keep health costs within manageable control. 
Regardless of any favourable light that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  may wish to throw on health costs, the undoubted truth is that the explosion in those costs occurred during Labor's three years in office. No amount of figure juggling by the honourable member can absolve the Labor Government from blame for the worst inflation in health costs that this country has ever known. In the year before Medibank became operative health costs increased by 36.6 per cent which was an incredible increase in one year. Of course the honourable member for Prospect has touched on the reasons for that increase- equal pay, huge increases in wages and salaries and a very large increase of 3 1 .9 per cent in doctors ' fees. 
Let me quote some figures which have only recently become available to me and which prove clearly my contention. A preliminary estimate for 1976-77 which is currently being checked and rechecked shows that national expenditure on health in that year was $6,254m which compares with $5,224m in 1975-76 and $4,109m in 1 974- 75. Of course these figures illustrate graphically a continuing growth in expenditure, but the significant factor is the marked slowing in the rate of increase. The growth in 1976-77 over the previous year was 19.7 per cent compared with a 27.1 per cent increase in 1975-76 over the figure in 1974-75- a far cry from the 36.6 per cent increase in costs from 1973-74 to 1974-75. A comparison of the proportion of gross domestic product represented by the total health expenditure over the last four years further illustrates the point. In 1973-74 the percentage of gross domestic product spent on health in this country was 5.92 per cent; in 1974-75 it was 6.83 per cent; in 1975- 76 it was 7.38 per cent; and in 1976-77 it was 7.67 per cent. 
Let me translate those figures into a more graphic illustration. The proportion of gross domestic product spent on health in 1974-75 increased by 15.4 per cent over the figure for the previous year. In 1975-76 the increase was 8.1 per cent while last year the increase dropped dramatically to 3.9 per cent. We are now debating a matter of public importance concerning the Government's failure to deal with the rising costs of health care. What utter rubbish! The great explosion in health costs took place while the Labor Government was in charge of this country. The Fraser Government has taken measures that have decelerated the rate of growth in health costs. The biggest single increase in those costs occurred in 1974-75 and the next biggest in 1975-76 when the original Medibank was introduced. The significant slowing in the increase in 1976-77 was a direct result of this Government's modifications to the health insurance system and other measures taken in association with it to try to control costs in this area. 
I shall point to other significant figures. There has been a slowing not only in the rate of expenditure overall but also in the proportion provided by public funds. The Commonwealth Government's contribution- therefore the taxpayers' contribution- in 1975-76 was 52 per cent of the total contribution. In the last financial year that proportion was reduced to 44 per cent while funds provided by private sources rose from 22.6 per cent in 1 975-76 to 3 1 . 6 per cent last year. The proportion provided by State and local governments remained relatively constant. Therefore it is obvious that the Government's policies are working, but I do not say this in any complacent or self-satisfied way because no one is more aware than I that more can and must be done to curb the continuing overall increase in costs of health care. 
Let me briefly recount some of the major innovations this Government has already introduced with some success. We undertook a basic restructuring of Medibank which not only continued to provide a system of universal health care coverage but also gave all Australians a choice of insurance, a choice wholeheartedly approved by the electorate last December. Since then we have legislated to curb abuses of the system by both doctors and patients through the excessive or unnecessary use of services, particularly pathology services. We have ended the open-ended nature of the Commonwealth financial commitment to the States under the original hospital cost sharing arrangement. What an open-ended arrangement that was. We have restored the competitive position of private hospitals by ensuring that public hospital charges were raised to more realistic levels. 
We have ensured that benefits are no longer paid to relieve governments, public authorities and employers of costs that would have been borne by them but for Medibank. We have legislated so that insurers accept their responsibility in workers compensation and third party insurance cases, saving the Australian taxpayers $30m. We have introduced major improvements to the nursing home benefits scheme to give financial security to all patients and we are sharing the financial load with the private health insurance funds. These and other innovations have been conceived and introduced within the framework of the Government's broad objectives in health care, namely, to develop the most effective and efficient system of delivery and to ensure that every Australian has access- we completely agree with this approach- to high quality care while at the same time ensuring that the nation is receiving the best value in the allocation of its resources. 
Let me emphasise again that the Government's policies are working, but there is no resting on our laurels. We are continuing to seek refinements of the system. At present I am awaiting a comprehensive review of a wide range of matters which I am sure will point the way to further cost containment. One matter to which we are turning our attention is the utilisation of medical services. There have been suggestions of a massive rise in utilisation in recent times. Information which is available to me and which is based on the number of claims paid in each year indicates that on a national scale there was a substantial increase in medical services per person covered during 1975-76 but that the rate stabilised during 1976-77. I am sure that the Leader of the Opposition will be interested to hear the figures. In 1974-75 there were 5.4 services per person covered; in 1975-76, 5.9 services per person covered; and in 1976-77, 5.8 services per person covered. These figures point to the success of the Medibank modifications in curtailing increases in utilisation. 
Other Government initiatives that are having a significant effect in constraining galloping costs include our wages and salaries policy, which is playing a big part in curbing the growth of unit costs of services in hospitals, and our policy on medical fees increases, which have been kept below the average inflation rate. I appeal to the doctors of Australia and to the medical profession at large to offer to the Australian people an eager hand in trying to help solve one of the very serious problems that confront the nation and the people, and that is the rising cost of services that they tender. I am sure that the medical profession will co-operate with any reasonable scheme that we offer to try to keep costs within reason. 
It is important not to lose sight of factors other than Medibank which have had a bearing on health care growth not only in Australia but in all industrialised nations. The costs of manpower have increased enormously in the 1 970s. Changing patterns of disease have increased the incidence of chronic and degenerative illness in an aging population, bringing higher costs of care in their train. At the same time advances in science and technology have added to the range, intensity and sophistication of health services generally. People have come to expect more from health services and to demand higher standards of comfort and amenity. It is the realisation of the high costs of modern technology that has prompted the Government to inquire into this area. The major dilemma facing this Government and every other government throughout the Western world is how to strike a balance between the needs and expectations of the population and the need to contain expenditure at a manageable level. This Government will attempt to do so and will maintain its constant efforts to ensure that the dollars are spent wisely in the health care area. 
-Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-Before I call the honourable member for Melbourne Ports I remind the House that although he has immense experience in another place, nevertheless this is his maiden speech in this House. I ask the House to afford him its usual courtesies. 
-The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  made one very true remark, and that is that we do not have water running out of our ears. He said that we should put our oar in. I am not sure what is up which at this stage, except the honourable member. He talked about private enterprise and about sub-contractors working on water conservation projects. Of course that is precisely what the Government wants. He seemed to have some quaint idea that this sort of process did not have a beneficial effect on the economy or that employment opportunities did not rub off. What can we do about it if the honourable member cannot understand that? 
Government supporters are very happy about the introduction of this Bill. It has a certain amount of historic significance which we ought to remember. I believe that it was David Fairbairn who, when Minister for National Development, first proposed a national water fund for Australia. For a four or five-year period- I do not know the precise time- there was $200m in that fund. Some great projects were started out of that fund. I am not decrying the Australian Labor Party's action in setting up the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. Out of that fund some great projects were built for this nation. I think of the Ord River scheme. I question whether it was a proper use of loan or taxpayers funds. Later I will raise that question in relation to another matter. I think also of the Dartmouth Dam. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  properly mentioned the importance of these sorts of funds to South Australia and to the capital city of that 
State, Adelaide. That importance is unquestioned. I will touch on it later. Thanks to the Premier of that State at the time,  Mr Steele  Hall, that funding was responsible for giving South Australia a 37 per cent increase in usable water. 
Before we speak too much glib nonsense, as did my colleague the honourable member for Grey, about the lack of care by the Liberal Party for the State of South Australia, we ought to take into account one or two of those facts. The water resource fund was established by the Minister for National Development, David Fairbairn in his time and was not repeated by the Whitlam Government at any stage. An announcement was made recently that $200m would be provided for another national water resources program within which this particular Bill provides for the first of the agreements with the States. If we are talking about agreements with the States, let us take on board something which many members who have spoken in this debate have not realised- or, if they do, they will not admit it. I refer to the Press release of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on this matter, which stated: 
The Prime Minister has written to State Premiers inviting them to nominate projects for consideration under the five year national water resources program. 
It is anticipated that the Commonwealth will begin considering proposals from the States before the presentation of the next Budget so that the program can commence in 1978-79. 
Therefore, it is not for us to say whether a variety of water establishments will be established in the Dandenongs. It is not for us to say whether the Commonwealth should substantiate a water scheme in Virginia in the electorate of my new colleague, the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  It is up to the States to draw up their own priorities. If some States are so dopey and so lacking in foresight as to squander all their funds on, shall we say, a second Ord River, that is their funeral. I couple with my remarks the entire filtration plan for the city of Adelaide. If ever there was an over costly project, which was precisely and entirely a relic of the Whitlam Government era, it is this. All members were no doubt very impressed to see the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  hold up a glass of cloudy water some time ago during Question Time in this House but what members of this House did not realise is that it was the flusher of fresh water not coming down the Murray but down the Darling. On any analysis that was the most pure water South Australia has had for some time. Members might think that illogical. It looked cloudy but in fact it was very good water. It lathered well; it tasted good; and it was healthy water. This shows how silly some people sometimes get. 
What has the South Australian Government done? The honourable member for Burke suggested that we keep an eye on  Mr BjelkePetersen,  the Premier of Queensland. I must say that from time to time I do so. But, to be completely fair, let us also keep an eye on  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, because he has put all his funds so far into a nonproductive scheme, when areas like the electorate of Grey and my new electorate of Wakefield, and the bottom of Yorke Peninsula are crying out for water schemes, where bores and basins are unreliable and where market growers in the area of Virginia in the electorate of Bonython are receiving no priority treatment at all. I maintain that those schemes are productive and would provide substantially further wealth for those States. 
If the filtration scheme is to go through for the expenditure so far of approximately $ 150m- the exact figure escapes me- it will still only have merely touched the problem of the filtration of the Adelaide water supply; yet all the available funds spent recently in that State have gone for that purpose. Money does not grow on trees; even loan funds do not grow on trees. I think this Government is to be congratulated for putting forward this five-year scheme. I look forward to the Premiers of all States applying their schemes constitutionally and properly in a responsible fashion so that this nation can be made greater but not necessarily so that the entire population of Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide is given lollipop treatment through filtration of a water scheme. This must and should be a slow project and governments should not look for the entire sum at the taxpayers' expense in a matter of two or three years. 
There are other aspects to this matter that I wish to mention. By and large, I suppose, it gets back to the argument that has been condemned on one side of the Parliament today and supported by the other; and that is the matter of federalism. Schemes surrounding outer suburbs of capital cities of a comparatively small nature should, of course, be financed and built by State authorities. I imagine that what the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has in mind and what the Government has in mind are matters of major importance that will come before this Government on application by State Premiers or State Ministers. It is in this area where I think the Government must be careful. 
I was always highly suspicious of the Ord River Scheme and, being wise in hindsight, what a white elephant we now have on our plate. I say with deep respect to my colleagues from Western Australia: I do not believe that project was ever studied properly. I do not believe its cost effectiveness was ever established. Whatever we do, whether in the way of filtration plants, future Ord River schemes or a national monument of some sort- there is of course, an element of that in the Snowy Mountains scheme- let us make quite sure it is a proper use of funds and that the scheme is studied properly. 
When I look back over the years at what I have said about and noted concerning water schemes that have been undertaken, if there is one thing I am pleased about it is the fact that computers came along in time to save South Australia from building the Chowilla Dam. It would have been a disaster. In a matter of three weeks, the Department and the Minister were able to discover what previously took four and a half years to work out. All sorts of variables were put into a computer and, through that mechanism which I, of course, do not fully understand, they were able at long last to come to a rational decision and to show people what would happen if water that was delivered from the Murray, very frequently high in saline content, had filled the Chowilla Dam which was a broad, shallow, enormous project. As a result of the evaporation from that dam and the consequent salinity in the dam, taking into account times when there was a draw on that dam for irrigation purposes and for water to allow my friend the honourable member for Grey and others to drink, imbibe and wash themselves, the quality of water would have been so bad in some areas that thank goodness techniques and technology had to come to our rescue and saved us from that disaster. 
My plea to the Minister for National Development, who was responsible for this fine piece of legislation, is that we make quite sure that we undertake worthwhile, cost effective projects that will help build the national wealth and that have some logical expression behind them. I make no bones about the fact that at my age ecological and conservation matters take a lot of getting used to. The beauty of hills, it seems to me, is so often upset by works to provide for the supply of power or water or roads by governments. I would be hesitant to provide funds for that sort of purpose. But I would have no hesitation in providing funds for all sorts of outer suburban utilities if the need was established in the proper fashion. Before doing that, however, one would want to have a look at the past record of some 
State governments as against others. For instance, it would be quite wrong in my view all of a sudden to produce another national sewerage scheme or water scheme for every capital city in Australia and leave State Governments that have made proper provision for these faculties over the years in a penalised situation. I should just like to emphasise two points. The Dartmouth Dam, the Keith-Tailem Bend water scheme and many schemes in South Australia owe their origins to this sort of water resources program. They are not forgotten by the people of my State. I hope that the Government, in conjunction with the Premiers, does the proper thing and produces some programs of worth that all of us can see and be proud of, as will be the rest of the nation. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This Government, as a free enterprise government, faces real problems in the area of its tariff policies. Its current policies must make everyone ponder about its ultimate and long-term philosophy. It is undoubtedly a truism that the free enterprise system can be an efficient system only if the Government does everything possible to encourage the enterprise of its citizens. A previous honourable member for Wakefield whose name has been mentioned in the debate tonight, Bert Kelly, has likened the industries of a free enterprise system to a bucket of worms. I will repeat his illustration, which is: In that bucket, virile young worms are trying to fight their way to the top; old fat worms wallow about screaming for help and protection in order to try to maintain their position. This Government, to its ultimate peril, may choose to ignore this fact of life. But I do not believe it will. 
The difficulty every honourable member has in espousing clear personal guidelines is that nearly every issue has different implications and must be judged individually by the Industries Assistance Commission, by the Government and by each and every member of parliament who cares to put time and effort into that study. It is for this reason that the IAC itself must be given free rein to express proper economic reasons in advising government. If people would only realise that on each issue a final decision is and must be taken by the Government. I believe there would be less nonsense spoken and less pressure placed on the IAC. The IAC must retain its expertise, its impartiality and its capacity to judge dispassionately and I will take up that point a little later if I have time. The IAC is probably the only body in Australia today that in fact does that. Unless the IAC continues to function in this way its advice to government will become valueless. 
Perhaps I might give some private advice to commissioners of the IAC. I urge them not to be unduly depressed, alarmed or demoralised by the amendments contained in this legislation. It is of vital importance that they continue and, where possible, improve the quality of their reports. In justice to the Government, this certainly is one of the aims that the Government has in view. The IAC must not withdraw from its responsibility to uncover absurdities. Many members of parliament will have recognised some of the absurdities so uncovered by the expertise of this body. It must not be deterred by those who screech that an IAC report has limited their capital program of expansion or has penalised their plans. It is not for the IAC to worry about that problem. It is for the IAC, as I see it, to give those types of warning signals. 
I will not have time tonight to touch on unused protection, industries that feel they have to go off-shore, currency valuation changes and regional problems of industries in outlying areas. They are all important factors but I note that the Government says in effect that the IAC should consider them. I maintain that the IAC should not. I believe that the Government should consider these factors having regard to its ultimate role of responsibility. I admit that these are important factors. But surely the major problem in looking at the future economic expansion of Australian industries is to encourage a system of private enterprise and to have policies that reward adequately innovation and enterprise. Of course, I believe this is not currently the case. One of the difficulties facing the IAC at present in much of its advice to the Government is to find any recommendation that is acceptable to the Government in the current economic climate. My advice to the IAC is: Do not worry. I believe its time will come and that a greater realisation of the need to adjust to change will emerge in the community. 
What explains the current Government's attitude to tariff and to protection generally? The Opposition would say, and indeed has said, in its hunt for simplicity that we as a Party are involved with big business. That, of course, is patently absurd. The reason is that all manufacturing industries have incurred such a series of losses in recent years that there is no real incentive or confidence for investment to flow. The Fraser Government has yet to undo all the real damage caused by the Whitlam Government in an attempt to downgrade those industries, both big and small, that it regarded, and probably still regards, as its basic enemies. The Labor Party, in its struggle to make Canberra the centre of real power, trampled on all those firms which made up the free enterprise sector. Its wish for a trade union dominated central power base has at this point of time been thwarted. So the current Government has not only the problem of unemployment caused primarily by labour costing itself out of the market but also the problem of low capital investment. Only in the last quarter have we seen sectors such as mining, building and construction excluding housing and others of lesser extent increase their investment capacity. Yet, this activity is vital to the future of the nation. 
Any believer in the free enterprise system must temporarily at least see the need for some protection as a necessity until confidence and thus capital expenditure returns. The public sector is still encroaching on the private sector as figures published in the Press only this week indicate. If we are not all to be employed by the government by the turn of the century public sector expenditure must be limited. I believe the Government is adopting a proper and responsible role in this respect. 
We all need to understand the Government's current attitude on protection. For my own part, I hope the Government will eventually agree with the following suggestions: I would develop a list of industries that the nation must have in a technological age and must, if necessary, be prepared to pay for. Likewise, I would develop a list of industries that we cannot afford to protect endlessly. Those industries must be given an indication, whether by the IAC or by the Government, that they must adjust in the future. Some have clearly been given this warning but seem incapable of absorbing the need to change or adjust. They seem to think that divine providence or the largesse of taxpayers will endlessly continue to fund. Some of these industries have no intention of changing, they have no intention of adjusting; and they have little regard for the export industries whose input costs soar as many of these inputs receive protection, thus ruining the competitive position of much of Australia's exports on world markets. If these industries refuse to acknowledge their own precarious future I regard it as a role of the IAC to warn them. 
I am grateful to the Government Whip for allowing me to speak for a few minutes in this debate. Indeed, I recollect I was gagged in the last three tariff debates in the last Parliament. However, in view of the lateness of the hour, I shall confine my remarks to a danger point that I see in the Bill before the House. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  in his second reading speech, said: 
The Bill also provides for changes in the structure of the TAA itself. The TAA will comprise one full-time member and there is provision for the Minister to appoint associate members for specific inquiries, thus allowing for the appointment of persons having expertise in a particular area as the need arises. 
All I can say is this: I would feel very free to give the Minister my personal advice who I thought should be the associate member if I found that a tariff issue concerning brandy, for instance, was to be considered. Whether the Minister would take my advise is another matter again. I hope that the Minister would receive his advice not from the honourable member for Wakefield but from  Mr McKinnon  himself because only in that way will we get any dispassionate judgments or unbiassed comments on a problem. Frankly, I would much rather see the manager of Luna Park, someone experienced in the problems of banana selling or the steel industry sitting in judgment on the wine industry which is an industry vital to my electorate. I do not believe that a wine industry person should sit in judgment on wine problems or that a dairying person should sit in judgment on that industry in his- how can I describe it- teat pulling capacity. This is the point I am trying to make. I hope that the form of words the Minister used in his second reading speech does not specifically mean that he intends to look for expertise within an industry for the purpose of the giving of advice. I think that as an associate member, such a person would be put in a most invidious position. He would be accused either of being too biased in favour of his industry or not biased enough because he was frightened. 
There are other problems in relation to this matter which do not make me particularly happy, but, I have listened carefully to the debate and to the Minister and I believe that the Government's intentions are honourable in this regard. I conclude by saying that I am in complete support of the IAC as a body, I admire its expertise and I shall resist* any effort to castigate, to neutralise or to emasculate that body in the future as I believe its role is vital to the future economic strength of this nation. 
-Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-Order! I advise the honourable member to address his remarks through the Chair. 
After two years of hard work and substantial achievement, Australians now look to the future with new found confidence. 
I wish that were true. I take no pleasure from the large numbers of people who are unemployed in this community today or from the way that Australia is stagnating as the result of the Fraser Government's economic policies. Look at what its friends in the banking world have to say about the Government, and in particular that statement in the Governor-General's Speech, which I read just a moment ago. Referring to the monthly business indicator survey of the ANZ Banking Group Ltd, the  Australian Financial Review of 28  February stated: 
There is little prospect of sustainable economic recovery in 1978 and a consequential fall in unemployment if the Government continues to follow its present economic policies, according to the February issue of the ANZ Bank Business Indicators survey released yesterday. 
The statement which I quoted, which the Governor-General was forced to make on behalf of this Government, is typical of the half-truths and lies in which this Government has indulged in the years it has been in government from December 1975 right through to the present time. It is typical also of the attitudes of the Government parties in their previous 23 years in office. They told most outrageous political lies then and they are continuing to do so now. 
I shall cite figures indicating the level of unemployment in January of each year from 1975 to 1978. In 1975, when we were in government, 311,596 people were unemployed. At that time the Labor Government did its damnedest to get. people into employment. We introduced the Regional Employment Development scheme. We did all the things that Treasury told us we should do to provide employment for people. But when the Fraser Government came into office it set about creating an additional pool of unemployed. There is no doubt- the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said this time and again- that the Liberal Party is putting forward unemployment as the solution to inflation. We think that this is a cruel policy which will put people out of work, destroy their confidence and destroy their feeling for other people. 
I return to their figures cited earlier. In January 1975 the number of people unemployed was 3 1 1,596. Then the Fraser Government took over and the figure rose to 343,939 in 1976, to 354,589 in 1977 and to a record figure of 445,300 in 1978. That was after the Government had manipulated the figures in 1977 and again in 1978 when it would not allow school leavers to register for the unemployment benefit. In this way the Government was able to push those young people out of the way. These figures are false. It is typical of the Government that the figures are false. As I said earlier, the Government is a corrupt government which is prepared to gerrymander electorates and to manipulate these figures which I have cited. That shows just what sort of a government we have. It is a crook government, a corrupt government and a government which will get up to anything to maintain its position in office. It got into office with the assistance of a crook Governor-General who was prepared to sack a government which still had Supply for seven weeks in order to put Fraser and his crowd into office. It is time that the people of this country woke up to the Government and did something about putting a decent and respectable government into office. 
Next, I express my concern at the way in which this Government has treated my electorate and at the increase in the level of unemployment there in the period it has been in office. In January 1975, when Labor was in office, 9,414 people were unemployed in my electorate. In two years of 'Fraserism' that figure has risen to 15,034. Representations have been made to the Prime Minister to provide employment opportunities in the Newcastle district. But this Government has done nothing to assist. 
The only Government that has displayed any interest in trying to reduce unemployment in the district has been the New South Wales Government. In a very short period after gaining office, it put into operation a new floating dock at a cost of $15m. When the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was asked for financial assistance in that project he refused point blank. He would not be a party to the proposal. The State Government also has endeavoured to do something about the problem of unemployment by providing money for sewerage projects and road works. 
According to the Governor-General's Speech, the Government claims as one of its economic policies: 
Advocacy before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for wage restraint so that inflation can be further reduced and job opportunities expanded. 
Look at the manner in which this Government has expanded job opportunities! Consider the increase in the number of persons unemployed in the short period this Government has been in office. 
I do not want to go back over the figures now. As a result of the policy put by this Government to the Commission, it is estimated that the Government has succeeded in suppressing wages by approximately $10 a week. The fact accepted today by the Commission, the business community and the trade union movement is that the fellow receiving something less than average weekly earnings- roughly a tradesman's rate of pay of $ 1 80 a week, give or take $5 to $ 10 a week above or below that figure- is about $ 10 a week worse off as a result of the policies of this Government. How does that policy on wages restraint stand comparison with its policy on company profits? This Government has threatened to disband the Prices Justification Tribunal. It has put sustained pressure on the Tribunal to allow costs to increase. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistics Group which sets out the profits of a number of leading companies, banks and newspapers in Australia for the years 1974 to 1977 inclusive. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197803090_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

I mention the food distribution field. Thousands of people go through the shop doors every week. G. J. Coles and Coy Ltd, for example, made a profit of $16,889,000 in 1974. It rose to $36,351,000 in 1977. Inflation is occurring through the profits that are being made by these companies and not as a result of the increases that the being granted by the court in wages after costs have risen. I call upon the Government to do something positive in this respect to force companies to curtail their profits. I have no objection to a company making a reasonable profit, but it is obvious from the table that those companies are making huge and unnecessary profits and are raping the community. I have not included in this table the master profit maker, Utah Development Co., which made a profit of $ 136m in 1976 and a profit of$ 158m in 1977. 
The other thing that concerned me about the election campaign was the manner in which the Prime Minister misled the people of this country by saying that people on incomes of about $180 to $ 1 90 a week would receive a $6 a week reduction in taxation. Even the Liberal Party disowned him after a while. That is an example of the untruths, the half truths and the straight out lies that have been told by supporters of this Government over the years. I object also to the Government's use of taxpayers' money to advertise Government policy under the pretext of indicating to people what will be their tax rebate. We see pages of advertising costing the taxpayers thousands of dollars. I strongly object to that. If the Liberal Party wants to advertise its policies it should pay for doing so out of the slush fund, out of the donations made to it by the huge profit makers which are listed in the table I have incorporated. 

<graphic href="108131197803090_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

the people by saying that the man earning about $ 1 90 a week would receive a $6 a week reduction in tax. The fact is that the man earning $185 a week has received a reduction of $2.65 a week. When one compares that with the fact that a man earning $400 a week has received a reduction of $16 a week and the Prime Minister has received a reduction of $60 a week one can appreciate how the people have been misled and fooled by the glib tongue of the Prime Minister and, most 

<graphic href="108131197803090_34_2.jpg"></graphic>

importantly, by the propaganda machines of the Press of this country. As I have shown in that table, the Press has made huge profits. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table that compares the net incomes of families under the dependant rebate and family allowance schemes. Once again, I discussed this table with the Minister who was previously in charge of the House. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

I turn now to family allowances. This Government has talked about indexing everything. It has indexed everything under the sun with the exception of pensioner dependant allowances and family allowances. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which sets out what the family allowances would be if they were indexed. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197803090_35_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197803090_35_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197803090_35_2.jpg"></graphic>

week. There are 1 15,000 children of recipients of those benefits involved. They are being robbed of $ 12,857,000 a year. The 309,000 children who are dependants of pensioners are being robbed of$46,448,000. 
Has the Prime Minister noticed the constitutional debacle that occurred in South Australia yesterday when the appointment of judges, the sacking of Salisbury and the setting up of a royal commission were found to be invalid? 
-Order! I have been in the Chair for three minutes and in that time I have not heard the honourable member for Fremantle tie in his remarks to the amendment which has been moved to the motion. The honourable member has 1 5 minutes to talk to the amendment. I would be very interested to hear the honourable member tie in his remarks to the amendment which has been moved. 
Very recently the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation estimated that if the bauxite development goes as planned, sometime after the turn of the century there will be an increase in the salinity in the South Dandalup dam from the current level of 184 milligrams of salt per litre to something like 270 milligrams of salt per litre. That is a very substantial increase and whilst it is below the recognised international standards for consumable water, it limits the options open to the Metropolitan Water Board in terms of using that very pure water for the purposes of diluting other less pure water from other sources. So we can see that the expansion of bauxite mining in the Darling Scarp will have an impact on Perth's water supply. As all honourable members would, I think, acknowledge the interests of the population of Perth come before the interests of the bauxite miners. Therefore, if the water supply is at risk, constraints will have to be placed on the activities of those bauxite miners. 
Even if we have unlimited access to the current catchment area there is still a very great shortfall to be made up in terms of the production of fresh water from now until the turn of the century. One extra source of water is the underground water supply. It is intended that within the next few years, at least until the turn of the century, approximately 90 million cubic metres of the 450 million cubic metres which is required before the year 2000 will be taken from underground supplies. It is to that point that I want to devote a small amount of attention because it raises national implications about the seriousness of the Perth water supply problems. The point is that Australia is a signatory to an international convention for the preservation of wetlands of international importance. If it is likely that the exploitation of underground water supplies will affect those wetlands it is clearly a problem which should exercise the mind of everybody in this House. 
The result of taking out massive amounts of underground water is that it is likely to lead to a lowering of the water table. This fact is generally accepted- but it is not yet clear to what extent this will occur. The Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board in Perth is prepared to admit that a reduction of half a metre has occurred in the last two years. However, it is anticipated that the extraction at that site where that measurement was observed will double in the next few years. So one really has no idea of the extent to which the water table is likely to be lowered. As well we know that there has been a great increase in the extraction of underground water supplies by private consumers, and the effect of that is similarly unknown. 
Whilst we can only speculate on the extent to which the water table will be lowered, many scientists are prepared to predict dire consequences as a result of the permanent lowering of the water table. For instance, it will have serious consequences for the flora of the area. If the water table is lowered the existing species will be replaced by other species. As a contributor to a seminar held recently in Perth,  Dr T.  E. H. Aplin was moved to say: 
Thus a judgment needs to be made, and made soon, as to whether the conservation of native vegetation, with its unique flora, together with the fauna, deserves a high status or not. 
He was prepared to say that the lowering of the water table was likely to threaten the existence of the unique flora of the region. Turning to the fauna of the region, we find that it also is under substantial threat. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in an article published in January 1977, just over a year ago, was moved to say that as a result of pumping adjacent to the wetlands there will be a lowering or disappearance of those wetlands. The article went on to say: 
Migratory birds, both from inland and overseas, depend upon these wetlands for their existence. 
It is a very serious problem if, as a result of supplying water to Perth in this way, we threaten the habitat of both local birds and birds from overseas.  Dr Riggert  who carried out a survey in 1966 was able to say even at that time that nearly 50 per cent of all wetlands had been destroyed. If we are interested in maintaining the current water fowl populations it is necessary that we should preserve what is left of the wetlands on the coastal plains. The point is that the intention of the Western Australian State Government to provide for the shortfall in water supplies for metropolitan Perth involves at least the threatening of the wetlands to the north and south of the city of Perth. An important point for the Parliament to remember is that Australia is a signatory to the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat. As a result of signing that Convention and that Convention coming into force this Government has the power to make regulations to give effect to the provisions of the Convention. Clause 1 of Article 4 of that Convention states: 
Each Contracting Party shall promote the conservation of wetlands and waterfowl by establishing nature reserves on wetlands, whether they are included in the List or not, and provide adequately for their  wardening 
One of the problems in Australia in trying to give effect to that Convention is that the Commonwealth Government relies upon State governments to determine which wetlands in thenStates ought to be preserved in accordance with the Convention. It is high time that this Government decided to honour its international obligations and, regardless of the tardiness of the States, enforce the provisions of that Convention to which Australia is a signatory. A survey of wetlands was to be conducted throughout Australia but, unfortunately, through lack of financial support it has been either postponed or abandoned. It is very important that that survey should go ahead. If it is not carried out, this House should move to refer to the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation the question of the conservation and preservation of the wetlands of Western Australia. 
-Before I call the honourable member for Cowper, I ask honourable members, if they are debating the amendment, to confine themselves to it. The honourable member for Fremantle most adroitly and very intelligently tied in his remarks as best he could but they were nevertheless tenuously linked with the amendment. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-I noticed that myself. I have just asked the Deputy Government Whip to fetch a Minister. If the House would give me 60 seconds or so to enable him to return the debate could proceed. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr McVEIGH (Darling Downs) (12.21J-A new light has dawned on the Australian industrial day. This light capsules the spirit of strong yet gentle men and women who have lost their patience, who have suffered for what must seem to them an enternity and who are now putting into practice in this modern environment the same sense of preservation, determination and survival demonstrated by their forebears who tamed the harsh dry areas of Australia. In the words of my leader the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, these men have had a gutful of the unions. 
The current proclamations of good intentions, of rising hopes, will not and ought not dispel the aims and aspirations of rural Australia. For survival the people of rural Australia must achieve eventual triumph. The situation will not come to a neat conclusion when the last sheep is loaded and the last boat has sailed. Rural Australia has had to meet the challenges of our time by direct action and participation. As a member of parliament I am not prepared to let them down and let them wage the fight alone. It grieves me that it has been necessary for rural Australia to say to the Parliament of this country and to the parliaments of the Sates 'come on' because the parliaments up until now have merely said to them 'go on'. Why have the parliaments had to say this? Before answering that question, I pay a tribute to all people who at all times made an honest endeavour to cool a situation which could have led to bloodshed in Australia. I pay a tribute to them for all that they did. Certainly we do not want war among our own people. But rural Australia has been aggrieved by the irresponsibility of trade unions whose members could not make the right choice between the loss to them on the one hand of $2m a year in the short term compared with a loss of $200 m to $300m a year to the sheep producers which represents a fall in live sheep exports of 56 per cent, sheep prices of 45 per cent and carcass prices of 1 2 per cent. 
A meat worker's wage of $450 a week is not unknown. However, the average real income of farmers has deteriorated by 64 per cent in the last five years. Income this year is estimated to be down 19 per cent and costs are estimated to be up by 6 per cent. The average wage of a farmer is $23 below the average weekly male wage in Australia. Meatworkers believed that the loss of $2m to them in the short term was more important than the destruction of the livelihood of many hundreds of thousands of Australian people. They fail to realise that if farmers go bankrupt the meatworkers may not have any jobs. Although there may not be jobs for them as operators in meatworks if livestock exports continue, they fail to realise that many more jobs would be available to them in associated industries provided rural Australia is prosperous. 
It grieves us to realise that waterside workers can load a boat destined for Vietnam to help the people of that country but do refuse to load boats with cargoes, the sale of which will safeguard and ensure the living of Australian men, women and children. On behalf of rural Australia I ask what right trade unionists- meatworkers and waterside workers- have to interfere in affairs of trade? It is no wonder that rural people believe that we have let them down. J submit that the real danger lies in permitting an unsatisfactory state to be a permanent one. What have we achieved if the arrangements that resulted in the solution of the present deadlock are not permanent? A government must not only appear to govern; it also ought to govern. We as parliamentarians are recreant to the trust that has been placed in us if we are not alive to our responsibilities. We should ensure once and for all that this country is governed by the elected representatives and not by trade unionists. 
What can we do in the future? It is not good enough to say that ali is well that ends well. Time stands still for no one and if we do not go forward we will go backwards. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Cohen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The time allowed for this discussion has now concluded. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry a question which follows on the question asked earlier by the honourable member for Cook. As the Vice-President of the United States,  Mr Mondale,  who was recently in this country, is also the  President  of the United States Senate, did the Government receive any official warning from this source as to the possibility of the passing of the Bentsen countercyclical Bill which affects Australia's cattle imports into the United States? 
-The honourable member for Wills has already spoken in this debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I thought both the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  made thoughtful speeches with thoughtful suggestions. If I could pick up the theme running through both speeches in relation to the arrival of Vietnamese refugees the one thing I would say as  Chairman  of the Government Parties' Rural Committee is that if rumours are correct that these vessels are today lined up in Darwin harbour then the Government is probably not doing as much as it should do to achieve safety for the human and livestock populations of Australia by leaving them lined up in that way. If they are wooden boats they should be burnt. If they are steel vessels they should be isolated and sprayed according to technical advice. It may well be that they are subject to that treatment. If that is so, I fall back on my first position and say that obviously they should be destroyed by burning if they are wooden and capable of being destroyed. Already we have had more than implications of certainly a type of blue tongue in Australia. We could get foot and mouth disease from those countries through which these vessels pass. There is a full range of human diseases against which the nation must be safeguarded. 
Parliament is about to pass Bills proclaiming the elimination of death duty and gift duty. This, of course, is the biggest single action it could have taken on behalf of rural properties and farmers in general. I have always felt that for too long the small businessmen and small farmers of Australia have been bearing the brunt in this field of taxation for the bigger farmers and corporate firms that can arrange their finances and their financial structures. In both cases they quite logically wish to see their business perpetuated beyond a generation. It is important for the country that they should be perpetuated beyond one generation. However, for too long the small elements of the business and farming communities have borne the brunt. The Government's legislation is the biggest single action it could have taken in the rural area to help those sorely pressed farmers who are currently experiencing costs rising well ahead of demand for their produce. In many cases they are currently affected by drought: In many cases for the duration of three years. There are other hopeful signs. I have sought leave of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to have incorporated in  Hansard  a chart dealing with the wheat industry. I seek leave of the House to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The chart read as follows- 

-I thank the House. The implication of the chart that the honourable member for Port Adelaide has been kind enough to allow me to incorporate in  Hansard  is that it deals with production in the three major wheat exporting countries- the United States of America, the European Economic Community and Canadawhere production is down, as will be seen from the table. It deals with trade where the world estimated projected use of wheat and flour in the coming year is up significantly on estimations. It deals with stocks held in the seven major wheat producing nations of the world. I think that will be of interest to and a hopeful sign for those farmers involved in wheat production whose income is very largely dictated by world export prices. 
I want to spend the remaining five minutes available to me in discussing the wine grape growing industry. Honourable members will be well aware by now that during the 1978 harvest there has been a very large surplus of grapes in Australia. About three-quarters of the surplus of grapes for which a home has not been found for the produce of many of the 6,000-plus grape growers throughout Australia comes from the State of South Australia. South Australian members of Parliament, and perhaps the honourable member for Wakefield in particular, have a very grave responsibility. Much of the wine and brandy industry of Australia is centred in the Barossa Valley, the Riverland area and more recently in the Clare area of my electorate. The honourable member for Wakefield has a grave responsibility to keep putting forward the views of, on the one hand, the many grape growers, and on the other hand the tremendous number of South Australians involved in the processing and distillation processes of the wine and brandy industry. Because the four minutes remaining to me is not sufficient for me to go into this area in depth, in brief terms the current situation is that the majority of the grape surplus in Australia is of red grapes- -shiraz, cabernet, grenache and other varieties. That is the area in which demand has fallen off quite alarmingly in the past few years. 
If I might mix my metaphors, it is not all beer and skittles on the white wine scene. Some of the surplus today in South Australia is also of white grape varieties. The reason for this is that the increasing demand for white wine is levelling off. The only third ingredient which allows grape growers an outlet for their production is in the field of brandy. Without being politically nasty in any way might I remind the House that the Whitlam Government virtually taxed brandy off the market. In three separate steps it increased the excise on brandy, not by 20 per cent, 30 per cent or 80 per cent, but by 231 per cent in a 10-month period. I must be fair and say that due to the budgetary problems of the Fraser Government it has not done anything to try to correct that situation. It is my hope that as the Federal Government comes towards the current Budget it will have a very close look at the enormous amount of money taken from the wine grape growing areas by the Federal Government. Without being precise, about $29m has been taken from that industry. In other industries this charging by the Government can be borne by processors and by companies and firms involved in distillation and processing. In the case of the wine grape growing industry, its vertical integration is quite acute. Anything that happens at the top end of the industry is visited back through the consumer directly to the producer. 
I hope the House would support me in maintaining that any industry that the Government takes from today should be at least an economic industry, a viable industry. One can think of many, many cases in this country where the opposite position pertains and the Government has in one form or another helped by protection, subsidies, grants and in many other ways. I warn the Government that it cannot continue to bleed an industry that is self-sufficient. Surely a prime purpose of any government action is to keep an industry that is viable in that situation so that it is not a sock on the taxpayer. I am hopeful that the Federal Government will decrease the excise on brandy in the coming Budget. If it does, that will represent the only remaining outlet for surplus grapes. 
In 1954 the government of the day did precisely this. There was then a surplus of grapes and the surplus disappeared within a matter of two or three years. Those honourable members opposite who remember the Coombs report will recall his suggestion to the Whitlam Government that excise advantage to brandy should be removed. Being wise in hindsight- although I fought it at the time- I say that it was logical. There was a big and heavy demand for grapes. There is not now. The Coombs' argument logic can be reversed accurately and entirely and to the advantage of the wine grape grower as brandy represents the only possible growth area with a decrease of excise over the next few years, until once again grape growing and consumer demand gets into balance. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The time for the discussion has concluded. 
-I will have a look carefully at the notice given for General Business Thursday No. 5. In the meantime I invite the honourable member for Melbourne to continue his remarks and to tie them in with the motion he has moved. 
Having used that as a background for the movement of free enterprise into the postal and telecommunications area I would think that what I have said up to this point lays the basis for what I am about to say about the satellite system. The task force inquiry was set up on the basis of a report from Television Corporation Ltd which put a one-sided case for the Packer lobby. It was given a hopelessly inadequate six months to report. I am saying that the background to the inquiry relates to the motion that I have moved today. The time scale for the task force to report did not allow adequate time for information and arguments to be put forward. It seems that a communication satellite would significantly harm the economics of Telecom Australia's operations as the common carrier. One comes to the real point when reading some of the comments that have been put before the task force. Alternatives are raised. The question was raised of the challenge to the role of the common carrier. The point I am making is that the satellite system would assist a very small number of people living in an isolated area. That is a major plank in the Government's argument for such a satellite system. I am not necessarily against that. The fact is that the system has been developed in a terrestrial sense. Huge sums of money have been mentioned in relation to this system. It is wrong to look after the interests of an individual like Packer whose own interests, when one examines the evidence, is to build up a case that the common carrier principle ought to be broken. 
I said before that the thin end of the wedge is being driven in. Developments in postal services are being raised in regard to the satellite system. A substantial subsidisation of commercial television networks may be involved as a cost to Telecom consumers. The task force appears to have pre-empted Telecom Australia's on-going inquiry into the feasibility study of the system. It was argued that it was part of the Telecom system and that it was Telecom's job to investigate, to do a feasibility study in respect of a satellite system. Satellite technology is changing rapidly, and in my view that is sufficient reason for adopting a wait-and-see approach and conducting a proper evaluation before proceeding. I put it to the Minister that if the task force is going to reach any decisions at all then I do not see any problem about considering the economic viability of the proposal and ensuring that it will not raise problems for the taxpayers and ratepayers of this country or for the consumers of Telecom. As I indicated earlier, the distribution of package mail is the only area in the postal service that showed a loss, and the people who receive mail in either country or local areas are going to bear the brunt of that. I think the Minister will see how I have tied those two arguments together. 
On the question of the satellite system, it seems to me that the moment of truth is here. If the task force got to the point of considering that a satellite system was essential and that in the foreseeable future the technology that is now embodied in the design and manufacture of the satellites would be of benefit, then the use of the satellite becomes the next question. Surely the task force should not be permitted to bring down a report on which the Government will act without consulting every section of the community. The investigation should not be based on the narrow confines of the terms of reference under which this task force was set up. It should be broadened so that interest groups have an opportunity to put their views before the task force. 
If the task force is to be the vehicle for making a decision, then it ought to be revamped completely to enable discussion on issues such as economic employment, social considerations, and electronic media ownership and control. The fundamental philosophy behind it should be that the common carrier should be under the control of the appropriate body in this country. At this stage the Opposition believes that that body should be Telecom Australia, or an appropriate body that would have vested in it the control of the communications system to ensure that the service given to the consumers is an equitable one and that people in far-flung areas do not suffer. It could ensure that Packer's activities in regard to cricket, for example, are not subsidised and that the system is not used for the purpose of networking by particular interest groups. The interests of the whole of the community must be considered, and that philosophy ought to flow through the decisions taken by this Parliament as a result of the report of the task force. I understand that the Minister is going to bring to the Parliament a request for an extension of time to enable the task force to take further evidence, with a view to reporting some time in the near future. I put it to him that the terms of reference should not go as far as allowing the task force to make final decisions on which the Government would act. 
As I have said, the then Minister for Posts and Telecommunications  (Mr Robinson)  announced the establishment of the task force on 22 September last year, following a report to the Government prepared for Australian Consolidated Press Ltd by Donald Bond, an RCA employee. The task force advertised for written submissions in late November, inviting interested bodies to make written submissions not later than 13 January 1978. That advertisement appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on 29 November. The period was later extended until 13 February and the task force was required to report to the Minister in May, although the Opposition would like to know the position on the extension of that time. 
The Packer-RCA link cannot be over-stressed. Packer assigned Bond, one of the foremost establishment authorities and apologists on this issue, to prepare a case fitting his own interests. On the basis of that case, the Government established a task force, under a most restrictive time limit which may change the very structure of the telecommunications industry in this country. The effects of that do not stop at that industry as such but move out into other areas. Unless the ramifications of a decision of this nature are considered, the Opposition is apprehensive that this would be yet another move to hand over a public service to private enterprise. The benefits argued by Packer are all questionable. He has said that there would be an ability to relay simultaneous television programs throughout Australia, which is an example of national networking, but that seems to be a small benefit for such a massive cost. The general standard is so puerile that the only benefactors would be the networks. There are also technical doubts about this claim. It seems unlikely that the Packer system could serve all the isolated areas referred to in the submission. However, if one concedes the technical point, the cost of projecting simultaneous pictures around the country is astronomical, and does not stop at the cost of installation of the satellite. Surely other technical aspects are involved in the signal reaching the intended destination. Huge costs would be involved in that, and once again this relates to the design and the technical possibilities of the satellite. The cost must always be considered- not only the capital investment of $300m plus, and running costs and amortisation of about $60m a year for the satellite system, but also the massive cost of dismantling and underutilising a perfectly adequate terrestrial system. I ask the Minister to note that point. 
Telecom Australia supported that contention in its submission to the task force, having regard to the capabilities of the existing network and to Telecom's responsibility to keep prices as low as practicable. I should have thought that that would not be a bad idea at this point of time, when the tightening of the belt concept seems to be such a fetish with the Government and the Ministers concerned. The point I am making is that, as the proposition outlines, in the telecommunications area there has been an infiltration into the public service area for some years. We never hear of the Packers of this world wanting to take over the Victorian railways. We never hear of any of the private enterprise people trying to take over - 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I will not take up more than a minute of the time of the House. I support the sentiments that have been expressed by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in relation to Alex Ramsay. Alex Ramsay presided over the South Australian Housing Trust at a time when it was the envy of every State in the Commonwealth, in the early days of his job. Admittedly there was a heavy subcontracting system that possibly made it successful. One could debate whether that was right or wrong. The fact was that those early Playford days the Housing Trust produced houses of quality and at a rate with which no other State of the Commonwealth could compete. I think the honourable member for Reid is right in drawing the attention of the. House to the fact that Alex Ramsay is no longer with us. I would like this side of the House because I knew Alex Ramsay personally and well. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-Order! It being past 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Order The honourable member for Denison will wait until he makes a speech himself. He will then see how the House judges his remarks. 
The political bite in the new federalism for the States was lucidly set out in a Federal Treasury paper on the subject reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in May. 
The paper, prepared for the February Premiers Conference, warned that the whole scheme could be 'summarised as the Commonwealth handing over the dirty work of increasing taxes to the States '. 
That quote from a Treasury document in 1976 sums up exactly what this Government is abouthanding over the dirty work of raising taxes to the States. It is interesting that the Treasury was so frank as to put that to the Government. The States could well be faced with a large amount of this dirty work referred to by the Treasury. From the past behaviour of this Government, and given its Budget deficit problems and its clearly expressed intentions as expounded recently by the temporarily-resurrected Minister for Finance, the Government is likely to cut severely indeed into specific purpose payments in the next Budget, especially when, as a result of this legislation, it can tell the States to raise the money themselves if they need it. 
It is therefore by no means beyond the bounds of possibility that it could cut specific purpose payments by something like 20 per cent, which would reduce payments to the States by $880m. If the States were then to make up that lost revenue by raising income tax, the average tax increase would be about $3 a week. This realistic example demonstrates the possible impact of this legislation and points particularly to the hollowness of the Government's election promises about tax cuts. Tax cuts were a major part of this Government's election campaign. It had fullpage advertisements with telephone numbers to ring in capital cities to 'find out what your tax cut is going to be '. All this could be wiped out by the legislation that is now before the House. 
We were told that there would be an average tax cut of $3 a week, and now we see that reductions in specific purpose payments by this Government could in the near future force the States into increasing taxes by something of the order of $3 a week. Clearly, this is a government of Indian-givers; it gives with the one hand and takes away with the other. That is happening in area after area. In fact, it is happening to the States in another important respect right now. The Government gives the States the right to borrow outside of the Loan Council. That is something that the States have been asking for, but you can bet your bottom dollar that whatever the States get outside the Loan Council will be deducted from what they get from within the Council and from the capital grants made by this Government. They will get nothing for nothing. What is given to them on the one hand will be taken from them on the other, just as will be the case in relation to income tax in this country. The Fraser Government is exposed by the kind of legislation that is now before the House. 
All Premiers except one, the Premier of Western Australia, have made it clear that they are opposed to this legislation. That fact, plus the potential for losing control of economic management through giving an important macroeconomic lever to the States in the form of income tax, provides further reasons for opposing this legislation. I therefore move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House condemns the Government's proposed Federal financial arrangements, on the grounds that 
, the real level of payments to the States will be reduced; 
the States will be forced to introduce a State income tax; 
there will be cuts in employment opportunities offered by State governments, thus adding to the unemployment problem; 
capital works will be further reduced with damaging effects on the building and construction industry; and 
the standard of services offered at the State level will decline. 
I direct to the Acting Prime Minister a question which follows up the question asked a little while ago by the honourable member for Moore. Will superphosphate made from Duchess rock be more expensive to Australian farmers than other superphosphate? If so, can he say how much more expensive it will be? Will the Minister give me an assurance that the Government will look long and hard before committing the farming community to another increase in input costs? 
-I call the honourable member for Hughes. 
-Order! I am sorry to interrupt the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, but the problem he gives me is that if he goes on with this very interesting historical dissertation on foreign affairs there is no way that I will be able to stop a debate on Vietnam or anywhere else as the debate continues. I ask the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, if he can, to relate his remarks slightly more closely to the Bill. 
-Order! There is no substance to the point of order. The Chair will be the judge as to relevance. I call upon the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to continue. 
-Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-I hope you are not taking exception to the fact that you are in the chamber. 
What I am saying is that the danger in the Opposition 's amendment, if it were able to accept this principle, is that it would close down in one hit the East Timor Information Centre and, for the second time, the Latvian consulate in Melbourne which has been operating since 1934. 1 remind the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that it was his government, when he was a Minister of the Crown, which granted de jure recognition to the Soviet incorporation of the Baltic states. Our Government reversed that decision on 16 December 1975, three days after the Federal election. If the Labor Party got back into power its first job would be to close down the Latvian consulate in Melbourne, the second job would be to close down the Rhodesia Information Centre, and the third- typical of its socialist upbringingwould be to close down any group of citizens in this country who wish to raise their protests against the government in their country of origin. I feel that I have to make these points fairly firmly because there are, I suppose, 200,000 or 300,000 Baltic people in this country who remember what Labor did, to its eternal shame. 
The Opposition comes in here preaching about removing the rights of people to be able to put up a little sign saying that they represent something. It wants to close down the Rhodesia Information Centre because the Labor Party traditionally is against free speech. The Opposition would rather shut down such places than debate with them. As far as the Rhodesia Information Centre is concerned, it has never put itself forward as an embassy, it has never put itself forward as a consulate. Whether the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and I agree or disagree with what they are saying, let me say that we on this side of the House, being Liberals and believing in freedom of speech, will preserve their right to say what they want to say. We will not close them down on the pretext that they pass themselves off as a consulate or embassy. We can see the import of the Opposition 's amendment. If it is agreed to by this House it will be fair warning to any group in the Australian community that does not happen to agree with the views of the Australian Labor Party that when it gets back into power it will close them down. In the honourable member's speech tonight he could not help, intertwining the Ustasha. 
The Labor Party, I am sad to say, has treated this Bill as yet another opportunity to denigrate a significant section of the Australian ethnic community. Whilst we have our obligations as a nation under the Vienna Treaty, whilst this Bill has received the most careful consideration from at least two Government back bench committees, and I think it is fair to say it has received considerable consideration from the Ministry itself over a period not of weeks but of months, because it is important legislation, I deplore the fact that the Labor Party has used it as a vehicle for scandalising and defaming a section of the community that I do not believe should be so scandalised and defamed. I regret that in the speech of the  Deputy  Leader he repeatedly referred to Ustasha. I do not know anybody in Ustasha and I have no sympathy for Ustasha, but I would never presume to defame every Palestinian as a member of the Palestine Liberation Organisation; I would never presume to defame every Irishman as a member of the Irish Republican Army. Yet tonight by example the honourable member has put a smear, whether he likes it or not, on 120,000 Croatians in this country. 
Lionel Murphy all over again, but four years after the event. 
The Opposition should have given credit for the restraint in the legislation. There are two aspects to which I wish to refer. The first aspect is that the proceedings under this legislation, unlike equivalent legislation in the United States of America, are civil and not criminal. I believe that to be a point which is worth noting. In America people who pass themselves off as having consular or diplomatic authority and who do so with an intent to defraud- that can cover a multitude of sins- are liable to the full weight and effect of the criminal law. This legislation is civil. What does it provide? It provides for a hearing before a judge of the Federal Court. That judge must have evidence upon which he is prepared to issue an injunction. It is an open hearing in a court of the land into which any member of the community can walk and to which any member of the community can listen. So, first and foremost, the protection given to the citizen is judicial. 
The second proposition is that even if the person fails to comply with the injunction, the provisions for enforcement are not the traditional provisions of contempt of court which could involve imprisonment but are summary provisions which involve a fine of $200. I can see the left wingers of the Labor Opposition side of the House thinking to themselves: 'Heavens above, that is a pretty light penalty. It should be more. These men should be locked up for 10 or 20 years'. I was one who was more than concerned about this legislation. Frankly, I carry that concern in my heart even to this very moment, in the debate. It is only because of Australia's obligations under the Vienna Treaty, and because the legislation as it now stands before us is far more restrained and moderate than perhaps otherwise it might have been that I can say with, I believe, a clear conscience that the legislation probably ought to be passed by the Parliament, although I reserve my own position in relation to it. 
What I find particularly distasteful in this debate is the effort made by the Australian Labor Party once again to encroach on the Australian citizen 's right of freedom of speech, and his right of expression of political view. I repeat that my views with respect to Rhodesia are well known both within the Party and within the Parliament. I find it to be nothing short of hypocritical in the extreme that during this debate, which specifically deals with embassies and consulates, the Labor Party has taken an opportunity once again to flog the Rhodesian issue. 
I simply say in conclusion that I suppose in five or six years time, if we find that Russian involvement in five out of the seven conflicts in Africa has been successful, if we find that strategically Africa, the so-called zone of peace on the western seaboard of the Indian Ocean- western from our point of view- is under Soviet control, somebody might say: 'Why was it that people in this country did not listen to something that was going on? Why was it that until last week the giant United States of America was silent?' I applaud what Or Brzezinski has said. I applaud what  Mr Huang  Hua, the Foreign Minister of China, has said. It seems to me that the only group in this country which is actively supporting the Soviet Union is the Opposition in this House. It does not seem to accept what the Russians are doing. It does not accept the threat to the peace of the world. It rejects out of hand what China is saying and it rejects, of course, what the United States is saying. 
In speaking to this Bill tonight the Deputy Leader of the Opposition roamed far and wide. Worst of all, in dealing with the protection of the integrity of consulates and embassies he tried yet again to bring smear not only on the people of Croatia but also on thousands of Croatians who have come to Australia. 
-Order The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for Wills, I would invite him, if he could, to comment on what I regard as the centre hub of the Bill; that is, the establishment of spurious embassies in Australia and the making of false claims as to diplomatic or consular status. I have not heard a lot of mention to it so far. I hope the honourable member for Wills will lead the way. 
-There is no point of order. 
-Before I call the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, I thought that the honourable member for Corio intended when he rose to ask a question, or maybe more than one question. He prefaced his remarks by saying that it is unusual for the debate on these matters to come back to the House. Do I gather that if I allow the Minister to rise, the honourable member is prepared to have this motion disposed of because he has not sought to adjourn the debate? 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-As I understand the motion before the House, it is to terminate the effect of determinations 1978/6 and 1978/7. 1 wish to refer- I will do so very briefly and on a low key because I do not regard it as of very great importance- to determination 1978/9 which alters postage as it affects members and senators. The paragraphs to which I refer are 8.3 and 8.4. 1 am quite prepared to be found out of order but I am referring to a comparison between the determinations we are seeking to terminate and their effect on determination 1978/9. Determination 1978/9 of the Tribunal made three main changes. The first was in the area of the number of pre-paid envelopes that may be obtained and posted, under the old determination, at Parliament House and that now can be posted in the electorate. This is to save cartage by members who may well compile documents back in their electoral offices. Now and then they had to cart rather massive documents in suitcases to Canberra for postage. 
-Order The discussion is concluded. 
I listened with interest to the concise speech of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I thought that his case was not a strong one and that, as the junior Minister in the last Labor Government, he of all people would realise the economic problems that the Government and the country faced at that time and therefore would excuse any attempt to raise revenues, if that was the sole reason for this legislation. I maintain that it is not. The honourable member mentioned in his speech that the action by the Government would increase the possibility of non-economic oil discoveries being harnessed for future use as an offset against the outflows of big amounts of currency which are necessary and which in fact are already apparent on the Australian economic scene. Obviously it will be to the benefit of our balance of payments position if more and more discoveries of oil are harnessed from Australian sources and brought into production. I expect that the honourable member for Blaxland understands that fully. One could go a stage further and say that the action by the Government certainly will help to stimulate new discoveries if the resources are there. I see no reason why that should not prove to be so. 
Probably another important strategy behind the Government's action is that it will hasten research into alternative forms of energy. One matter that interests the Government Parties Rural Committee is the use of ethanol- a source of power alcohol- as an additive to petrol. I think it is perfectly obvious that the higher the world parity price for fuel becomes- obviously we cannot dismiss lightly the action taken over the years by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries- the more important it will be to mount proper research to see what additives can be used in the average Australian car. There is no question that the action which the Government is currently taking will stimulate this sort of research activity. 
I understand that ethanol is the opposite of methanol, which is a derivative of coal and timber. Ethanol has its source in wheat, sugarcane, sugarbeet, cassava, grapes- a wide variety of horticultural lines of production. It does not take a lot of imagination to realise that in time to come sources of ethanol which may be used as an additive could come from areas of rural production where surpluses currently exist. I think immediately of the huge surplus of grapes that exists in Australia at present. As cyclical movements occur under the roughly free enterprise system which dictates the demand for rural products, it might well be that in time to come we will see the use of plants for the production of power alcohol. I can think of one at Walleroo in my electorate that was built during the war to produce power alcohol if the need arose for its use. That need did not arise. 
Given the huge potential for price increases in all sorts of fields of energy, it would not be beyond the bounds of possibility, in years to comethis could be promoted by the research that will flow from this action by the Government- to think seriously once again of using additives to the petrol that currently powers a wide variety of vehicles. At this stage a lot of doubt exists as to the percentage of additives which could be used. Fifteen per cent seems to be a quite safe margin. 
Other experts hold the view that up to 20 per cent will be quite suitable, without any major reconstruction of the engine or carburettor system being needed. For all we know at this stage that could lead eventually to refashioned engines and the complete use of power alcohol as a source of motivation. That is the sort of thing I have in mind in regard to the Government 's action. 
Contrary to what the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said the other day, the honourable member for Blaxland pinpointed the major area of difficulty. I refer to freight costs in highly non-labour intensive industries such as the wheat industry in Australia. These industries are experiencing a real problem which flows from the days of the Whitlam Government- a huge increase in costs. This causes trouble in being competitive and in meeting the world price for wheat. The wheat industry, in particular, by increasing its own productivity and its own machinery input has been able to achieve the competitiveness that is so necessary. Unquestionably, this measure, which will increase the cost of petrol to primary producers and the freight component of their ultimate output, will be a source of difficulty for them. 
I think it is proper, therefore, that we have a look at the announcements made on freight subsidies or grants to the States for that purpose. I note, for instance, that 12 years ago a LiberalCountry Party Government said that it would make sure that no one in Australia paid more than 3.3c a gallon more than the capital city prices. That Government did just that. Four years ago the Whitlam Government raised the price of petrol for country people. A year later it abolished the subsidy scheme altogether, just as it abolished so many things on the advice contained in the Coomb's report. 
The current Government has acted already to ensure that nobody in Australia- the Government was thinking especially of those in the remote areas- pays more than 4c a gallon above the normal wholesale city price. The freight component has been subsidised to make sure that that price applies. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  have said that within the life of this Government the margin will be reduced until it is no more than 2c a gallon above the wholesale city price. Primary producer organisations and the farming community, particularly those whose output is closely allied to export markets, will be looking to see that the Government honours that promise in as short a time as possible. I think all rural producers will realiseprobably more so than any other people in the community- that this will depend on the revenue position of the Government. 
This brings me back to one of the aims of this Bill. Increased revenue of $600m-plus in one year seems to me to be making a real contribution to the Government's attempt to get the deficit down and to get some order into the affairs of the nation once again. 
I do not think that would worry me as much as it would worry some of my socialist friends. What concerns me is whether the input will lead to further development of petroleum products and resources for the benefit of the nation. I follow the honourable member's point of view. The matter does not perturb me in the way it perturbs him. 
I suppose it is proper, therefore, that we look at the attitude of some rural organisations, in view of the statements I have made over the last two or three minutes. For instance, Don Eckersley of the Australian Farmers Federation comments very favourably on the general thrust of the Budget but, quite properly, representing rural people, he draws attention to the matters to which I have been referring in the last few minutes. The Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council adopts roughly the same attitude, saying that the biggest burden for farmers arising from the Budget is the decision to move immediately to import parity pricing for crude oil, resulting in an increase of 3!c per litre in the price of petrol. I am not quite certain whether it will amount to that total, judging by the evidence given to various State price fixing authorities. The AWGC further says that already farmers face enormous fuel costs, and whilst the eventual inevitability of the move is generally recognised, the rapid rise will be difficult to adjust to. It says that the decision underscores the need for the fuel freight subsidy scheme, as I have just mentioned, particularly for people in remote areas. Overall, it believes that the Budget is appropriate to the conditions and that the Government is to be commended on its determination to continue to fight inflation first. 
What is a little more difficult for me to deal with this afternoon is the matter of spirits generally, and the wine and brandy industry in particular. As moves have to be made to meet market prices, producers also must move further into mechanisation with a consequent increase in costs flowing from the increases in the price of fuel.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you are looking a little anxious about my remarks. The inexorable move to mechanisation touches those primary producers as much as it touches many others. Honourable members will not be surprised to learn that the Government will not be introducing a Bill touching on any other form of spirits until later in the year. So I thought that I would grab the opportunity to say that when the Excise Amendment Bill (No. 2) is introduced I will not be supporting it.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am not sure how far you will allow me to go in this direction but I am grateful to you for having allowed me to make that statement. 
I am relating my remarks on fuel costs to the general position of some industries, particularly the brandy industry. I point out that I will not rest until I have convinced governments of all political persuasions that the family farm, which is the life investment of the small farmer, is a totally different ball game from industries that have their source of raw material in an annual crop. Somebody must point out to the Government that there is a difference and that this industry must be looked on as an Australian industry which contributes $29.5m to government revenue. Until I can make a breakthrough and show that the status quo of the excise generally, as set down by the Whitlam Government, is not inviolate, is not to be taken as gospel truth and that no movement away from that situation can be made, I will not feel that I have done my job. Having said that, I am quite prepared to bring my remarks to a halt because it is my intention to release the rest of my remarks to the media outside this House when I resume my seat. I am grateful for the opportunity to point that out. 
I think it is time that Treasurers and Ministers distinguish between the vertically integrated Australian industries paying huge sums of money into general revenue and those that are merely a marketing exercise using as a raw material an annual crop. I hope that when the Excise Amendment Bill (No. 2) comes before the House I will be given the opportunity to vote against it. It may come forward in a form which precludes me from doing so. I hope that that would be the last time on which I would have to do so. Sooner or later somebody from either side of the House will have to make the points that I have made in relation to the future of the brandy industry. I have transgressed the rules by referring to that sort of spirit instead of to the sort of spirit that is the subject of this Bill today. By and large, with the small reservation I have outlined in relation to freight costs and costs to primary producers in the substance of this Bill, I support the Government's move. I believe that all sorts of good research and capacities will come from it. All sections of the community will have to trim their sails in some way or other because of the budgetary difficulties we have inherited from other administrations. I support the Bill. 
-I listened with interest to my friend the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  put forward the best case he could on behalf of the people of his electorate. Other honourable members have done that and other honourable members will do just that. The honourable member for Riverina ignored the importance of the overall effect of the Budget. There is no way that any farmer or anyone who is not involved in the public service sector can look at this Budget as other than the best means they have for future survival. It is as simple as that. One could argue about the effect of fuel prices on wheat farmers, the lack of increase for sugar producers, for whom I have great sympathy, and the impact of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty on wheat growers, fruit growers and everyone else. Nevertheless, the thrust of the Budget, although we are not debating it tonight, is such that those people eventually will be better helped by this Budget. They will have a better take-off base than any other section of the Australian community. Fuel costs and freight charges affect all people in country areas, contrary to the opinion of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who felt that people in city areas were hit the hardest. There is no doubt that he is wrong and that it will hit- I accept that it will hit- people in rural areas. 
The Labor Party's opposition to this Bill tonight is one of the most blatant pieces of political shenaniganism that I have seen for some time. I will elaborate on this further at a later stage. I should also like to refer to views expressed on this issue by members of the Labor Party on another occasion. Before I deal with that I should like to talk in my capacity as  chairman  of the very important joint parties rural committee. I point out that we welcomed the representations made to us by representatives of the sugar industry and I have deep sympathy for the position in which they are placed. Honourable members heard the facts described by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  a little while ago. Thanks to the frightful period we experienced when the Labor Government was in office, the costs of sugar growers increased by 135 per cent. Since that time they have received a 7 per cent increase- if my memory is correct- in the price of sugar. They have a legitimate case to put to the Industries Assistance Commission. Their case will be aided by the Bill before the House tonight. In fact, it will help them considerably because it represents an added cost that I am sure the sugar industry will not forget when it presents a case to the IAC. 
I would like to thank the Queensland Cane Growers' Council for going to the trouble of coming from Queensland to meet with us. A healthy exchange of views took place at that meeting. That Council also is very interested in the Bill before the House tonight. But we should not adopt the short-term viewpoint that the honourable member for Darling adopts on occasions. 
I am sorry, the honourable member for Riverina. I was getting the honourable member for Riverina muddled in my mind with Al Grassby. They are so similar in type. 
I will certainly withdraw if the honourable member takes offence. 
-That is right. I prefer the honourable member for Riverina, who used to be the honourable member for Darling, but that may not be everybody's judgment. Before we get too carried away with excitement over this single issue we would do well to look at the IAC report and at the reasons why the IAC recommended a three-year phasing out of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. The reasons given by the IAC have some validity. I do not question that. I think honourable members would do well to stop and think about whether subsidisation of any industry amounts to a misallocation of resources. It does not suit me any more than it would suit the honourable member for Riverina to say that labour-intensive industries, which both he and I represent, do not need protection. I accept that they do. If we look to the health of the national economy in the future one cannot help but wonder whether subsidies should be given in areas that are highly labour-intensive, especially if the consumer price index continues to rise at the rate it rose under the Labor Government some years ago. One cannot help but wonder whether there is any future in that sort of industry or whether the resources of the Government should go to those industries that are not so labour-intensive. I have referred to the problems confronting the IAC in this regard. I say that it is a respectable argument in the national interest. It might not suit the honourable member for Riverina. It might not suit me. But the simple truth on a single issue is that any help we can get for labour-intensive industries we will try to get. 
Let us stop at that point and consider the historical significance of what has happened in relation to the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. It was introduced originally- the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  was quite correct- at the rate of $80 a ton. This was adjusted, contrary to the remark of the honourable member for Riverina, to $78.74 a ton. At around that time- in its 1 975 report- the Industries Assistance Commission came down with the concept of phasing out completely that subsidy over a three-year period. At that stage, from memory, there was an election and the current Government said that it would retain the bounty on superphosphate for a period of years- I have forgotten how many. After two or three years we brought it down to $60 a ton, where it has remained until this Budget was brought down. It was announced in this Budget that the subsidy will be extended until December 1 979- that is 1 5 months away at least- but at a reduced rate of $40 per tonne of nitrogenous content. After the IAC report first came down we had the typical attitude of the Labor Government and Ministers of that time of saying nothing about it. There was no way in which the farmers of Australia could read into the Whitlam Government's attitude at that time anything other than that it would agree with the recommendation in the IAC report to phase out the bounty over three years. The honourable member for Riverina can argue his head off as much as he likes but by saying nothing the Labor Government accepted the fact that the concept in the IAC report would be accepted. 
It is not rubbish. Not one member of the Labor Government ever said anything against that IAC report. We of the then Opposition did. We set down the criteria of what we would do in government and we did it. We did not accept the cutting out of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty over a three-year period. The Labor Government was judged by its silence. 
I will be interested if, when I sit down, the honourable member for Riverina can quote me anything in that policy that said that the Labor Government would do other than abide by the IAC report. That was the position at that time, that was the position the growers accepted and that was the position that we of the then Opposition accepted. Let me go a little further to show what a sham honourable members opposite are up to tonight. What did the State governments suggest? The Liberal Ministers for Agriculture with whom we consulted supported our view that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty should not be phased out. 
I am sorry, I should have said members of the Government parties. Let me quote what the Minister for Agriculture in South Australia said. It is typical of the sort of advice that was flowing in to the Labor Government as it was tottering on the brink of defeat and to this Government when it came to power. 
I have never heard of that nonentity! Let me quote a remark from the South Australian Minister - 
Nobody can remember him or what he did. It is no use the honourable member gabbling because I am dealing with the facts. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I object to the honourable member for Melbourne saying that I am telling lies when I am not and I ask you to make him withdraw that comment. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I maintain that the honourable member for Melbourne should get to his feet and apologise like a man and not slink into his seat. 
I was about to quote what the South Australian Minister for Agriculture said at that time in order to demonstrate the sham that is being foisted on this Parliament tonight. This is the sort of advice that came forward during that period- in 1975. The  Deputy  Premier of South Australia, the Honourable Des Corcoran, reading a report brought down by the Minister for Agriculture, who was in a different House, said: 
Most of the State's cropping regime depends on nitrogen supplies by legumes and the use of nitrogenous fertilisers occurs mostly only in Queensland where it is supplied to the sugar crop. My colleague - 
That is, the Minister for Agriculture-   . . feels that the recommendation by the Industries Assistance Commission to phase out the nitorgenous fertiliser bounty over three years is sensible. 
That sums up the Labor Party's view throughout Australia at that time. For members of the Opposition to get up tonight on a hollow sham and try to play politics over this issue is beneath contempt. I am ashamed to have to join forces with them in any shape or form. This sort of cheap political by-play does not belong in a national parliament and I consider the view they are taking tonight to be inconsistent and absurd. Let us hear from one or two of their federal members on the subject of bounties.  Senator Cavanagh  believed that the bounty was going to the people who did not need it. I would not have quoted that comment if the honourable member for Riverina had not introduced the superphosphate bounty into his speech- I think by mistake- a little while ago. One can go on.  Senator Walsh  took exactly the same view. Who is  Senator Walsh?  We know but I doubt whether anyone in the outside world knows that  Senator Walsh  is the agricultural anything. He takes the same view. Where are members of the Opposition now with their stupid, cheap stand? They are punk and they know it. 
Perhaps I can explain it even to the honourable member for Riverina. 
-Cool off, old fellow. I said that I would not have brought that up except that the honourable member for Riverina introduced the bounty on superphosphate into his own speech. I cannot see how even the Labor Party would have a different principle on bounties. There is deathly silence from the Opposition. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I can assure you that I was not trying to sheet it home in any shape or form. I think I have made the point that I really set out to make. This exercise by the Opposition tonight is nothing more than political chicanery. On their past record, Opposition members are open to accusations of insincerity on every remark they have made tonight. Nobody wants increases in fuel prices. Nobody wants increases in the price of liquor. Nobody wants increases in the prices of all sorts of things, but the Budget the Government has brought down is the proper Budget to put Australia on a sound foundation and allow the private sector industries to have a reasonable chance to take off in the future. Anyone who takes an opposing view tonight, in spite of his lack of judgment, in my view has not got the best interests of his country at heart. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Hear, hear! 
-I ask the Treasurer to resume his seat for a minute. I was not in the Chair at the time, but I believe that the previous  speaker  was heard in comparative silence. I ask the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Blaxland to treat the Treasurer in the same fashion. 
I conclude my remarks by rejecting the accusations made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. He spent most of his time hurling insults at members on this side of the House. He completely failed to offer any alternative response to the strategy of this Government on the problem of unemployment. He pretended once again, following a faithful line, to establish that unemployment suddenly arrived when this Government came into office. In my view, he failed completely to come to grips with what I should have thought was the prime responsibility of an Opposition spokesman on employment and industrial relations, that is, to argue at every opportunity the alternative policy and the alternative strategy of the Opposition on that subject. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate on the three measures? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
-Before I call the honourable member for Dawson I think I had better explain that I did not interrupt the honourable member for Griffith because he is comparatively new to this House. He referred to the Premier of Queensland as Joh BjelkePetersen. I point out to the honourable member that the proper parliamentary phrase is 'the Premier of Queensland'. The Premier's name is hard enough for the southerners in this place to pronounce, anyway. 
-There is no point of order. I advise the honourable member for Blaxland who has made his speech, to remain quiet and not interrupt so much. 
Claims that the ALP had great victories with pricing arrangements are hard to justify when looking back over the record. What did the companies say who were involved? Honourable members should ask them. All the companies can remember is the interference and intervention of the then government in negotiations that they carried out. We can remember very clearly what happened with regard to iron ore. The companies negotiated and negotiated and were then told that the contracts were not satisfactory and that they should go back and renegotiate. Because the companies post-dated an agreement on a slightly higher price the government agreed to the contracts. The analysis was that the change made no difference. All it did was irritate our customers and delay the conclusion of the negotiations for about six months. The honourable member should not tell me that his government did any better with regard to iron ore pricing. At the time there was a high world demand and Japan was wanting to buy iron ore. The Labor Party was bullying the Japanese. Where did the Labor Party get? It got nowhere. 
I refer now to coal. We remember only too well the one and only overseas visit of the then Minister for Minerals and Energy to Japan. What did he do? In a panic situation he sold out on negotiations which were actually better than those to which the companies had agreed. He sold out and came back to Australia because the loans affair was brewing. To say that he got better prices is just so ridiculous. The prices were worse than those negotiated by the companies. Those attitudes led to disastrous consequences for this country. 
Our job as a government is to build up confidence with all our customers. The Opposition's attitude is simply to abuse the buyer and not to solve the problems. The honourable member for Blaxland has talked a lot about the problems but not much about how to solve them except by a simplistic approach to which I shall refer in a minute. I am determined to see effective changes made to cope with the problems that have arisen this year. But those changes will come about after consultation with industry. The suggestions and reactions of industry are important. The interests of the companies are involved. Therefore I think it is beholden upon them to give the best advice possible as to how they might benefit. 
Make no mistake, the Japanese steel industry has played the game very hard this year. Through its co-ordinated buying approach, it has, I consider, acted unreasonably tough. I have said that before today. Companies have been forced into accepting terms which are not satisfactory. Companies and Australia are losing out as a result of being compelled to accept contracts this year. There have been what I consider no commercial negotiations. The Japanese steel mills made offers that were non-negotiable. They acted as a single buyer. They decided the price they would offer, and that was it. They made one offer- only one- and they did not budge from it. Quite clearly, Australian producers acting individually are powerless to withstand the unified strength of the Japanese steel mills when the mills make a take it or leave it non-negotiable offer. 
There is a problem. I am studying the problem to decide how best to deal with it. I am studying it in a co-ordinated fashion and am adopting a co-operative approach with the industry. The simplistic approach of the ALP is easy to say. It could have very disastrous consequences. Perhaps the impulsive actions of this impulsive young man are easy to understand, but they are not really the actions of somebody who has a responsibility for the livelihood of" thousands of people in the North West of Western Australia. His actions would stop exports immediately. They would close the mines. They would put thousands of people out of jobs for a time. There would be no income. Is that what the Labor Party wants? Does it merely want to demonstrate its strength without recognising the consequences of this action? 
This is the action of a person with complete insensitivity. He should level no charge of insensitivity against me. I am sensitive to the livelihood of the many thousands of people and the industries in this country. We will come to a conclusion on how to handle this problem in a sensible way. The Labor Party is saying automatically that there will be no exports and that that is the only way to handle the situation. If that action is taken Australia immediately will lose countless millions of dollars worth of exports. The industries involved will stall because they cannot continue to operate without the availability of the Japanese market which takes 80 per cent of our exports. What is needed is a sensitive approach. We need the support of industry. Does the honourable member for one minute say that there is a common industry approach to this problem? If so, let the honourable member for Blaxland tell me what it is. 
I could not quite follow what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  was trying to say. I thought he said that the Australian Labor Party would have adopted the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations. In fact, he did say that. 
Yes, you did. 
Yes, you made that statement. I will check  Hansard  tomorrow morning. You made the statement that the Labor Party in government would adopt the IAC recommendations. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-Last night whilst in the chair during the adjournment debate I made a comment in the heat of the moment which on hindsight could be interpreted as a reflection on you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  and on other  Deputy  Chairmen. I regret the incident and wish to point out that in no way was it my intention so to reflect. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker  has received a letter from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's failure to make adequate funds available for public housing at a time of pressing social needs and recession in the home building industry. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


 Mi UREN (Reid) (2.24)-There is a crisis in the building industry. The industry is at a 10-year low, with little prospect of recovery in the near future. Insofar as the State governments' public welfare housing is concerned, nearly 100,000 families are on the housing commission lists, waiting for homes. Over 28,000 of those are in New South Wales alone. Building tradesmen are out of work and an abundance of building materials is stockpiled; so, there is no shortage of labour or of building materials. 
Let me give some other details to illustrate the critical situation that exists today. The production of houses during the June quarter was at the lowest rate since the June quarter of 1 967. This completion rate is substantially below capacity. For example, the Indicative Planning Council for Housing states that the men and material to construct 150,000 homes a year are available. The current completion rate is 1 16,000 homes a year, or 78 per cent of capacity. The number of dwelling approvals in July were the lowest since February 1966. Although recent figures for finance approvals for housing by savings and trading banks show some growth in the number of loans approved for established housing, they show in July this year a fall of 5 per cent in the loan approvals for new housing compared with the figures for July last year. We need to pay attention to loan approvals for new housing to assess the real prospects for the building industry. Already there is a slump in the building industry across the board; so, it is important that we look at the new housing aspect of the industry. 
The Commonwealth Budget will further aggravate the situation. All funds allocated for the construction and purchase of housing have been cut by $158m in this year's Budget. The Budget allocation for the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement has been cut by $77m in money terms alone, without taking into account inflation. The allocation for defence service homes has been cut by $ 10.7m. The allocation for housing in the Territories has been cut by $5.3m. Last year's allocation to the Homes Savings Grants scheme has been cut by $15m in this Budget. Effectively, there has been a cut of about $50m if the list of people who are waiting to receive the grant is to be reduced this financial year. The Government knew from a Cabinet submission last year that it needed at least $76m to meet all the commitments in applications for this financial year. 
Let me illustrate in more detail the Draconian cuts that this Government has inflicted on the welfare housing programs of the State governments. Last year gross advances of funds available for State housing authorities under the 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Before I call the honourable member for Corio, I must say that I must have been asleep a little while ago and did not ask the honourable member for Prospect to withdraw an inference against another member of this House. I will not ask him to do so now. 

 -Mr Speaker has received advice from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  that he has withdrawn the matter of public importance which he had submitted for discussion today. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The discussion is concluded. 
If the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  would excuse me, I would think that his effort to drive home a small political wedge in the matter upon which he touched was probably unworthy of the lofty tone he tried to engender into the remainder of his remarks. Furthermore, I think he displayed an abysmal lack of knowledge of the American political scene. The United States Senate is very likely not to adopt the same measure as does the House of Representatives. Everybody knows that when the Houses of Parliament there start to play politics the American  President  is likely to veto the Bill concerned. 
In the few minutes I have available to me tonight in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry I wish to touch on a matter of very great concern to me and, might I add, the only matter in the Budget about which I hold any concern. Apart from this one matter, I think the Budget is an excellent one. I refer to the brandy industry. The action of the Government in raising the brandy excise by 83.6 per cent consistent with the increase in excise on other spirits is of course, in my opinion, quite crazy. To take this action when there is currently a large surplus of grapes is, I think, both stupid and unfeeling; but to produce a situation in which no grapes are likely to be purchased by brandy producers for two years is, frankly, crazy. 
The brandy industry has taken  Vh  years to recover from the frightful knock it took from the 
Whitlam Government, which increased brandy excise by 231 per cent in four steps over 11 months. Since then the industry has been trying to adjust its stock to balance the vastly diminished consumption caused by measures visited upon its industry by the Australian Labor Party while in government. This year, after slightly more than  Vh  years of effort, it finally succeeded. Since the Budget, the industry is now posed with an increased excise that I have just described, and it is likely that brandy producers will not be able to buy any further grapes for upwards of two years while distillers adjust their stock level down once again. This is at a time when many varieties of grapes grown in my electorate and elsewhere throughout Australia are in surplus. I can only describe the action of the Government as I have described it already. 
The Government must introduce an excise differential in favour of brandy if it is remotely interested in the income of grape growers and the current surplus of grapes. I think it is proper to pause there and state quite clearly that historically excise has been increased in times of cyclical upturns in production which have not been matched by an increase in demand. In effect, excise increases have been used by sensible governments in the past, so far entirely governments of the colour of the present Government, to aid in soaking up over-production when it occurs. The reason for this is that wine cannot be stored economically. It is far too bulky a commodity. Spirit, in this case brandy spirit, can be stored economically. Increased excise has been the traditional method of dealing with cyclical surpluses which occur every 15 years or so in this integrated industry. 

 Mr Chairman, you and I will remember looking with horror some years ago at the Coombs report to the Whitlam Government. But even  Dr Coombs  pointed to the success of the mechanism of altering the brandy excise rates so as to establish a differential for brandy and ensure the future of this integrated industry. In his infamous report he said: 
In 1934 this action taken by the Government was successful. 
Let us be fair to the Opposition in relation to the brandy excise. Members of the Opposition are hardly able to hop up and down and speak on behalf of the brandy industry when it was the Labor Government that started the demise of the industry. Therefore, it is up to those members of Parliament who are prepared to take a rational view of the situation to look carefully at the matter. Brandy excise must be adjusted in a judicial way, so that governments are able to even out the cyclical downturns that affect growers' incomes. It has been used in this way to help stabilise the industry. When the Liberal Party was in opposition we performed ferociously when the Whitlam Government increased the brandy excise and removed the excise differential. Injustice to the members of the present Opposition I must say that now we are in government we have done nothing at all to take away the penalty that was imposed. One must be fair; I admit that. I hope I am fair. Certainly the differential between the rate of excise on brandy and the rate of excise on beverages with which it competes has not been altered by this Government to the detriment of brandy, as happened under the Labor Government. In 1973 that differential was 62 per cent in favour of brandy as against Scotch wisky Every time governments, with the best of intentions no doubt, wish to raise revenue by increasing all excise duties the percentage differential in favour of the Australian brandy industry shrinks. The quotas on imported brandy being left aside, the differential is now down to about 1.5 per cent as against 62 per cent in 1 973. 
It is about time that honourable members on both sides of the Parliament realised that the wine and brandy industry is a totally integrated industry and that any signs of governments or the processing industry are visited straight back throught all the channels to growers in the form of a reduced income. It is about time they realised that this is so and that governments cannot determine how much excise should be imposed on alcoholic beverages just by looking at bottles on a shelf. This first revelation came about during the days of the Whitlam Government. I am both disgusted and disappointed that the Government whose side I am on has failed to recognise that the industry is totally integrated and has failed to recognise the effect its action will have on growers' incomes. If this ludicrous situation is carried through to the ultimate degree for the want of revenue, we will put entirely at risk a complete industry in which there is heavy investment. 
On another occasion when I have more time and I have marshalled the figures, as I nearly have now, I will explain to the Parliament that the Government has in fact taken action that is totally counterproductive. Because so little brandy will be sold over the next two years it is very doubtful whether the Government will gain revenue of any consequence from its action. I imagine that many Government members are aware of this possibility, but the fact is that the Government has increased the excise on brandy. I will be very surprised if my forebodings tonight do not turn out to be entirely accurate. Statistics from 1952 and 1953 would mirror the same situation that I predict. Then the Government was forced to take action after having caused much misery. This self-sufficient industry contributed $30m to the Federal coffers last year, but if the current situation persists, in a few years it will contribute nothing. I can only describe the Government's action as unintelligent, boneminded stupidity, no matter which way one looks at it. I am not concerned much for Government revenue, but I have a very great concern and respect for growers of brandy grapes and view with horror the fate they are likely to suffer over the next few years if no charge is made. 
-Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
-Order! The Minister's time has expired. As there is no other Minister present in the House and if the Minister wishes to continue, Sessional Orders enable him to do so until 11.10 p.m. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In directing a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I refer to a recent statement by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on the subject of Lebanon. I ask the Minister to explain to the House the current status of the Australian Embassy in Lebanon, firstly, in respect of the provision of assistance to Australian citizens and, secondly, in respect of refugees from Lebanon, both within and outside that country? 
-I suggest that the honourable member for Adelaide should not put words into my mouth. I would like to know which of the three Bills he is discussing. 
1 support the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  in everything he said to the House today. The advertisement to which he referred states: 
Almost all ASEAN regimes are oppressive, and undemocratic in character, while most of them are repressive military dictatorships. 
Among the list of names included in the advertisement are: Gordon Bryant,  Dr Cass,  Joan Child, Ken Fry, Clyde Holding, Innes,  Senator Cyril  Primmer, Tom Uren and a whole host of others. The name of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  who has raised his hand does not appear. He does not qualify. Where does the responsible side of the Labor Party stand in relation to this issue? Where is the signature of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)?  If his name is not on the list where do honourable members opposite stand as a party? Where on the list is the signature of their foreign affairs spokesman? The answer is that they do not know where their Party stands on the issue. The honourable member for Tangney has made a valid point. Anyone with an ounce of intelligence surely knows that all the countries in the Association of South East Asian Nations are struggling to find their own identity and their own form of democracy. Motions and documents such as this put down by an element of the Parliament are a disgrace to the Parliament as people in those nations attempt to discover their real role in the area in which they live. 
That may be true. Their economic record is better than some of the others. It is disgraceful that an element of the Labor Party obviously does not wish them to succeed in their aim to become more democratic. Where are the arguments against that? A perfect hush lies over the Parliament. Honourable members opposite know that what I have said is absolutely correct. They ought to encourage some of those nations to achieve their aim and not detract from their attempts. That is what every honourable member who has signed that document has set out to achieve. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a disturbing 
Press report today which states that Russian electronic listening devices have been discovered in offices of the Commonwealth Government. Is this report correct? If so, has the Government made the strongest possible protest to the Government of the Soviet Union over this deplorable incident? 

 -Mr Speaker has received the following nominations of members to the legislation committee to consider the Audit Amendment Bill: Government members are  Mr Eric  Robinson, the member in charge of the Bill,  Mr Baume, Mr Kevin  Cairns,  Mr Connolly, Mr. Dobie, Mr Falconer, Mr Fisher, Mr Katter, Mr McVeigh, Mr Simon  and  Mr Wilson.  Opposition members are  Mr John 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both matters? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) What quantities of Australian (a) beer, (b) brandy, (c) whisky and (d) other spirits were cleared in each of the years 1971-72 to 1977-78 inclusive. 
What Commonwealth revenue was received in each of the categories and years referred to in part (1) from (a) excise duty, ( b) sales tax and (c) any other source of revenue. 
What quantities of imported (a) beer, (b) brandy, (c) whisky and (d) other spirits were cleared in each of the years 1 97 1 -72 to 1 977-78 inclusive. 
What Commonwealth revenue was received in each of the categories and years referred to in part (3) from (a) excise duty, (b) sales tax, (c) customs duty, (d) primage duty and (e) any other source of revenue. 
) For each of the categories referred to in parts ( 1 ) to (4) what are the estimates for 1978-79 for (a) clearances and (b) revenue. 
-Order! The correct term is the right honourable the Prime Minister as the honourable member for Port Adelaide knows. 
I intend to speak entirely on Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) in this debate. It is a composite Bill affecting all spirits produced in Australia plus beer and crude oil. As well as brandy and rum, its provisions cover Australian produced gin, whisky and vodka. Rum, with deference to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron),  is a by-product of the sugar industry. Other spirits, as well as beer, are not the prime outlet for the grain growing industry. In fact only 1 5 per cent of the barley crop of Australia is used in the food products category including that used for beer, whisky, gin, vodka and what have you. In fact, that 15 per cent represents less than the annual fluctuations due to season conditions. 
My sole interest in this Bill is in relation to the brandy industry. It is well known to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and others that the conditions that I described for all those other spirits, including beer, do not apply to horticultural planting of trees or vines. The brandy industry cannot turn a tap on and off according to fashion and cannot cope with fluctuating demand situations. Many growers are locked into their production with a small margin available because they are small producers and were able to take action because of rural reconstruction or their personal decisions to adjust their supplies to meet altering demand. 
Only the other day I gave evidence to the Industries Assistance Commission for the second time on grape growing. I was pleased to note a changing attitude by the IAC to this problem in the terms that I have just mentioned. In February, three months later than was anticipated, the IAC report on potable spirits will be presented. I believe that currently it has not been written. I hope that the changed views of the IAC that I noted during the inquiry into grape growing will be reflected in the potable spirits report that reaches the Government in February. 
Whether this anticipation is right or wrong, in February the Government will have a chance outside the framework of the Budget to make up its mind whether it agrees with the IAC report on potable spirits and whether in its wisdom it will make some change in its policy. There is good news and bad news for the industry in that situation. The bad news is that February-March is a trifle late for the ordering of supplies in the general budgeting position of the brandy processing industry. The report might placate the growers who do not understand the difficulties of the processing sector. 
I acknowledge that the Government, with the best will in the world, has not altered any taxation measures relating to the wine sector of the brandy grape industry. A little later I will compare that position with the action of the Australian Labor Party when in government. I shall state my reasons for taking the stand that I intend to adopt. Firstly, brandy manufacturers are a necessary, integral part of the grape growing industry. One cannot differentiate that sector from the other sectors such as the dried fruit sector. The lack of sales of brandy will increase, not decrease, the current imbalance in supply and demand. Secondly, brandy stocks painfully had been brought back to 3.8 years prior to the advent of this Budget. Since this Budget has been introduced, on the newly assessed consumption rates, overnight brandy stocks now represent 6.7 years. Therefore, thirdly, there is currently a critical cyclical imbalance of demand and supply. In other more simple words, there is a growing surplus of grapes. 
Fourthly, brandy spirit is an economically storable product if there is a surplus. Wine certainly is not. Fifthly, I believe that in such times of surplus every avenue, including the establishment of a differential in favour of brandy against its competitors, should be used to correct the substantial loss now apparent in growers' incomes. Sixthly, the brandy industry is an Austraiian industry that could contribute $29m a year to government revenue and $ lm a year to the Australian Wine Board for research and nearly that amount in sales tax. It seems quite infantile to take action that may, as the honourable member for Adelaide said, be counterproductive to revenue in years to come. Seventhly, I should like to refer to my general unhappiness with both sides of this Parliament in refusing to recognise the importance of brandy as an integral part of the grape growing industry and its effects on regional employment. Eighthly, I am taking this stand because of the particular damage done to cooperatives which, due to their structure of grower members, hold a large surplus of red wine and brandy in stock. 
I will not have time to analyse all these points, but I wish to attempt to analyse one or two of them. Let us start with brandy as part of the grape growing industry. Prime Minister Whitlam in opening the Kaiser Stuhl extensions in 1973,I think, advised growers that their futures lay primarily in the production of red table wine grapes and that growers should adjust They have; so now there is a pool of red wines. Growers also adjusted by pulling varieties such as gordas, which have a minor implication in the production of brandy in some seasons, as they have doradillas which are the major brandy producing grapes. Every variety of grape, however, is not as some seem to think an alternative from one sector of the industry to another. Only sultana, grenache, and gordas can be dried as the alternative variety of grapes. The processing industry responded to this position by adjusting its stock of brandy down to 3.7 years to cope with the lower rate of consumption. I now seek to incorporate in  Hansard  table A which I have shown to the honourable member for Adelaide. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811220_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This table shows, amongst other things, quite plainly the outrageous excise increases imposed by the Whitlam Government on the brandy industry. Let us bear in mind that the relative excise rate across the board has not been altered by this Government However, because of the upward movement, there is a decrease in the differential working in favour of brandy as against its main competitor, Scotch whisky. In 1973, the differential that Australian brandy enjoyed over imported whisky was 60.1 per cent. In 1974 it was 24.3 per cent, in 1975 there were two steps- 17.1 per cent and then 11.8 per cent. In 1976 after the sacking of the Whitlam Government it was 5.4 per cent and the differential remained at 5.4 per cent until the last Budget. Due to the upward movements, in harmony with all spirits, the decreasing proportion of the differential is now 2.9 per cent. I believe that these figures explain why the Labor Party tonight felt it was not on strong ground in criticising this Government in terms of widening the differential between Australian brandy and Scotch whisky. Its performance in terms of the brandy industry itself has been abysmal and, of course, it should not attempt to take political advantage, due to the weakness of its own position, on this matter. 
Yes, State and Federal. That is a good point. I do not have a great deal of time, but it is important in South Australia where the majority of the brandy industry exists- ninety per cent of the brandy industry is in my electorate- to remember that the licences for huge amounts of water, granted by the Dunstan Government in that State to firms such as Penfolds at Morgan, Seppelts at Qualco, Yalumba at Oxford Landing, Angoves at Overland Corner and others, have meant an increase in the amount of grapes that can be grown that is more than the surplus of grapes in that area today. I think it is also valid to point out, because the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  has reminded me, that by introducing, with the best motives in the world, price control on grapes the Dunstan Government has succeeded in centralising the entire wine surplus for Australia in Riverland, McLaren Vale and one or two other areas. Obviously, this has an impact on what must happen next year to the incomes of growers. 
The 1978 Budget again altered the consumption rates down at a very inopportune moment because of the relatively low demand for grapes generally. The brandy industry now, as I have said before, has a stock holding of 6.3 years. Without any alteration few brandy grapes will be purchased for at least two years. That seems to be a reasonable assumption. This is an absurd situation in which to place a section of that Australian industry. It is equally absurd to leave grape growers in the position where some of our brandy grapes certainly will be unsalable at a time when many of their red grapes, and last season some of their white grapes, were already unsalable and were left on the vines. The lesson surely to governments of all colours is that this industry is complex. It is not as simple or as simplistic as governments seem to think. It has several parts to it. Many of them are interchangeable when there is a need to adjust. It is a vertically integrated industry wherein the growers, having no economic alternative source of production, are locked into the total health of the processing and the marketing sectors. Adjustments have been made and are necessary. The capacity of the brandy industry to help use surplus grapes at times of imbalance must not be ignored. It is important within the industry to be able to self-adjust by way of the sort of government encouragement I will suggest. 
Historical support for my views is contained in the Coombs report to the previous Government dated June 1973. 1 seek leave to have excerpts of that report incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the House. The Australian brandy industry is part of the grapewinebrandy industry which last financial year contributed, as I mentioned before, in three ways in excess of $30m to revenue. I recognise the need for revenue, but I have serious doubts that an increase in excise duty of 83.6 per cent for Australian brandy will in fact increase revenue as much as expected. In fact, early indications support that view because of the reduced volume of sales. Therefore, there seems to me to be a case for less drastic increase which could maximise revenue yields. For example, an increase of only 46.9 per cent in excise, contrary to 83 per cent, might well gather more revenue and, at the same time, almost re-establish the differential compared with imported whisky which existed before the Whitlam Government onslaught on the brandy industry. I seek to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which explains this statistically. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811220_62_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This chart puts, amongst other things, three proposals. The middle proposal, which I have called proposal B, produces amendments to the Schedule bringing down the excise duty of brandy to $ 1 5 per litre of alcohol. That, as I mentioned a moment ago, would show a percentage increase from the pre- Budget excise duty of 46.9 per cent. This, by the way, would still be higher than that excise increase produced on beer which is in the region of 32 per cent. That sort of excise is, I believe, the proper level that the industry requires to remain viable. 
I have already stated publicly that I would oppose this authorising legislation. I am sorry because it is primarily a Budget Bill, but I will continue to oppose it and try to impress on the Government that it is not a proper method of looking at relative excise rates to look at bottles on the shelf. There is a considerably more important matter of vertical integration which should be looked at and the Austraiian industry should be examined in relation to that. I ask the House to take into account that my only concern with the Excise Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 is to do with the brandy industry and the need for the Government to act in February- after the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on potable spirits is before it- and to reintroduce an excise differential in favour of brandy over its competitors. 
The views I put to the Industries Assistance Commission recently are very simply stated. They are: Firstly, to establish a register of grape growers so that some check can be taken of the vast increase in plantings that contribute to the imbalance of the supply over demand; and secondly, to seek an excise differential initially of about 30 per cent in favour of brandy compared with imported whisky which would cut out when the demand for grapes is high. I refer to my second incorporation in  Hansard  which entirely backs up this point of view by quoting from  Dr Coombs  in his report to the Whitlam Government Thirdly, I have been seeking to review quotas and the 12.5 per cent surcharge on quotas on imported brandy. This matter has helped the industry in a comparatively small fashion and I believe that any consequential increases in the differential duty, as I suggested, would entirely outweigh the value of that form of protection. I believe we would get the Government somewhat off the hook that it is currently on because of adverse reaction to this action by the French Government. I have also advised in the paper that I would seek to produce constraints on overproduction on both grapes and brandy as a processing side of the industry. 
Summing up, I am seeking an adjustable excise differential for brandy while cyclical grape surplus exists, with proper constraints against over-production in both the growing and processing sectors of the industry. I believe this is a responsible suggestion. I believe this action would be a cheaper and more effective way of dealing with the current imbalance than any other single way one can think of, including massive rural reconstruction. It would properly encourage both the industry and the State governments to exercise their proper responsibilities. It may not decrease and it may well increase and it may well increase revenue and it would aim to correct the savage blow that the Budget has, inadvertently I believe, dealt to brandy processors, with all their investment, and to small growers whose income is needlessly in jeopardy. I hope that both the IAC and the Government will see the wisdom of the course of action I suggest. 
-The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  reminds me of an erstwhile honourable member for Bradfield who, from the height of his blue ribbon seat- no doubt the honourable member for Sturt is busy making his electorate precisely that also- and from the point of view of the retired cockies who may live in his electorate, had the nerve to propound on matters about which he knew very little. In this case, the honourable member for Sturt has completely missed the point. In 1973 the differential in favour of Australian brandy over imported scotch whisky was 60.S per cent. At that stage, the Australian Labor Party got its hot little hands on a bit of easy revenue raising, as it thought, and cut the consumption by the Austraiian people of an Australian produced product to half in a period of three years. The effect of the undue rise in excise was to give the brandy industry in a period of three years the dreadful job of trying to cut its stockholding down to that for little more than three years, which is a reasonable amount considering the statutory condition that this Parliament places in the brandy industry of ensuring that brandy has two years in wood before the industry can even start to sell it. 
Brandy is quite different from other spirits. It is quite different from imported spirit, which might be made of barley but more probably is made of grain generally. The Labor Party entirely overlooks the health regulations that apply to Australian brandy. I think I can forgive the honourable member for Sturt because he does not know about the fall-back of the differential that is being faced by the brandy industry. The honourable member for Sturt posed the rather smart argument that we must look at the grape growing industry generally, then pointed out that therefore I should not dare to mention the brandy industry. Again, with respect, the honourable member has missed the point. I cannot blame him for that because I did not have time to read out the section of the Coombs report which I have had incorporated in  Hansard.  Dr Coombs,  a Treasury man and a responsible person in previous governments, has pointed to the situation in a glut in 1951, which was similar to the situation today, when after two years of increasing excise- this is my point, and members of neither Government party seem to appreciate- the then Government was forced to take action. What action did it take to stop a complete debacle? It awarded the brandy industry a differential in its favour. In the section of the Coombs report which I have had incorporated in  Hansard  Dr Coombs  made the point that that was done at a time when there was an ample supply of grapes. Within 18 months that action was successful in achieving a state of balance. The honourable member for Sturt is a great expert on a wide variety of topics and I have a very high regard for him. I just wish that he would confine his interest to those topics. 
-On the third reading of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) I want to deal with a new matter. Members of the Australian Labor Party can consider themselves very well done by. They moved to exclude totally a clause of this Bill in Committee. Because of my commitments to my electorate I voted with them. It was one of the worst examples of political expediency that has ever been visited on the Parliament. The Labor Party took the brandy industry to the cleaners in five moves while it was in Government. Yet members of the Labor Party dare to be pious on this issue for no particular reason when they were the cause of the trouble in the brandy industry. I voice my objection and horror at having to vote on the same side as people who want to play cheap politics over an issue that is important to my electorate. 
-I do not think there is much point in repeating the mechanics of the legislation as dealt with so well by my friend from Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  I rise to support my better friend the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  I do not intend to go over the machinery of the schemes which in debates in this House over a period of time have been well worked over. This afternoon I will take just a few minutes to be a little more contentious and to question some of the beliefs with which we have grown up and with which the dried fruit industry itself has grown up. I do not mean in any way to denigrate the great efforts of the Australian Dried Fruits Association in the past It is certainly one of the more successful producer groups that operates in the rural scene. 
This House should look at the latest Bureau of Agricultural Economics forecasts and assessments on rural incomes during this year to see where the income increases come from- in which industries- that show a rise of 40 per cent plus in farm income and a rise of 30 per cent plus in constant terms. I cannot see that these figures come from irrigated areas. Obviously those industries that of necessity are labour intensive will not build up these sorts of increases in this year. I appreciate, as do the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Mallee, that the dried fruit industry has performed- and also the Australian Wheat Board- almost above capacity over the years, if it is not rude to say that of both of them, to a far greater extent than perhaps some of the cooperative boards in the dairying industry and elsewhere which have not been as efficient. 
At this stage I think one should stop to question whether these measures will enable the industry to operate in the next decade as well as it has operated in the past few decades. I have already made the point that the dried fruit industry is dealing with its own problems. It equalises the incomes of many of its producers according to the quality of the varieties supplied and handles its own affairs very effectively. Now and again the House should stop to look at the question of whether the system of stabilisation and equalisation really give full merit to the highly efficient producer. There is no earthly use in deceiving ourselves that there is not a need for constant adjustment, both on the decision of the farmer and on occasion by decision of the Government by operating attractive schemes. 
In this day and age there is no such thing as an industry that has to persist because it is there. A holding that has 10 acres today might need IS the day after tomorrow to be productive. That is not necessarily an across the board argument. We always have to be aware that growers must not be locked into, shall we say, a degree of poverty by a stabilisation scheme. This Parliament should not accept that principle. Looking far enough ahead, the acceptance of that principle could be dangerous. Everybody has to adjust. The huge increase in cost input brought about by the three years of the Whitlam Government drove this home more than anything else. I do not say that in any impolite fashion. People on small farms had never experienced this before. They are now posed with the problem of a lifetime investment in vines or trees on which they cannot continue to function at their old level. Their attitude is that therefore the Government is wrong. Honourable members on both sides of the House have to get that clearly into their heads and if need be show some guts sometimes when they are out in these rural areas. It would be unreal for members of this House, from one side or the other, to go out and to adopt the view that due to the largesse of government expenditure, the heavy use of taxpayers' funds, because a farmer is on his property he has more right to be there than a corner shopkeeper. Both have to adjust to the changing circumstances of the day. 
The honourable member for Parramatta is a new voice on horticultural Bills. I thought that about two-thirds of the way through his speech he made a lot of sense and I congratulate him for it. I also congratulate other speakers. I do not want in any way to denigrate the capacity of this industry to look after itself. It has a good record and it will have a good record in the future. It needs some help from overseas storms and frosts and what have you. We know that the present situation may be a bit artificial. I strike the note of warning that a stabilisation scheme coupled with an equalisation scheme should not lock people into a situation in which they are inefficient. I do not mean that they do not work hard; I mean where they have a form of production which means that they cannot operate profitably. That is the final warning note I would sound. 
I congratulate the Government for not including tree fruit products in the provisions of these equalisation Bills. One might well ask why. The honourable member for Parramatta said that these Bills must be good Bills because they are bringing socialism into the country. We could debate whether a co-operative is the final form of free enterprise or indeed whether it is socialism and compare the situation with corporations at great length, but I will not do so now. I think it is proper to compare this scheme with other agricultural schemes the Government has produced recently. The Australian Dried Vine Fruits Corporation joins a list of corporations that are almost coming out of the woodwork at present. I would have liked to have seen a body with such an important sounding tide as 'corporation' have a different implication over the entire crop growing field. I would have liked to have seen this Corporation incorporate the activities of the Aus.tralian Wine Board and all sorts of grape growing activities including the alternative use of grapes over a wide variety of subjects. The record of this Board has been good. Let us take a look at its complement. The size of the old Aus.tralian Dried Fruits Control Board was 1 1 but that number has diminished to eight. As other speakers have said four of those eight members on the new Australian Dried Fruits Corporation will be grower representatives. I think this is a measure of the fact that the industry has done very well by its growers in the past. One should compare this situation with other industries. Growers were upset at the poor performance, in their view, of what was previously the Australian Meat Board. The Meat Board, of course, had a majority of primary producers on it. 
My rural committee fought very hard to bring in the new system. Of course, we had to stand up to thousands of highly irate farmers because, for the first time, with the new information of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation it did not have a majority of grower representatives. Quite frankly I think honourable members must realise- undoubtedly they will in relation to this Bill- that some people are very adequate and expert at producing a commodity but they are not necessarily the right people to help market and sell that commodity. That was why my committee took the view it did on the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. To varying degrees, the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation joins the Australian Dairy Corporation and the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation and one other body whose name does not occur to me at this time. I wish these corporations well. I hope with all my heart that they take into account in the years to come the need to be merciless and the need to take a realistic attitude. They should not prolong agony as a rural attitude. Honourable members opposite may criticise honourable members on this side of the House who are involved in the rural scene. But I think that they should refer to this Government's treatment of the dairy industry in late 1969 and in the early 1970s. What did we do? We propped up the dairy industry with a variety of subsidies. We succeeded in prolonging the individual misery of a whole lot of small dairy farmers for 10 years longer than we needed. On the other hand, I am not in tune with allowing attrition to take place through market forces. 
There is a limit as to how far governments can go. I think one of the roles of governments is to encourage people to work out their own destinies, not to interfere any more than they have to. Governments should encourage growers or their sons to realise that, for instance, when time is running out on a five-acre dried fruit block they should be thinking about getting into an area that is more productive and more satisfying for them and for the industry. I support the Bill, in spite of the theorising I have gone on with today and I think it is important to do that from dme to time. I wish the new Corporation the best of fortune in its work on behalf of the industry. 
-I call the honourable member for Fadden. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Order! I invite the Minister to cease interjecting and the honourable member for Capricornia to address the Chair. 
This insensitive implementation of presentable policies has created an intolerable backlog in housing provision, leaving thousands of Aboriginal families with no shelter. Under this Government, there is an eight-year waiting list for Aboriginal housing loans. The Minister tells us every week about Aboriginal consultation and assistance programs. What does he do in reality? He got rid of the consultative body for Aboriginal housing, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Housing Panel. Again, the Opposition believes that the Minister has nothing to be proud of. Even the highest need area of Aboriginal Affairs is not immune to the scandals of this Government There has been no tendering for housing contracts, and we have seen intimidation of housing association employees by a company in the electorate of the Prime Minister attempting to exchange VIP treatment for a building contract, the advance supplying of lists of housing associations with building requirements to that firm following intervention by the Prime Minister- a practice that has no precedent- 
The Minister knew about the firm being in financial difficulties, just as he knew that in 1975 the appalling constructions of Stawell Timber Industries Pty Ltd were brought to the attention of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and just as he has received nothing but complaints about the company and about its flimsy constructions. Yet the Minister has allowed that same company to be given a list of housing associations this year so that it can rip off the Aboriginal people for the flimsy funds that they get from the Australian Government. Is this what the Minister means by the achievements of this Government?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a statutory declaration which relates to the guarantees offered by the Prime Minister to Stawell Timber Industries, the building company based in his electorate. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I call the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
-Order! I ask the honourable member for Ballarat to resume his seat. Three speakers have been heard in complete silence. At least one of the honourable members interjecting has already made his speech. I ask honourable members to keep quiet while the fourth  speaker  is addressing the Chair. 
I point out in passing that most of these schemes were not opposed, either in purpose or form, when the relevant legislation was introduced and debated in this House in years past, and that certainly is the case in relation to the schemes about which the Opposition has launched an attack today- schemes in which the officials who administer them have a very considerable degree of autonomy. All of these schemes are administered by men of high reputation and integrity and many of them are career public servants. Is the Opposition saying today that these people are under a cloud so far as their honesty and integrity are concerned? If so, I am sure that the persons concerned would welcome the accusations being made outside this House, but I am afraid that that is not going to happen because honourable members opposite know full well that such insinuations are entirely without foundation. They do not have the intestinal fortitude to get out from under the cloak of parliamentary privilege- a privilege that they are continually and progressively abusing in this place. 
The Labor Party knows that it has got the skids under it throughout the community and it knows that nowhere is this more evident than in Victoria. Facing a State election, it is obviously getting desperate. Apparently it will not desist from stooping to the lowest possible depths in an attempt to retrieve the situation. If it thinks it will have any success through these tactics it has gravely misread the mood, the intelligence and above all the sense of fair play of the Australian people. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I cannot see that there is any point of order at this stage. The honourable the Minister would have a chance later in the debate to explain any discrepancy. 
As any honourable member knows, the headline of any newspaper has nothing to do with the journalist who writes the story. That is a matter for the sub-editors and editors of a newspaper. So too is the editorial. It is unreasonable and foolish to argue that the journalist concerned should have read to the Minister the editorial and the front page lead headline of the  Australian Financial Review  when, in fact, she was reading the story to him. The clear import of the story was that the Minister had sought, with the oil companies concerned, to play down the serious question concerning Australia 's imported oil supplies. The Minister, to save himself, has impugned the integrity of an honest journalist who honestly put a story to him. He denied the report. He denied the accuracy of the story. He then shifted his ground to say that he denied only the headline in the editorial but not the accuracy of it, and it is the accuracy of the story that is the damning factor about this whole question. This man in my view has blatantly misled Parliament, and any fair assessment by any other honourable member will lead him precisely to the same conclusion. 
What are the issues involved here? They are simply that the Minister, for reasons best known to himself, decided that the Australian public should not know the real issues concerning imports of Australian oil and the problem facing the Australian refining industry and the Australian motoring and consuming public. He believed, apparently, that the Iranian problem would go away. He wanted to contain the matter within the oil companies. The oil companies then sought to recover from the Prices Justification Tribunal a premium that was being charged on official Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' prices because of the scarcity problem. They went there to recover 0.7 of one per cent of the wholesale price. The Tribunal stood the inquiry over but said that it did not believe that the supply question was a serious consideration. The company then telexed the Minister, repeating all these terms such as 'play down' and 'undertakings' which he had concocted with them, and requiring of him that, as the official Minister of the Government, he intercede either directly or indirectly through another department, with the PJT to apprise it as Caltex requested- the word is 'apprise'- of the issues surrounding the real supply crisis and how the companies were entitled to fix the precedent of recovery of premiums above the OPEC price. 
We have that request being made and the Government going ahead with it- all this in the face of answers to questions, put earlier by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  that there was nothing to worry about; that there was absolutely no problem concerning oil supplies in Australia. We find that just some weeks before Caltex was discounting up to 1 8 cents per gallon, not 0.7 of one per cent, below the official PJT wholesale price, but that this was terminated by agreement between the companies on 13 March. We find that they were then going to threaten the Commonwealth Government with the diversion of oil cargoes from the Middle East because they could not recover 0.7 of one per cent. The Minister complied with this tactic. 
We are told in the newspaper story that he said- it is reported accurately; the story was put to him and he corroborated it- that the Caltex argument had merit. So he complied with the tactics of the oil companies. That is the charge against this Minister. He has not denied the charge. Perhaps it is not true to say that he has not denied it. He denied it at Question Time but has gone back on that denial. His whole defence now concerns whether or not 'play down' or 'undertakings' or any of the import of the story, are in fact accurately portrayed in the 'hush up' headline on the front page, or the editorial on the second page. How fatuous and how tragically pathetic a defence that is from a Minister of the Crown. 
This Government has no honour. Ministers endeavour to cling to their perks, to their cars, to all the perks of office and to stay in the Government. This is not the Parliament of Westminster; that much is obvious. If it had been, Government Ministers would have done the honourable thing and resigned. This Minister is not going to resign. He is going to talk his way out of it, like the proverbial talking head that he is. He will try to go all the way, but we have found that this man, the Minister for National Development, has been marked negotiable by the oil companies of this country; that he is a dog-eared cheque for Australian business. That is the reality of his position in the Government, and by threatening to divert cargoes and having the Minister cave in - 
-Order! I did not quite understand what the honourable member said but I rather gathered that he ought perhaps to withdraw it. 
The other factor concerns the International Energy Agency. The Minister and the Government probably through the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he was overseas- we do not know what he does when he is away- got us caught up in the International Energy Agency. We have heard a lot about how good that is for research and development as well as for information. The Minister tells us that every time he is in a public forum, but he will not tell us, he never mentions, that we are caught up in the emergency oil sharing arrangements of the International Energy Agency. Those arrangements are assessed upon the consumption by a country of hydrocarbons, of petroleum, not the level of its imports which, in Australia's case is small, representing only 30 per cent. It is assessed upon total consumption, so countries which are more dependent upon imports are assessed more fairly and treated better under the arrangements than are the countries with a major reliance upon indigenous petroleum resources. 
Therefore, in the assessment Australia will suffer, compared with other countries. As soon as the shortfalls in cargoes show up, when stocks and inventories are run down, when oil prices play havoc on the world oil scene, when Iran's production fails to regain its peak levels, we will find that the International Energy Agency's grip will tighten on Australia. Then we will not only be in the position of seeing our cargoes of imported crudes diverted to other countries but we could be in the very parlous position of exporting indigenous crude to other countries of the International Energy Agency. 
These are all important factors. Have we heard anything from the Government concerning them? We have heard not a word in the Parliament or anywhere else. All of this is done in secret, behind closed doors in the Minister's offices, with the oil companies. They know all about it. The public does not, nor does the Parliament. When a journalist writes a story to bring the matter into the open she is besmirched, virtually branded a liar, by the Minister in his condemnation of her- when we know clearly that one word from him would have been enough to deter publication of the story. That is the real import of the story. They are the real charges against him. 
Under the International Energy arrangements Australia has to effect a five per cent reduction in its consumption. How such a reduction will be effected we do not know. The Government has neither an energy nor a conservation policy. It has relied exclusively on price, on slugging the motorist, hoping that he will not pay the extra 50 odd cents a gallon for petrol. That is the only conservation effect. We have heard nothing from the Minister about a conservation policy. No direct controls have been introduced. The Minister says that he has a policy. He has no policy. As I said to him earlier tonight, he is all tip and no iceberg. He is all front, all show. There is no substance to him or to his policy whatsoever. 
We on this side of the House believe that the Australian public is entitled to know whether Australia is in a parlous energy position. According to telexes floating between companies and the Minister, we are in a difficult position. The Minister denies that that is the case. He thinks that I have been unfair with him. He thinks that the Opposition has been unfair with him. He says that the stories are incorrect, that the journalist was not right, that the  Australian Financial Review  was unfair. The telex is available. It is available to the  Australian Financial Review.  The telex will probably be published. We have seen and heard extracts from it. But the telex is in the hands of that newspaper, and I can say that the Minister will be exposed when the telex is published. Companies do not fancifully send to Ministers telexes which talk about undertakings or agreements to play down the situation if such agreements were never made or if such undertakings were never sought or given. No company sends incomprehensible telexes to Federal Ministers on an issue which affects its own commercial life and in a business in whose proceedings the Minister is constantly involved. 
It is clear that the telex is authentic, that the import of the telex is as it says. But it is crazy to rely upon the proposition that an oil hush-up is not a play-down, or that undertakings were not given, or that the company should not tell the public the real situation, especially when one considers that the Government is now contemplating a $17m conservation publicity program. Yet the Minister will not come clean and tell the public of the parlous position in which we find ourselves. We are even told that Cabinet has already rejected the $ 17m conservation publicity program proposal. I do not know whether that is true; I have heard that it is true. If it is true, it makes a complete mockery of the Government's position. The Minister, if not the Government, intends spending on a publicity campaign more than he does on energy research and development. He intends to do that without looking at any of the administrative or direct controls available to him by way of a conservation program. I refer to such things as requiring the Australian motor vehicle manufacturers to meet certain standards. 
Henry Ford in an interview which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  just two days ago said, when talking about the costs imposed on the United States motor vehicle industry, that the United States fleet hoped to reach 27.5 miles per gallon consumption average by 1985. What standards do we have in this country? All we have in this country is a growing demand for petroleum. When that demand is compared with that of similar countries, we find in those countries not only a slower rate of growth than our own but also an actual reduction in the absolute demand for petroleum products. We have seen no such policy implemented by this Government. Instead of that the Minister talks about the need for bipartisanship in energy policy. He attacks me and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  on any private platform, in front of any group of businessmen, by saying in a bleeding heart fashion: 'I want a bipartisan energy policy'. All he wants is his cosy little arrangements with the oil companies. Such arrangements have the effect of fattening the pockets of the oil companies at the expense of the Australian motorists. When he is found out, he does not do the decent thing, as most Ministers would do, and resign immediately; instead he comes into the chamber and tries to brave face it. The Government intends to crush our efforts by using its numbers. 
Many questions were asked in the House today on this issue both from the Opposition side and from the Government side. Great interest was shown in it. The Government would not have a debate on it. It has brought on the debate tonight, believing that as it is 9.30 p.m. most of the newspaper reporters have gone to bed and that any damage which is inflicted on the Government during the debate will not show up in tomorrow's Press. There are a few Government members in the House. The Government Whip is probably beating them off at the door to keep them out so that neither I nor any other Opposition speaker has a full House to which to outline the real gravamen of the issues which involve a senior Minister in the Government who holds an important economic portfolio and whose position in the Fraser Ministry is up for grabs. 
Where is the Prime Minister when one of his Ministers is seriously under attack and is asked to resign by the Opposition, the alternative Government? Where is he? He is probably listening like 'keyhole Jack', as usual, to the intercom located under his desk. He never fronts up. The false and fleeting Fraser never comes into the chamber when such matters are raised. He is always locked up in his office, listening in from there. He is never game to front. There is not a soul on the Government benches. Government will not stand behind the Minister to defend him. We will see the truth of my remarks by observing whether they come to the chamber. 
The issue simply is this: Was the story that Judith Hoare wrote correct? Did the Minister say to her that it was a good story? Did he corroborate the story? If he did, and he has now denied this story in Parliament, he has misled Parliament. If he has misled Parliament, he is duty bound to do the honourable thing and to resign his commission with the Governor-General. That is what he is obliged to do. That is the simple issue. The telex is available; the story was written from the telex. It can be corroborated. It is only a matter of time before the telex is published and the source of it is revealed. The Minister cannot effect a flimsy escape by talking about hush-ups or the fact that he did not approve the editorial. What politician has ever had the right to ask a journalist what the editorial of his or her newspaper will be the next day and to have it read to him? What a stupid, foolish defence to be advanced by this Minister who does not have the decency or the gumption to resign his commission. 
I wind up on this point: We on this side of the House have looked at this issue fairly. We have looked at all of the issues, but we find the Minister wanting. We find the members of the Government front bench wanting. They tried to kill the matter at Question Time and they tried to kill it in the chamber later this afternoon. It would not go away because today we found out that the journalist had, in fact, corroborated the story. We also found out that the Minister apparently denied that the person concerned had corroborated the story and that he had said that he did not approve the headline of the editorial. We simply say to the Minister, to his colleagues in the Fraser Ministry, and to the Prime Minister that the Minister should do the decent thing and resign. If he is not decent enough to do that when he is found to have misled the Commonwealth Parliament, at least the Prime Minister should determine his commission. If he is not decent enough to do that, the Cabinet should do it for him. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It is proper that I should remind the House that this Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill relates to a hardwood agreement between the Commonwealth and Tasmania. I think it is important to make the point that this scheme applies only to Tasmania. It does not apply to any- mainland State. I take this as significant, because the Government and Government members, particularly those from Tasmania, have taken a great interest in Tasmania. Might I add that this is probably the first time in living memory that governments have taken such an interest in a single State and in its disadvantages. I just touch on an overall disadvantage that might concern Tasmania. I refer immediately to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. If there is a deficiency in the standard of living in a State, that State has a perfect right to be a claimant State under the Commonwealth Grants Commission. That is the answer to a lot of the contentions that have been put before the House this afternoon. 
I believe that  Sir Bede  Callaghan, when he brought down these recommendations, looked at Tasmania because of its peculiar soil and climatic conditions as being a proper State in which the Federal Government could instigate this particular trial process. Many States, I think, would like to have the depth and richness of soil and the climatic conditions for the growing of softwoods, hardwoods and all sorts of other agricultural products that Tasmania has as its right and as its potential. Many people, including myself, will look on this trial in Tasmania with a great deal of interest. One of my aims in my retirement,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is to do as you suggested a little while ago and that is to plant hardwoods on the area of land I control in the Adelaide Hills of South Australia. It it a wish of mine to try to do so. I will be watching the species planted under similar climatic conditions in Tasmania with a great deal of interest in my own right. This leads me to the next logical conclusion. I believe the Commonwealth will look at the success of this small trial scheme in Tasmania with a great deal of interest to see whether, specifically, the Commonwealth ought to move into hardwood plantings in other States of Australia. 
I notice that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in his speech pointed out the proper connection between softwoods and hardwoods as an environmental aspect which must be noted. As a practical observer, might I tell the honourable member for Scullin and you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I have been terribly impressed in recent years to see what a close association there is between- if I might use the term- unnatural softwoods, in other words, imported species planted for softwood production and natural hardwoods in many areas of Australia. This is rather similar to the fact that in many areas of Australia the kangaroo population has increased in leaps and bounds, might I say, because of the provision of dams and waterholes spread throughout the length and breadth of this country. I also notice that the parrot population and many indigenous bird life species have increased in spite of the planting of softwoods in some areas. 
I personally have a horror of living under pine trees. I have done so for quite a period of my life. What a cold, clammy, uninteresting, domineering species they are. They are all encompassing and nothing of any merit will grow under them. They just take over the whole of the soil in which they grow. Personally I have no wish to ever plant softwoods. I have some sympathy for the man in South Australia who went around ringbarking them in the Adelaide Hills a little while ago. It was a terrible thing to do. My horror of softwoods in comparison with hardwoods is to the degree which I have described. I therefore think that any move- this Bill will encourage itthat Australians make in their own right and any interest they have to plant hardwoods is a move in the right direction. As I have said already I, for one, will be doing so when the day comes for my retirement, if not before.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in case you rule me out of order I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the repayments made by the Commonwealth in relation to the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme. 
Leave granted. 
The document read as follows- 
Since the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme was introduced by the present Commonwealth Government the following payments have been made for goods moving northbound from Tasmania to the Mainland up to the end of 
February, 1978. 

<graphic href="113131197903286_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will leave that alone but I think it is proper that the amounts should be put into the  Hansard to  cope with the attack made by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who said that this Government overlooks that State of Tasmania. I leave it at that because I do not wish to grind a political point in relation to it at all. To save the time of the House I will finish off with the point on which I started. This hardwood forestry agreement Bill favours Tasmania. It is the only State in which the Commonwealth Government is involved in such a scheme. The freight equalisation scheme, which has saved millions of dollars for all sorts of industries in Tasmania, is a scheme that solely affects Tasmania. Other honourable members have mentioned the assistance which has been given to the Mount Lyell mining operations. Again, that assistance is solely for the benefit of the State of Tasmania. Anyone who denies that this Government is interested in these sorts of schemes as they affect Tasmania ought to have a rational look at them. I do not believe that politically it is possible to deny that the Government is interested in Tasmania, nor do I think it is possible for Tasmanians to be unaware of the great attention and interest that this Government shows in that State. The Government Parties rural committee which I chair is one committee that goes to Tasmania. We have looked at the forestry potential in that State. I commend the Federal Government and the Tasmanian Government for bringing down this forestry agreement Bill. 
-Order! The honourable member for Melbourne will resume his seat. I call the honourable member for Burke. 
I agree with so much that my friend, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin),  has said on several occasions that I will have to watch myself. There are areas in relation to which I disagree with him, but he really has done his homework extraordinarily well. I congratulate him on his approach- it is an economist's approach- to the problems of the wine and brandy industry. I will argue with him later on one or two minor points, but the fact is that I find so much that he said to be exactly true in my experience. 
The principal thrusts of the wine grape Bills is to ensure that all grapes that find their way into the wine and distillation industries attract a levy which is used to finance the activities of the Australian Wine Board. With alterations, the Wine Grape Charges Act has been the vehicle for collecting this levy since 1929. The levy is collected at winery or distillery level on grapes used for the purposes I have described. Newer technological advances have led- or, in the case of some of the statements that I am about to make, will lead- to grapes of different varieties being stored in a number of forms. That means that single strength, concentrate and, I believe in some cases, powdered grape juice will in the future form a variety pool from which smaller wineries and other wineries can order varieties to make up their budgetary shortfalls towards the end of the season and thus replenish or reorientate to the demand that those wineries are experiencing. That is the direction in which the new technology is going. This is part of the reason for the introduction of the Bills that we are considering this evening. 
The decision as to where such grape derivative is used is not in many instances made at the stage of grape intake. It may well be that, from the pool of grape juice or concentrate, firms will draw variety juice such as shiraz, malbec, riesling, et cetera, to make up any shortfall in their own budget planning. Nowadays, if a wine maker is short of a certain variety for blending or other purpose, he can overcome that shortfall. So I repeat that the commercial position as to the end use of different varieties held within pools is not necessarily made at the time of the intake of grapes. Likewise, such pool juice can be held at the winery at which it is eventually used for distillation or wine making purposes. Of course, alternatively in some of the bigger wineries that juice can be retained and used in the manufacture of grape juice. That does not attract a levy under these Bills. 
The operation of the Wine Grape Charges Act, as I understand it and its associated legislation, will continue until the end of the financial year, after which it will in effect be replaced by the Wine Grapes Levy Act. Other matters touched on by these Bills include an updating of the conditions, penalties, et cetera, currently applicable to other industries and the machinery to allow rebates in instances of over payment of the levy. 
The honourable member for Werriwa dealt with the statistics- I will not repeat them- in relation to both wine exports and brandy sales overseas. There are one or two things that need to be said. All is not gloom on the wine situation today. For instance, a Victorian firm- I think it is the concern of a  Mr Murphy-  is currently taking 10,000 gallons of bulk red wine and 10,000 gallons of white wine from the Riverland area per month and selling it overseas. He has mounted, for the first time in the United Kingdom, casks as a means of selling wines to British people. It should be borne in mind that people in America, France, the Continent and England, still think that wine should come in bottles and that any other type of container might taint the product. I anticipate that, through building his casks in London and shifting wine over in bulk, this trade and trade like it can continue to expand over many years. 
What is the reason for this,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? The reason for these new sale techniques and these new organisations is quite clearly the Federal Government's export expansion incentives, without which that sort of trade probably would have not got off the floor. I instance that as just one of many projects that are currently in operation. I do so only because the honourable member for Werriwa has reminded me of the falling statistics pertaining to export wine over some years in various countries such as Canada and America. I think that the bottom has been reached. I believe that we should take advantage of our own technology and our own use of bulk wines, which always in my house seem to attract the attention and credit of overseas visitors as being very adequate at a price. I believe that only Bulgarian white wines sold on the United Kingdom market will be able to undersell us in any particular way. So this Government- although, as honourable members will know, I am not altogether pleased with its action in terms of increase in excise as it affects the brandy industry- has something on which to hang its hat and some credit that it can claim. The honourable member for Werriwa is then game enough- and I congratulate him on his courage- to mention the pricing arrangement for grapes. For some time now many people- and I am thinking of Treasury departmental peoplehave been very angry at what they regard as the over pricing of grapes from wine grape growers to the market. Of course, the only statutory control on this that I am aware of is the statutory control in South Australia by the Prices Commissioner. The honourable member for Werriwa was properly courageous in mentioning it. He was also properly sensible in not continuing his argument too far from that. I will oblige him and do so. 
For some years now the South Australian Government, with the best will in the world, with a heart that frankly was too soft, has succeeded in centring the whole surplus in Australia of grapes in South Australia and, indeed, in the Riverland area. As I look at the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  let me remind the House that just over the border from Riverland one major firm is currently buying brandy type grapes at two prices. One price is for use in the white wine field, where there is a shortfall of grapes, particularly as gordos were knocked back considerably by heat and unseasonable conditions when they were in strong demand. So doradillos and grapes of that nature are being bought in Mildura at two prices- one price for white wine manufacture, which is a perfectly respectable price, and a lower price for use in the distillation industry. In the honourable member's area, brandy is now being made because of the problems of lack of economy of scale for other firms in South Australia. One can buy at two prices in Victoria. I suppose one can buy at any price there and in New South Wales. But in South Australia one does not have that capacity. So it is rather like labour costing itself out of the market over the last two years, or over the last five year thanks to the Whitlam Government. It is rather similar to that situation. In South Australia, in comparison with any other State, the price of grapes has been set at a level that is too high. Now, I suppose I am being as courageous as the honourable member for Wakefield in pointing that out to this House because small farmers on IS acres irrigated or whatever need every penny that they can get for their produce. They have not got the fat to fight off times when rain hits their grapes. They do not have the fat to ride out a slump in the market. Of course it is for this reason, historically, that over the years the wine grape industry has used the brandy industry for two real reasons. The first is cyclical imbalance that occurs every now and again because brandy and spirit is cheaply and readily stored and, secondly, in seasons like this last one when rain hit the grape crop. Governments, I suppose, cannot be expected to realise that when grapes split due to the ravages of rainfall, frankly they are not very good for use in the wine industry to make quality wine. In that instance we need to have a distillation side of an integral industry. That perpetually has been my problem with both governments. The Labor Government put up brandy excise by 231 per cent. This Government has put it up by 84 per cent. Neither of them could be made to see that there are very good and sound reasons why a spirit and brandy industry must exist to make an efficient wine industry. I do not know what to make of the Industries Assistance Commission which is there, as far as my growers are concerned, to assist industry. The Commission perpetually blinds itself with science to the degree where it does the opposite in all its recommendations towards this particular industry. When I look around me at some sympathetic faces I do not believe that that is the only rural industry that feels that way. Let us be quite fair about it. A big percentage of people in Australia today in rural areas and in rural industries look for assistance from the Industries Assistance Commission. They do not look on it, as a Minister from South Australia described it recently in the Press, as a joke in poor taste visited on the industry. It puts me in a difficult position. I am here because I believe that the Industries Assistance Commission is a vital part of efficient government for the future. But I note in passing, that a high percentage of people today, in those sorts of industries, can see no rhyme or reason in what that Commission tends to recommend. To them it amounts to the opposite of assistance to that rural industry. 
The honourable member for Werriwa then spoke of spirit. I do not know that he used the word spirit. I think he meant that the projected demand from Portugal for Australian spirit exported to that market was for fortification purposes and was primarily used in fortified wine production in that country. This in itself is quite an interesting story. Admittedly the honourable member for Werriwa was correct when he said that the industry single-handed could not quite meet the price that was offered. But, my word, it was not far away. It would not have taken governments or proprietary firms a lot of imagination to help quit- if it is the role of governments and of the IAC to disband the production of spirit in this country- or meet that deal. The previous year the European Economic Community, by a series of mechanisms which I will not go into, succeeded in stopping any possibility of that particular deal in a nice display of community selfishness. So Portugal bought spirit with a fundamental source of sucrose from the sugar beet industry. The Portugese are not happy with it. They want spirit with the basic ingredient of fructose which is a form of fruit sugar. The whole of the brandy stock for six years that will stop distillaries buying Australian grapes for that purpose for some years to come, could indeed have been lifted into Portugal this year with a little bit more help and management from various sections of the industry. One of the tragedies as I see it is that nothing has been done about the situation. It looks as though we will not meet that particular situation. 
The honourable member for Werriwa also mentioned the Australian Wine Board in relation to the levies collected under these four Bills for use in promoting exports and for other purposes. I hope that a committee which is currently sitting and looking at future functions of the Wine Board will complete its work in due course and that we will find a restructured form of the Australian Wine Board in the future. 
I think the House will remember that when the dried fruit corporation legislation was mooted I for one thought that it was a retrogressive step. Surely if we are going to form something as highfalutin as a corporation, it should include the industry of grape growing, not just one section of it like dried fruit production. It should have encompassed the lot, including grape juice, nonalcoholic wines and everything else, if for no other reason than this: If honourable members had represented the wine industry for as long as I have then they would be subjected to the following pulls, namely, the grape growers, State governments, Federal governments, proprieties, co-operatives, dried fruit producers and, more latterly, the increasing sale trend of grape juice itself. There is no possibility of getting them talking with one common voice and of putting forward the interests of grape growers to governments. In passing, I do regret that the Government formed a separate corporation for the dried fruit industry when it could have encompassed other sections of the industry. However, I look forward to taking part a little in any future restructuring of the Australian Wine Board which I think will occur. I add that comment to the comments of the honourable member for Werriwa in relation to the Australian Wine Board. 
Let me in the few minutes remaining, touch once again on the surplus of grapes in Australia and why that occurs. I did not complete my remarks. Quite apart from cycles of overproduction which I think occurs in any industry from time to time, I have already dealt with the actions of the Prices Commissioner in South Australia in setting a price in the lean years or in years when demand is stronger than supply. That price becomes the accepted price level across State boundaries. But, of course, when the opposite trend occurs there is no way that the current situation can hold. So we see today, as we saw last year in States other than my own State of South Australia, wine grape producers selling grapes consequentially below the declared price in South Australia. Let us take another example which the honourable member for Werriwa used. He pointed to the new technique of making white wine from shiraz grapes and other forms of red grapes. For example one should pick them early enough, take the skin off them quickly enough and carbonate to remove the colour. I do not think carbonate is quite the right word. But one can only do this if one can buy a supply of red grapes cheaply enough. One cannot pay premium prices for red grapes and then try to turn those into a white type of wine that really is only a filling variety. It is not a variety with the character that one wants in white wines. Even in that case, unfortunately, South Australia has done its best to make sure that people go and purchase shiraz grapes or whatever from anywhere other than the Riverland area. Harness that to the fact that two Labor Governments, with Steele Hall in between, have given water licences to huge firms that could have been controlled. This has caused an increase in the production of grapes in the Riverland area that more than compensates for the current surplus. 
Debate interrupted. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Primary Industry by referring to the successful signing of the Israel-Egypt Treaty and the consequential large volume of aid that evidently is to flow to that area. Has the Government any details of the type of United States aid that is anticipated, and does the Minister foresee Public Law 480 or any other United States credit facilities unduly cutting across Australian exports to this area? 
-Order! The honourable members 's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has made his speech and it was received in quietness. I ask him to return the same courtesy to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
Another aspect of national interest lies in the need to ensure that we can play our part in making international commodity agreements or national marketing schemes work properly. We need export controls to enable that to happen. We must be able to protect the Australian environment, and in some cases we need controls to do that. Again, for strategic reasons, for defence reasons, we need to exercise control over some exports. Similarly, we need to ensure adequate supplies of materials for domestic requirements or to guarantee adequate supplies of basic raw material for existing refineries or smelters. For all these reasons, the Australian Government must be able to exercise control over exports. What is under discussion and what we will be discussing further with the States is what is required in the mineral area to ensure that the national interest is protected in relation to commercial considerations. 
We now come to the question of the guidelines that I introduced in October last year. It has been most unfortunate that there has been so much misunderstanding about these guidelines and especially about the way in which they differ from export controls, as such. To many people, the terms 'export controls ' and 'guidelines ' mean exactly the same thing. Of course they do not mean the same thing. Export controls have existed for many years and for the reasons that I have just mentioned. The October guidelines simply said, in essence, that companies, instead of seeking export approval after negotiating a contract, should consult with the Government and obtain approval of the terms and conditions to be aimed at before starting negotiations. Why was it necessary to do this? As I have said on many occasions, and as the Prime Minister has said, the guidelines were introduced at a time of particular difficulty. In my statement to the House on 24 October last year, I said: 
. we are facing a situation where buyers are imposing settlements on individual sellers which are less than could reasonably be expected in the market situation ... we are facing the results of a fundamentally changed market situation. There is a situation of depressed demand and of serious overcapacity among the major suppliers of bulk minerals- particularly iron ore and coal . . . 
That is the background against which I introduced the guidelines in October. They were designed to strengthen the negotiating position of Australian mineral exporters in a situation of particular difficulty. They were designed, and this is most important, to bring about a degree of co-ordination amongst our exporters so that in these particular circumstances they could better respond to the co-ordinated buying methods of their customers. The guidelines were designed in these circumstances to better protect Australia's interests and to produce a more effective operation of export controls in the national interest. In the iron ore negotiations carried out under the guidelines, very satisfactory results were achieved. The negotiations were completed smoothly, with real goodwill and in record time. The annual negotiations for iron ore and coal were concluded quickly under these arrangements and on the whole, the outcome could be thought of as satisfactory, particularly when the very difficult world situation is taken into account. 
I say again that the guidelines were introduced to meet a particular situation. I have also said on a number of occasions that if the market situation were to change, if pressures on our exporters were to ease, then there would be no need to have the guidelines operating. Certainly I have never believed that the guidelines should operate if there is no need for them and I have made that clear on many occasions. In fact, I do not give a tinker's cuss whether we have a particular set of guidelines so long as we have a system that works and that properly and effectively protects Australia's interests. If there is a better system, then let us have it. If there is a better way of protecting the national interest, then let us do it that way. The whole purpose of the discussions that we will be holding with the States is to work out the best way of protecting Australia's interests. 
I can assure the Labor Party that whatever the outcome of the present consideration of this matter, this Government will not tolerate the kind of approach that was taken by the Australian Labor Party when it was in office. Under Labor the national interest was betrayed. Mineral development in this country was completely sabotaged. As soon as I took over the portfolio of trade and resources after the 1975 general election, I acted to get rid of the heavy-handed, autocratic doctrinaire system that had operated under Labor. That was a system which saw direct government involvement, with matters reaching the stage where, on one occasion, the Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy actually went to Tokyo and conducted the negotiations himself. Under Labor, the normal treatment when commercially negotiated contracts were presented to the Government for approval was that the Australian exporters were told: 'Go back and do better'. There was no consultation or guidance, other than this directive. At that time, nearly every shipment of minerals leaving this country had to have individual approval. The approval virtually had to come from the Minister's office. This led to terrible delays, to confusion, to frustration and to absolute annoyance on the part of the Australian mining industry. I put a stop to all that. I then removed export controls from a large number of minerals where there was obviously no need for such controls. 
-Order! The honourable member for Blaxland will cease interjecting. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I address my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Following discussions with him, can he give me any assurance that the re-transmission of cricket tests and other cricket matches can be provided to country people in the many instances in which the Australian Broadcasting Commission provides the sole television signal? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Fraser Government's overseas borrowings of more than $4 billion. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


 - Mr Speaker, I address a question to you on the subject of the workings of legislation committees. Are you aware that last night a very competent legislation committee met on the important Customs Amendment Bill? Are you also aware that the latter half of the evening was disrupted by the calling of quorums and repeated divisions?  Mr Speaker,  will you consult with the Government and the Opposition with a view to reaching a form of agreement that will immunise, as far as possible, the working of legislation committee meetings from disruption to their consideration. 
-Order! The honourable member may not refer to the Prime Minister as Malcolm. 
Overall staffing levels will be determined in the light of need. Although there may be both increases and decreases in particular areas of administration as workloads vary, the initial process of streamlining has now been substantially  completed and in general there will be a stability in the service. 
This Bill is presented not to apply the philosophy of voluntary retirements- the Government may not get an argument from this side of the House against the implementation of such a philosophy- but as a devious concept, with the sting in the tail, to apply a set of circumstances to individuals who bow to the pressures of the Government whether they be in a Government department or a Commonwealth authority, all of whom day after day are stood over by the Government in the carrying out of their duties. I refer to Telecom Australia, Australia Post and other authorities which have quite coincidentally adopted the staff levels that the Government has applied. 
In the event of industrial disputation, such as we have in Australia Post, the philosophy of the Government applies once again. It is not left to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to resolve the dispute because by instruction and pressure from the Government the dispute is taken out of that area. I have often thought that the mateship principle, that great Aussie characteristic, has been overplayed in this country. I rather believe that the basic selfishness engendered by pressure from the Government, rather than the sugar-coated myth of mateship, operates when people are competing for jobs. If I am wrong and the spirit of mateship is a driving force in Australian life, in our homes and work places, then this Bill can be seen as a monstrous attempt by the Government to destroy that force. I am now referring to the great appeal provision in the Bill. Here we have a Bill which forcibly redeploys and, I suggest, in practice will forcibly retire public servants whose only means of saving their jobs, saving their careers, saving the income which maintains their families and lifestyles, is to appeal against the declaration which renders them redeployed or retired. But in an appeal, the victim must involve his or her work mates by seeking an alternative employee in the same section to receive the declaration. The only way an employee can escape the arbitrary powers of this Bill, as I indicated before, is by dobbing in his work mate. We have to realise that this is a disgusting and disgraceful position for a government to put its workers in. It is callous, brutal and insensitive- three words which appropriately sum up what this Government is all about- and is carried out very effectively by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is seated at the table. I will return to this point later. 
I would like to analyse the motivation for this Bill. It is motivated by the basic philosophy behind the Government's inexorable aim since it stole government in 1975 which simply put, is to put endlessly increasing profits into the pockets of people who own and control and to ensure that the Public Service is going to be the 'whipping horse' of all the people whom the Government represents on that side of the House. So far as the Opposition is concerned, profits are soaring not only in the private sector but also among our authorities for Telecom also is in the business of making a profit. When we seek to analyse what is happening in both areas, we find once again a tax on the employees who are making those profits. The Government has been dedicated to this philosophy since it took office of applying pressure to the Public Service. It seeks to make it the 'whipping horse ' and to hold it out as the scapegoat for the Government's incompetence. Since this Government took office it has handed out investment allowances and massive profits to Government friends and sacked hundreds of thousands of workers whose place in the economic cycle has been taken by technology; but it has totally disregarded where we go from this point. 
So far as the Public Service is concerned, surely the Government has a responsibility not to enlarge the ranks of the unemployed. The Government has a responsibility to the young people of this country to create training facilities and employment opportunities in the Public Service but not by throwing on the scrap heap those who are 55 years of age or thereabouts. In the climate that has been developed through the application of the economic policies of this Government, there is nowhere that a sacked 55-year old person can go. The question of taking away the livelihood of people in the work force and pressuring them into a situation so that they become one of the large group of people out there, hanging out like granny's tooth, suffering the indignity - 
All that I have said is relevant to the Bill before us because this Government has seen the Public Service as an albatross around the neck of private industry, a drain on the profitability of its friends. It has gone against all the principles of government spending in an unemployment environment by cutting back consistently in the public sector. 
The next Budget strategy will spell out the same approach with the Government putting the squeeze on departments and, by utilising the provisions of this Bill, giving away efficient officers so that it can apply the staff ceilings in the way they have been applied in the past. At a time when the Public Service should be increasing, when money should be made available to local authorities to provide employment on works of public benefit, the Government is forcing its Public Service to operate at skeleton levels and it is undermining the initiative and morale of its work force. 
The Government has imposed staff ceilings on departments, many times arbitrarily, and claimed that these levels can be reached by natural resignations and retirements. But obviously the rate of natural resignation and retirement has not been enough for the squire of Nareen and the other wealthy gentlemen opposite. They have decided to put the screws on their workforce even harder and in the most malicious way imaginable. I cannot think of a better way in which to destroy the morale of the Public Service, whose employees are those for whom the Government ought to have most concern. 
One of the great attractions of the Public Service is destroyed in this Bill. As I have indicated before, the attraction of permanency has been removed. Let us be honest about it; there are many boring jobs in the Public Service, particularly in the early years, and one of its disadvantages is that promotions never really take aptitude and interest into account. A public servant conceivably could go through the normal promotional processes of a career and never do a job which he or she particularly liked or which fully utilised that person's particular talents. Naturally I believe that that does not apply to all public servants. I do not suggest that it' applies even to the majority. However, I do believe that one of the driving forces which leads a person to decide on a Public Service career is the security of permanency. That security, as I said, is destroyed by this Bill. 
The Government is applying in a retrospective way a set of rules that will affect the lives of thousands of people who are working in the Public Service. The effects of compulsory retirement as set out in this Bill will shatter many of the individuals who have budgeted for their future. It is not a question of whether they are efficient or have the capacity to do the job; it is a question of whether they have become redundant by virtue of the fact that there are just too many people in a department or in a particular area. 
The Bill refers to redeployment, but I believe the thrust of the Bill is to reduce the number of public servants. Surely that cannot be denied. I contend that, in a huge mapority of cases, it will be found that no suitable vacancy will be found elsewhere and the employee will be sacked. The euphemism used in the Bill is 'retired'. I have seen exactly the same situation occur in the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. There we saw the same circumstances and the same processes, and the same sugar-coated operation was laid down in regulations that were provided for the purpose of retrenching people when the power houses in Victoria began to shut down to give way to changes in technology. The same sort of situation applied at that time. In the SEC in Victoria a person was confronted with two alternatives. Either he retired or he accepted a job many hundreds of miles away from where he was brought up, had his stakes or lived with his family, in which case he would have to pick up stakes and move to a place where one would not send his worst enemy. I refer to the coalfields around Yallourn. 
The principle in this Bill is the same. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs has been champing at the bit to talk about this wonderful system of appeals. We heard the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  spell out what a wonderful system it is. But it contains that very philosophy of a person having to toe the line, be non-controversial, non-original and prepared to barter with the individual alongside him by saying: 'I should not be sacked; it should be you'. That is a great state of affairs. That builds up a great sense of comradeship and mateship in a work situation which is supposed to be a public service. The power to declare that employees are in excess of requirements is frightening, both  from  the viewpoint of the employees who become its direct victims and for those who remain. Those who remain then have the pressure applied to them. 
Clause 7 also gives frightening powers to the Government and its permanent heads. It outlines the reasons under which an employee may be redeployed or retired and lists, first, the 'in excess' clause and, secondly, physical or mental incapacity. It then lists the most terrifying news for public servants: 'for any other prescribed reason '. Fancy putting that power in the hands of individuals like the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs or the honourable member for Casey. For God's sake, it would be like making friends with a rattlesnake. That power, along with the basic motivation of this Bill, means the end of permanency and the end of the capacity of public servants to see themselves as rendering a service without the fear of people applying undue pressure on them throughout their careers. They should be able to look forward to the end of their working life and not be forced into a situation of premature retirement. People may like all the sop that is being put to them, but if the Government is serious about voluntary retirement it should have introduced that provision in the first instance and given it a trial. If that had worked out there would have been no reason to include the other provisions now contained in the Bill. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a persona] explanation. 
-Order! The honourable member does not need to finish - 
-Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. The honourable member can do without any assistance from honourable members on my right who are entitled to make their own remarks at a later stage. 
Prime Minister knew that he had failed as Treasurer. 
The cut-backs in the urban public transport system allocation were absolutely monstrous and disastrous when one considers that this government says that it is framing a national energy policy. If one says that one is setting about to conserve energy, what system within our society would be more crucial than the system of urban public transport? There is no greater user of energy in this country than the transport system and the only way in which that system can be designed to bring about genuine improvements in terms of the use of energy is by spending more money on public transport. That is the area that the Government singles out for cut-backs of a miserly $20m. The Government is seeking to save that miserly amount of money simply because it has lost all sense of direction. It has lost any sense of where it is going. It is led by a latter day Bligh on a ship which is rudderless and out of action. The circumstances are such that the captain of the ship has been forced to become more and more repressive to keep the troops in line. In every one of the cases where there have been cut-backs it is quite clear that they have been against the will of the Minister concerned. They are not based on the priorities of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  or the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  They are based on the priorities of the Prime Minister, who has his running boy, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  come into the House and give his latest instructions. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I hope that that is not a threat. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill 1979 or the Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill 1979. We are conscious of the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech that the Bills were introduced to specify the existing powers of the Australian Wheat Board to raise moneys by the issue of approved securities and to empower the Minister for Primary Industry to provide a Commonwealth guarantee of repayment in connection with those securities. At first glance, these Bills appear to be merely machinery measures to meet the changed circumstances, that is, the increase in the size of the harvest and the increase in the amount of the money supply at the time. However, I think a lot of people would be justified in claiming that this legislation is indicative of the economic turmoil in which the nation finds itself at present. Put another way, it could be said that the Bills authorise Commonwealth support for the high interest rates that the Australian Wheat Board will have to pay on that portion of its overdraft transferred from the Primary Industry Bank to the private note holders. The Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill amends the present Act to accommodate these changes. 
Contrary to what the honourable member for Maranoa said, the Opposition does not claim that the Bills amount to a new subsidy for the wheat industry, because we are aware that the Australian Wheat Board was already being subsidised through Reserve Bank credit at interest rates lower than those charged by commercial organisations. The only thing the Bills do is make more obvious what applied already. A new element is being brought into these stabilisation Bills, and I will have something to say on that later. 
However, so that the honourable member for Maranoa does not misunderstand me, I say that I have always been a sincere supporter of stabilisation schemes and I have always been conscious of the fact that from time to time such schemes need adjustment to meet changing circumstances. As a matter of fact, in 1976, 1 supported an amendment designed to include the labour component of the owner-operator on the wheat farm being introduced into the index used to vary the annual movement in the home consumption price of wheat. But these amendments have not been introduced to assist the wheat grower so much as to adjust a misjudgment or a laxity on the part of the Government which either underestimated the size of the wheat harvest or failed to provide properly for it. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has often said, blind Freddy could see that it was necessary to rein in the increase in the money supply that this underestimation of the wheat harvest had put on the money market. An amount of $400 m more than was estimated was needed to fund the first advance payment. 
No one can blame the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for this because it sent out signals about the size of the wheat harvest long before the Government took any action to rectify the situation. As a matter of fact, in December, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics publication, Trends, forecast a harvest of 17.5 million bushels. Deliveries reached 18 million bushels. I am not trying to apportion blame but I do want to point out that the main purpose of a stabilisation Bill is to remove uncertainty so that the wheat grower can plan his production over a longer period. 
I believe that what this nation is crying out for at present is honesty in government. Government members should have done something about the situation instead of attempting to blame the Labor Government for every economic ill that this country has to face. The honourable member for Parramatta and the honourable member for Werriwa have already pointed to the great legislation brought in by the Labor Government to the benefit of our rural industry. The Government's attempts to blind the nation to the reality of our economic situation are not working and they will not work in this case either. 
The Bills before the House are directly related to the Government's inability to contain the growth in the money supply within the target set by the Government at the time of the last Budget. But, of course, there is worse to come. What the Government's fiddling around with the mini-Budget will do to primary industry and to other sections of our economy is something that we have yet to face. It might not have been possible to avoid introducing the measures contained in the Bills, but they should have been acted on sooner and they should have been handled in a less messy manner. 
As other Opposition members have said- and I want to emphasise this fact- the high level of wheat deliveries was welcomed by the Opposition. It was welcomed by the wheat industry and no doubt it was welcomed by the Government. But whether we like it or not, such deliveries did bring about an exceptionally large financial requirement on the part of the Australian Wheat Board to meet its first advance payment obligations to wheat growers. They also involved the Australian Wheat Board in the problem of marketing expenses for 1978-79. That situation could not be hidden from the wheat grower and it could not be hidden from the nation because there was a natural delay in the payment of the first advance. The first advance payment was suspended for a period. In the early part of this year,  Senator Walsh  alerted the nation to the fact that the Australian Wheat Board had suspended first advance payments to some growers. The Government failed to respond to this assertion and to questions asked on the matter. In the light of this fact, I think it was futile for the National Country Party to try to make out that the problem did not exist. Under the Fraser Government system of economic management, perhaps these measures were unavoidable. It is unfortunate that these amendments have to be introduced at this point in time because the current wheat plan expires in September 1979. I believe that we should discuss all aspects of a stabilisation scheme at the one time because the amendments introduce a new measure that should not be considered in isolation. Previously, regardless of the size of the wheat harvest, the Wheat Board has always been able to get the full amount of finance necessary to cover the first advance payment. 
Many wheat growers feel that these amendments set up a dangerous precedent. I entirely agree with them because, in spite of what the Minister said in his second reading speech about the Government's specifying only those powers that the Wheat Board already has, the difference is that the powers have never been used before. On the occasion in question the Wheat Board was forced to use those powers. It had no option but to do that, and I think this is the danger in these amendments. The Wheat Board was forced to borrow outside the Reserve Bank. To entice it to do that the Government agreed to meet the extra cost. If the Wheat Board did this without being forced to do it, it has let the wheat grower down. Once the principle of borrowing money outside the Reserve Bank at higher interest rates is clearly established it will then become a short step, an easy step, for the Government to say: We will no longer meet the extra cost involved '. Any member of the Wheat Board who cannot recognise this danger must be looking at the situation through coloured glasses because any further journey down this road can lead only to higher interest rates for the Wheat Board. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and the honourable member for Maranoa must surely recognise this. 
The wheat growers should never be charged higher interest rates because they often subsidise the Australian wheat consumer. In turn, the Australian wheat consumer has subsidised the wheat grower. Unlike the members of the National Country Party I do not try to make out that something does not exist when it is obvious to everyone that it does exist. I want to prove that the existence of these schemes is justified because, unfortunately, many people regard subsidisation schemes as indicating government support. What such a scheme means is a well-planned system of reciprocal co-operation between the Government, the consumer and the producer which guarantees a home consumption price for wheat consumed in Australia. In the long term this does not penalise the Australian consumer because it often brings about a lower domestic price than the overseas price. I do not have the relevant figures for this year, but I believe that at the present time the overseas price is higher than the domestic price. I remember in 1976 the overseas market price for wheat being $20 per tonne higher than the domestic price. On that occasion the wheat grower was subsidising the home consumer by many hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
The growing and marketing of wheat is no small operation. Since I have been in this Parliament I have represented many wheat growers. I know that they have to face up to bushfires and floods and that they have to make severe physical efforts. Even after they produce and harvest the wheat they have to face up to storage problems, such as weavils, sometimes storms blowing over the silos or whatever method they have of storing the wheat on the land. Their efforts could fail through a number of eventualities. Recently, the amount of work put into wheat growing was brought home to me in no uncertain manner. I attended a ball in a country area and was fortunate enough to stay on a wheat farm. Throughout the night the tractors were ploughing the field. Every son of a farmer seemed to be taller than the last, and they all looked as though they could do a hard day's work. They certainly did that right through the night and into the next day. 
In spite of what the honourable member for Maranoa has said I am very proud to think that the wheat stabilisation scheme was first introduced by the Chifley Government in 1948. It has taken much of the financial risk out of the growing and marketing of wheat. The first advance payment, of course, is a major part of the stabilisation scheme. It is a government's responsibility to see that there is not even a shadow of doubt about its distribution being on time. Any hold up in the distribution of the first advance payment will throw the whole rhythm of the farming operation out of balance. This would mean the difference between success and failure. When the wheat industry is able to produce a record crop there should be no hold up in the first advance payment and there should be no doubt about its availability. If we find that these things occur it amounts to the fact that the grower is being penalised for a great and efficient effort that has brought great benefits to the nation. I believe the Government has a responsibility to proclaim publicly the importance and the great efforts of the wheat industry to the nation. The efficient efforts of the wheat growers have brought about increased yields with improved wheat quality, which this year brought a return of $2,000m and export earnings of $ 1 ,800m. On my retirement from this Parliament I hope that no honourable member will let the Wheat Board travel any further along this road of borrowing money outside the Reserve Bank. If it does that it will lead only to higher interest rates for the wheat grower. 
-Order! I warn the honourable member for Fremantle that he may not reflect on another member of the House. I do not ask him to withdraw. I merely ask him to watch his language. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that in this financial year it seems likely that there will be a shortfall of more than $25m, in other words, 50 per cent, in the 1978 Budget estimate for the increase in excise revenue on Australian spirits? Can the Treasurer explain to me the sense in an excise policy which does not achieve its revenue aim on the one hand and which at the same time inadvertently cripples a portion of the grape growing industry? Would he look to maximising his own yield to the benefit of both the Government and the industry? 
-Order The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am very pleased that the Opposition does not intend to divide the House on these Bills because for the life of me I could not understand from the Opposition's new spokesman on agricultural matters, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  what he was complaining about. In fact, for the first part of his speech he seemed to me to be debating in support of most of the Government's measures. At any rate, I congratulate him on leading for the Opposition in this area. It reminds me very much of a very famous former Leader of the Opposition, the late Arthur Calwell, who once said to the Prime Minister of the time, having dealt with the reason why all Service chiefs belonged to a different order from the one in which they fought during the war, that he appeared to make Minister for Primary Industry the biggest city slicker he could find in parliament whose total knowledge of agriculture was talking to his canary in his flat in the morning and watering his pot plants. I welcome the honourable member for Parramatta - 
I hope he succeeds, as  Sir William  McMahon has, over a long and illustrious period in the Parliament. I think he will need to make his views a little more clear. I must acknowledge that in lieu of a canary and a pot plant, I think of a very prominent Australian race horse. I presume that his vast knowledge of rural matters stems very largely from running that horse on grass and feeding it, as well as perhaps other attributes of which I do not know about the honourable member for Parramatta. However, I beseech him the next time to make a little plainer to those of us of more ordinary mentality exactly why he intends to oppose Bills. I accept the fact that he does not intend to divide the House and I accept the reason given for this, namely, that there is not much time left in the session. In saying that there is not much time left, I hasten to add that he succeeded in speaking for half an hour nevertheless. 
I would like to take up one or two of his comments initially. The first relates to trace back as regards the disease eradication program which he suggested, very properly, was the method that should be used once the level of disease on inspection is cut back to reasonable levels. He rather conveyed the view that the Federal Government was at fault because the program was not being used. I remind the honourable member that it is currently being used in Tasmania. Secondly, the honourable member mentioned the abattoirs at Gunnedah: They are abattoirs, I regret to say, which I have never had the pleasure of viewing. 
I must ask my friend whether he will have me along one day. I would like to go. My experience in abattoirs is limited to Samcor Abattoir at Gepps Cross in South Australia. That is the biggest disaster of a socialist's dream that I have ever seen in my life. It has the highest charges for the processing of livestock in Australia today. That abattoir has a record of strike activity and of low productivity. Admittedly it is a service abattoir. That should cause anyone to question those odd critical remarks that the honourable member for Parramatta made regarding the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation a little while ago. It is without question a walking disaster, in spite of a very fair attempt at management by a very competent manager. The system for that service abattoir in South Australia is organised by politicians. Without question it is a walking disaster area for the primary producers. I would not have mentioned this except that in passing the honourable member for Parramatta brought up the matter of the abattoir at Gunnedah. 
I return to the Bills which are before the House I do not intend to talk for very long. In fact, I look upon all these Bills really as being in a certain sense possible to debate together. I note that the Government has separated the Bills relating to export inspection charges which will be the next group we discuss from the Bills which are before the House at the moment. It is fair to say- I notice that the honourable member for Parramatta really took the same point- that in times of Government restraint all sections of the community have to bear some of the cost of Budget charges. The rural industry of which I am more aware than other sectors is no exception. I noted that immediately after the mini-Budget two newspapers took the view that the charges levied by the Government on the rural community were purely cosmetic to try to make the mini-Budget look fair. The others dealt quantitatively with the result without offering that sort of comment. The rural weeklies took up the matter in a considerably more vociferous fashion. In some institutions- I emphasise the word some'- some rural leaders played their own form of agricultural politics either to increase their ideas of their importance in the agricultural community or, in the case of one person, to cement a rather dicky situation that he was in with regard to continuing in his job. We are used to these things. However, the vast number of rural organisational leaders took the same responsible view that I feel the whole of this House will take on these Bills. 
Of all sectors of the Australian economy, no sector wishes to see the Government cut back on big government more than the rural sector. No other sector would look with more horror at heavy government spending than the rural sector. That is why farmers vote in increasing numbers for the two Government parties. They do not want big government. They do not want all-embracing government action. They do not want to be coerced by a series of government regulations any more than they have to be. I expect that that also explains why there was a singular lack of local interest in the much vaunted Australian Labor Party conference held recently at Orange. The television program which I saw- I expect that it was honest in conveying to me how few people were at the conference- was, of course, blazoned across Australia much to the horror I imagine, of the organisers. Names on the guest speakers list were mainly of those people who would not vote for the ALP under any circumstances. However, it was a good attempt. I welcome in my loftier moments members of all parties who try to take some notice in detail of the problems of rural producers. In that sense I welcomed the Orange seminar, workshop or whatever it was termed. 
I return to the point I made earlier. All sections of the community, except those in poor or deprived situations currently have had to bear some of the cost. Export inspection charges have been levied on rural exports, such as processed meat and livestock. Would anyone say that the wool industry, the lamb industry, the beef industry or the grain industry cannot alford to meet an increased share- not the totality- of these costs? I do not think that anyone in his right mind would argue that proposition. I am sure that most thinking farmers involved in those industries would not argue that proposition. To take an opposite point of view would be absurd. Farmers are to be asked to pay, not all, but an increased share of costs currently paid by the taxpayer. Is there any valid reason, other than wishing to control industries centrally- I acknowledge some of the points which the honourable member for Parramatta made- why the taxpayer who is also the consumer should be asked to pay too high a section of the costs we are currently debating? I acknowledge the fine mathematical argument of the honourable member with regard to the increasing costs of selling and processing meat to Sydney abattoirs. That is true. But most of the charge imposed by these Bills is to be borne by the primary producer who can afford it and by the consumer who, hopefully, has other alternatives to beef, if that is the example about which the honourable member for Parramatta asked us to think. 
I do not talk as a full time or an entire single enterprise beef producer but as a producer with 800 breeding cows. I would say that the implication of this measure on my cost inputs is absolutely minimal. I would not deny, having sold a cow last week for $450, that I should pay some tax rather than have the taxpayer pick up the major share of these costs, whether they be export or internal. Farmers are having a good year generally both in high production due to fine seasonal conditions and also in export demand with its effect on high prices. Although in real terms any reasonable judgment of future returns could be compromised by increasing costs, farmers know and recognise the need to contain these rises by containing inflation. That, fundamentally, is what these Bills are all about. Farmers know that better than most because they largely sell on the export market. I know that quite well because I have been able to attend at least two meetings in rural areas since the mini-Budget. I do not think that there is much need to go over the implications of the Bills. That has been done adequately by the honourable member for Parramatta. Other matters of concern in this rural package are not mentioned in the Bills currently under discussion. But even when one includes the sort of matter which is not affected by these Bills- I would not like you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to accuse me of lack of relevance in this debate- the onus, or the load, is being borne not only by rural industries which can afford to bear it but also by those very rural industries that individually can best afford to bear it. 
I conclude my remarks in very much the same fashion as I frequently do when speaking in States other than my own by saying this: As long as this Government remains in power and as long as I have a committee under me which is as competent as it is and which can help to bolster up its  chairman,  then there is no question whatsoever that in times of stress or trouble the rural industries of this nation can depend on the Government and on my committee to protect them from adversity. We have already produced schemes which belle some of the wishes of the previous speakers and that is that prices should not fluctuate from the farmer's point of view. The honourable member for Parramatta knows very well that mechanisms and laws have been introduced by this Government such as the income equalisation deposit scheme, the tax averaging provisions and a wide variety of other schemes which almost remove from the farmers the protection that the honourable member felt they should have. If he was talking about the consumer, that is a different matter. I believe that in the future we have to look to steadying the price to the consumer who, fundamentally, bears the brunt of governments which in their wisdom enter new fields using taxpayers' money and which on the other hand, have to pay the ultimate price. I think that what I have said is sufficient for a second reading debate. I repeat that as long as this Government and the competent Government parties rural committee exists, there is no fear for farmers in Australia in the future. I think that people on both sides of the party fence will be very pleased at the marvellous returns and conditions which farmers are currently experiencing. 
-Is the amendment to the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979 seconded? 
-Do not drag the Chair into this. 
I now come to this question of cheap air fares. We have heard a lot about cheap fares and what a great job the Minister for Transport has done in this regard. Cheap fares were something that had to follow the introduction of the 747. The 747 can carry 500 people or, at a pinch, as the aircraft showed during the aftermath of Cyclone Tracy, it can carry over 600 people. I am not talking in terms of domestic flights carrying such numbers but rather about an aeroplane that can carry up to 500 people. They have to get the people to fill those seats. There is only one way in which they will get people to fill those seats and that is by introducing cheap air fares. So as surely as night follows day, cheap air fares had to follow because, if Qantas did not fill those seats, Qantas would lose money, as we saw happen with discounting practices some few years ago when Qantas lost about $lm a week. There was only one way in which to fill those seats and that was by offering cheap air fares. That ties together with my earlier point whether we are going to have this sort of operation. What are the economics of it? What are the national implications of it? Do cheap air fares mean large numbers of aeroplanes using large quantities of fuel? Those are the questions to which the Department, the airline and the Minister have to give an answer to this Parliament. 
Let us look at the cheap fares. As I say, they were something that was going to be introduced irrespective of which party was in office at the time. I express some sympathy for the Minister as far as arrangements with the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations are concerned. I should like to know what deals were made because we know that deals were made. In the days when American Airlines were permitted to come into Australia, it was done on a Country Party deal. The deal was that if Australia allowed American Airlines to come into Australia and overloaded the route at that time the Americans would buy more sugar and more beef. What is the deal as far as the ASEAN countries are concerned? Is it part and parcel of a foreign affairs exercise? What was the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  doing in all these negotiations which are purely and simply a transport matter? 
We of the Opposition want the Government to come clean, to tell us what the deal is. Then we will have a better understanding as to why the ASEAN protests were taken into consideration. After all, the traffic is Australian people. It is Australians who are travelling to Germany and other countries where cheap air fares have been introduced. It is the right of the national carriers of the countries involved to carry people from their own countries. If Singapore Airlines or airlines from the ASEAN countries want to come into Australia they should fill their planes with people from their own country. I draw the attention of honourable members to the position some years ago when Jet About Tours operated between Australia and Singapore and later to Kuala Lumpur. Ninety-three per cent of the people travelling on those planes were Australians. The ASEAN airlines carried half of the traffic but they got all of the tourist dollars in the form of accommodation. Australian tourists are exploited through the accommodation that is provided in those countries. Even today Australians travelling through Singapore are being exploited at the airport shops and also in the money market because they do not get a fair exchange rate when they cash travellers cheques. Australians are being exploited all the way along the line. I would like the Government to tell us what is in the agreement and what went on behind the scenes. Give us the facts and let us have the truth of what is going on. The ASEAN countries have a problem - 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker  has received letters from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Acting Speaker  has selected one matter, that is, the matter proposed by the honourable member for Gellibrand, namely: 
The failure of the Government's budgetary and monetary policy. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Order! I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-I will certainly draw the honourable member's attention to that fact. 
-Order! The honourable member for Reid has made his speech. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) How serious is the impact of rain on I979's dried vine fruit harvest. 
What is the expected impact on (a) quantity and (b) quality. 
What percentage of fruit is of 4 crown quality as at 3 1 May 1979. 
What is the estimated loss of income in the industry, as against forecasts, in this year of record overseas demand. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) What were the fluctuations in world prices for the various qualities of (a) wheat and (b) barley over the last 5 years and in each month since July 1 978. 
What was the effect on wheat and barley harvests of the recent harsh winter and spring climatic conditions in the northern hemisphere. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Australian Agricultural Council taken a firm decision on the biological control of Salvation Jane or, as it is referred to by the heathen, Paterson 's curse? Was the decision unanimous and thus binding on States as part of the nation? Can the Minister untangle for me and for those South Australian farmers affected the wavering position currently held by the South Australian Minister for Agriculture? Will the control insects now be released in South Australia at the same time as in other States? 
-Is leave granted? 
-Will the Prime Minister advise the House of encouraging mineral and energy projects existing in Australia. What significant barriers exist to the establishment of these projects? 
I thought that the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  made as good a job as he could in the circumstances. After all, the  Australian  on 19 July, referring to the Australian Labor Party conference in Adelaide to which the honourable member referred, stated: 
It says a lot about the inability of the ALP to come to grips with economic reality that the Hawke committee's plan was no more practical than the Hayden compromise promises to be . . . 
The last thing we need is a party working on airy-fairy cliches and the ideas of pseudo-intellectual theorists- riven by internecine strife. 
Let us analyse what the honourable member just said. Amongst other things he said that the Commonwealth should be blamed because it has not expended more on the establishment of schools. What are the facts? If I may deal with the references to airy-fairy cliches, it is a fact that in my State fewer people are going to school. The program does not come to a halt but what is anticipated, and practically and sensibly so, is that there should be a toning down in the number of new schools being built, particularly in older areas. That is exactly the sort of action referred to in the article that I have just quoted from. The honourable member for Cunningham, in his frantic attempts to support his leader's policy speech, evidently has not read the  Age  of 19 July which reported: 

 Mr Hawke has privately told ALP national conference delegates he now feels he cannot trust  Mr Hayden. 
The  National Times,  a day or two later, reported: 
 As far as I'm concerned, Hayden is dead '. 
The  National Times,  in the same issue, reported: 
. Hawke labelled Hayden 'a lying--- with a limited future'. 
I see every reason why a loyal member such as the honourable member for Cunningham should do what he can within his own limitations to try to pluck what criticism he possibly can from thus Budget. But that does not mean to say that anyone who can stop to think gives any kudos at all to the reasoning of the honourable member. For instance, what does the United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Denis  Healey, a Labour chancellor, say? He said: 
It remains as true as ever that inflation is the main enemy of full employment. 
Where is that comment in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)?  Where is there any realisation of it in any speech that so far has been made by Labor Party members during this Budget debate? Denis Healey also said: 
Monetary policy will be one decisive factor here. But our price competitiveness will also depend crucially on reducing industrial costs of which wages are bound to remain much the most important element. 
But we cannot expect to see the rate of unemployment - 
And I ask Opposition members to listen to this:  moving down at an acceptable speed unless we can create new jobs particularly in profitable firms. 
What does this Budget do for the manufacturing industry? I would like those honourable members who will follow me in this debate to tell me where the gap is in the impeccable logic of  Mr Denis  Healey. Why is it that those people who stop to think know that he is right and know that this Government is right in the thrust of it's Budget in respect of creating new jobs particularly in profitable firms in manufacturing industry and so strengthen the industrial base on which our whole economy depends. The honourable member for Cunningham, in his own inimitable gruff fashion, has tried to make the best of a bad case, and I congratulate him insofar as he was able to do so. The honourable member for Cunningham criticised our fuel policy. Has he not noticed that in the last 24 hours Ampol Petroleum Ltd has announced the coming on stream of a huge plant for the production of ethanol which would not have been possible but for the Government's fuel pricing policy? Ampol has forecast that within four years when the plant comes on stream there will be a margin for the production of ethanol. This would not have been possible if we had listened to the runaway tactics of the Leader of the Opposition who by innuendo said that we have taxed the consumers, the small businessmen and everyone else through our pricing policy. All these new discoveries, of which the most important was announced in the last 24 hours, that is, the Ampol ethanol production plant, are possible only because of the pricing policy. I wonder whether the honourable member for Cunningham can get that through his head. It seems to me that in a rational approach he should attempt to do so. 
The principal thrust of the Opposition's attack on the Budget is centred on unemployment and its contention that the Budget documents set forth a gloomy forecast. Let us face the fact that Budget forecasts are frequently conservative. I believe that Budget forecasts must be set against the background of the real gross domestic product statistics which point to an increase of 2.5 per cent for Australia, not 1.5 per cent as the honourable member for Cunningham said, compared with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast of 4 per cent. Whether we take the more conservative Budget figure or the OECD forecast, the fact is that an increase in the standard of living of Australians generally is forecast at a time when other nations show a smaller or, in some cases, a negative growth figure, as occurred on at least one occasion during the era of the Whitlam Government. The OECD forecasts a growth of 1.6 per cent in the United Kingdom, 3 per cent in the United States of America, an OECD average of 3.5 per cent and a 4 per cent growth in Australia. Such a real economic growth rate can be expected to have an effect on employment, particularly in labour-oriented industries. An example that I have in mind, which has been mentioned before in this House, is the 30 per cent increase in the export of manufactured goods during the last 12 months. This growth should be maintained, given the alterations to Division 7 provisions, which over two years have enabled smaller firms to retain profits from 50 per cent to 70 per cent. There is a huge increase in proposed expenditure on export incentive and performance schemes and there are similar increases in research and development funds. So there is no reason why that growth trend cannot be maintained and this Budget contains incentives to make sure that trend should continue. Two of these three incentive schemes peculiarly aid small businesses and, together with the elimination of death duties, represent very considerable help to all small businesses, whether city or rural, and, further, they offer real incentive for increased employment, frequently in regional areas, and that is desirable. 
The Australian Labor Party at both the Federal and State levels- and this is obvious from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition in this House- continues to believe that it can spend its way out of unemployment. But the consequence of that action is more inflation. The Leader of the 
Opposition has said so. He said: 'We will allow the deficit to balloon out a little bit'. This is very similar to the situation that occurred when Treasurer Cairns was winding his little handle, producing more money and saying: 'We will continue to wind it if it has any effect on unemployment'. What did that do? As inflation increased and as wages increased proportionately to inflation more and more people were thrown out of work. It was Labor's Treasurer Crean who said that one man's wage rise cost another man his job. Yet, this seems to me to be exactly what the Labor Party is suggesting in this Budget debate, quite contrary to the remarks of Denis Healey that I dealt with earlier. 
Is the Opposition doing this in ignorance? Is it playing cheap political politics? Or is it doing both? I am not sure. All I know is that any rational thinker will know that Denis Healey is correct, will know that the Government is correct and will know that the current thrust of the Opposition's arguments on unemployment is nothing less than blowing in the face of the wind, to coin a phrase. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the statistics for several employment categories for two 12-month periods from May 1974 to May 1975 and from May 1978 to May 1979. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

-I thank the House. For the 12 months from May 1974 to May 1975, the number of persons in civilian employment was down 55,000. From May 1978 to May 1979, the number was up by 64,000. From May 1974 to May 1975 the number of persons in private employment was down 155,000. From May 1978 to May 1979, the number was up 48,900. From May 1974 to May 1975, the number of persons in government employment rose, as one might expect, by 100,000 and from May 1978 to May 1979 it rose by 15,000. From May 1974 to May 1975 the number of persons unemployed increased by 164,200 and  from  May 1978 to May 1979 it increased by 1,300. Who has the right answer to unemployment? Is not the record of the Government, even throwing in the Regional Employment Development scheme which was introduced and removed by the Labor Party, considerably ahead of any performance by a Labor Party government? Of course, when one looks at those figures in a cold light one sees the persuasive nature of that charge. 
The Government in my own State of South Australia is equally blinkered. It has pursued such socialist schemes as Monarto, Samcor, the frozen food factory with its subsequent scandal, and the new project by the South Australian Land Commission which looks as though it will sound one of the death knells of the Corcoran Government. The Land Commission in South Australia was a Uren-Dunstan dream supported by Whitlam. It had the laudable aim of enabling South Australia to borrow $52m from the Commonwealth to purchase broad acres. The objective, about which we have heard a great deal from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  was to make land available for future housing blocks at a cheap rate. It has had the opposite effect. These blocks are now more expensive than nearby similar housing blocks opened up by private enterprise. This wild example of stupid and incomplete planning- I cannot conceive that the Opposition in this place is any different in philosophy from what has been a fairly successful Government in the past in South Australia- is now costing South Australian taxpayers $8,800 a day or $3. 2m a year in interest rates alone. Those figures do not include any repayment of the loan. Coupled with that scheme the project at Monarto adds another $5,000 a day in interest payments which the people of South Australia have to bear. Surely this goes back to my original statement to which I referred in the  Australian  newspaper, namely, that we can do with less airy-fairy, pseudo-intellectual socialist dreams and a little more practical knowledge of planning and proper organisation before taxpayers' funds are so expended. 
We have got on with it very well. The biggest increases in the bureaucracy in Australia have taken place in South Australia whose economy is going down and in Western Australia which at least has the excuse that its economy is going up. Those States are averaging an increase of about 14 per cent a year which the taxpayers- I think that even the honourable member for Melbourne pays his taxes- have to bear. We are doing a great deal as the figures to which I have referred will show. 
I now turn to a matter which is of great concern to me personally. It is a matter which many people in my electorate feared a great deal; that is, the possible imposition of a sales tax on wine that the Press was busy promoting for two months prior to the introduction of the Budget. Many people have given me a lot of help. I am delighted at the action of the Cabinet and the Government in relation to this matter. I would be wrong if I did not put on record my thanks to the South Australian Liberal senators and the State member for Chaffey,  Mr Peter  Arnold, for all their help in representing an opposite view in times of cyclical imbalance in consumption and demand in the grape growing industry. The Government has also decided to continue the quota arrangements on imported brandy and other protection measures for another six months until it has had time to consider fully the two Industries Assistance Commission reports affecting potable spirits and the grape growing industry. I will be attempting to influence the Government along the lines of a differential in favour of Australian produced spirits, including brandy, as against imported spirits. The 1978 Budget increased local excise and customs duty equally by 83.6 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a chart showing the average drop in consumption of Australian produced gin, brandy, rum, whisky, ouzo, vodka, liqueurs and other beverages as well as the consumption downturn in imported spirits. I have shown this chart also to the honourable member for Blaxland. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908300_26_1.jpg"></graphic>

These figures speak for themselves. Brandy consumption is down by roughly 3 1 per cent. The consumption of scotch whisky is down by only 20 per cent. That tends to be the spirit with the potential growth, given comparatively equitable treatment across the board. Honourable members will be able to study those figures in  Hansard.  As a result of the Government's increase in excise and customs duty, government revenue has increased, contrary to the attitude of growers, by $24. 1 lm or 3 1.7 per cent. What has decreased is the estimate in last year's Budget Papers. Based on those statistics the revenue yield has fallen by nearly 50 per cent or $24. 1 1 m on Australian spirits. Over the next few months the Government should be able to maximise its own yield- those figures prove that it has not done so- and, at the same time, allow the brandy side of the grape growing industry to exist as an important economic adjunct. 
Last year average farm incomes doubled, although it must be remembered that only about half of Australia's farmers shared that benefit. Many of them needed additional income as they came out of years of drought. This upturn led to many consequential benefits to the economy such as an improved balance of payments, more consumer demand, increased gross domestic product and some increase in employment in rural and rural-related industries. Of course, like most things, there were also costs to be met; for example, increases in the food component of the consumer price index and increases in the money supply, particularly from wheat advance payments. The wheat industry is now bigger than the total Budget of at least one State m Australia. That gives some indication of the enormous consequences of that industry in the Australian scene. I notice that yesterday the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  dismissed those facts with the glib phrase 'a fortuitous rural boom '. It was certainly a boom but I can think of many farmers who have experienced fire, flood, drought, poor seasons and increasing costs who would not think that it was fortuitous. 
Opposition members would do well to think before opening their mouths too widely on rural matters, on the devaluation in 1976 which was of considerable advantage to export earners and on the control of inflation which is now at a rate lower than that of most other countries with which we trade. It is anticipated that the United States will have an inflation rate in the coming year of about 14 per cent. In the United Kingdom the annual inflation rate based on the last quarter is close to 22 per cent. It is important for people to realise, before they talk about the economy or criticise the Government, the fact that as every day goes by this country becomes more competitive with its trading partners. That has a very great effect on and relevance to the standard of living of all Australians. Our performance is improving day by day in comparison with most of our trading partners with the possible exception of Japan. 
I noticed that the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  speaking on the radio program  P.M.  on 18 July about the Australian Labor Party's, economic policy, said: 
We 've finished up with a bit of a hotch-potch of a policy. 
I am not necessarily accusing the Labor Party of that. It has its problems, I know. That is  Mr Wran's  thinking. I believe that the Budget and the debate on it bears out that comment by  Mr Wran.  To my mind, the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was both cheap and tasteless. It was in no way up to the standard of speeches made by other Opposition leaders in the 15 years in which I have listened to them in this place. Many of his remarks were a disgrace to the House. He is not the slightest bit repentant about the drastic damage done to Australia and the Australian people by the Government of which he was a prominent Minister and even a Treasurer. If the ALP and its leader are not now aware of the improvements in the economy - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cotter)  adjourned. 
-Is leave granted? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member will not reflect personally on any member of this House. He is getting very close to doing just that. 
Last June the  Illawarra Mercury,  a daily newspaper circulating in the Wollongong area and a responsible paper, not a rat-bag rag, revealed the results of a survey that it had conducted over a long period. The headlines of 2 July read: 'Survey reveals squalor. 30,000 Living in Poverty.' The article went on with many, many startling revelations. It stated that 10.8 per cent of the Illawarra population lives on an average of $55 a week. It stated that more than 6,000 people on unemployment benefits pay more than 50 per cent of their pay cheques for accommodation. It also states that there are some 23,000 people in the region on pensions and benefits. The survey established that there had been a 300 per cent increase in the number of people seeking assistance from such benevolent organisations as the Smith Family, St Vincent de Paul and the Anglican welfare organisation. These people were seeking relief parcels in the form of food and the like. The numbers in that region who are receiving aid have reached the frightening figure of 90,000. Many of those seeking assistance are one income families with four, five or six dependent children. 
I presented the results of this survey to the responsible Ministers. I received the most innocuous responses and Government propaganda which simply said that the Government is concerned in the fight against inflation and until inflation is beaten there will be no relief to the situation. That is a very sad position. In almost every instance single and married people with dependents living on the pension or unemployment benefits are living below the poverty line after paying their taxes. For example, married and single persons on a pension or unemployment benefit with one, two of three dependants are expected to live on weekly incomes between $13.74 and 12.46 below the poverty line. If a married couple has five dependent children and the bread winner is unemployed, the family is expected to live on a weekly income $15.34 below the poverty line. No wonder that in New South Wales there are 6,418 applications for housing commission homes from pensioners applying for single person units. Of course, there are about 100,000 families with children on housing commission lists throughout Australia. These families are living on very low incomes and those on the pension or unemployment benefits are below the poverty line. At present they are living in extremely poor housing conditions. In only four instances in the family groupings with one, two, three, four or five children and so on do families living on the pension or unemployment benefit receive a weekly income above the poverty line, that is, a married couple without children on the pension and a married couple with six or seven children on the pension, If the same married couple with six or seven children is on the unemployment benefit however, they are living more than $6 a week below the poverty line. I ask leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  an official Parliamentary Library table in respect of this poverty level. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909136_62_4.jpg"></graphic>

Let me refer to another matter that seriously affects the Australian family and on which this Government gave some commitment. I refer to pharmaceutical benefits. The charges for drugs and medicines on the so-called free list have been raised under this Budget 25c to $2.75 a prescription from 1 September 1979. In one year this will cost pensioners and needy patients $7m. 
The Government has also decided to cut the number of drugs available on the free list. Although the number has not been determined, the Government will be seeking to achieve a full year saving of $20m by that process alone, the cost of which will have to be borne by those most in need- the sick and the needy. 
The Pharmacy Guild of Australia was critical of the Government for increasing the patient contribution on pharmaceuticals dispensed under the National Health Scheme. The  President  of the Guild,  Mr Alan  Russell, said the Government had not only increased the monetary burden on all sick people, but had failed to take account of the needs of the disadvantaged groups in the community. 
It goes on: 
While the Government a year ago recognised the financial plight of people classified by doctors as disadvantaged and agreed to pay for the cost of a medical consultation, they still expect these same people to pay the full contribution towards the cost of medication arising from that consultation . . . 
Of course, that is a cost which has increased as a consequence of the last Budget. The Press release concludes by saying:  the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme was now only a Government price fixing mechanism of manufacturers ' products and did not provide any substantial financial relief to the sick in the community. 
Of course that is the case. The extent by which other services to support a family have been cut by the Fraser Government can be illustrated by the following figures prepared by the Statistical Service of the Parliamentary Library. The figures take into account the effects of inflation and compare this year's allocation with allocations in the last Labor Budget of 1975-76. Using 1975-76 dollars, community health facilities and services this year have been cut by $ 14.8m. There are other programs referred to in this table, but I will not mention them all. Let me instance several of them. Using that effective level of the 1975-76 dollar value, dental services for school children have been cut by $8. 7m; children's services have been cut by $ 1 7.3m; payments to the States for schools have been cut by $22.8m; payments for child migrant and refugee education have been cut by $7.2m; payments for pre-school and child care have been cut by $ 18.6m; payments for housing have been cut by $205.8m and payments for leisure and cultural facilities have been cut by $5.4m. I seek the approval of the House to incorporate that table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="115131197909136_63_5.jpg"></graphic>

In 1975-76 the percentage of national health expenditure paid by the Commonwealth Government was 48 per cent. In 1977-78 this dropped to 37 per cent and the individual was asked to pay almost all of the difference- 10 per cent or $7 1 5m. Of course, if one could go on, one could instance so many examples of that kind. It all adds up to this: This Government has over the period it has been in office, waged a most insidious and even blatant attack on Australian families which the Government has pledged to uphold and support. It is the families which are the victims of its deteriorating policy- this lack of principle that is embodied in so many enactments of the Fraser Government. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lusher)  adjourned. 
-Order The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The point of order is unnecessary. I was about to act myself. The honourable member ought not to refer to a learned judge, no matter who he is, in such familiar terms. The Standing Orders are strict about the mention of judges in this House. I ask the honourable member to resume his speech but it might be as well if he withdrew his remark in relation to  Mr Justice  Staples. 
It just would not be true to say that all unions would act in a democratic way, free from judicial interference. 
Having said that, he then voted for the resolution which was introduced as an amendment and which was voted on by the conference. Why is the distinction made? A judicial review is far more than an ordinary audit. If we look at the parallel, we see that in 1977 there was brought into this House industrial legislation which required that there be a financial audit of industrial union affairs and that there be appropriate publication and transmission of the information concerning those affairs. It was merely a financial audit. The Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union collects $8m to $9m a year. Over the last half a dozen years it has raised its fees by 230 per cent to 340 per cent. That legislation was merely a request to have a financial audit. It was resisted - 
I was interested in what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had to say with respect to sections 8 and 18. Section 18 defines some defences. Section 8 gives certain guarantees as to the circumstances under which a director-general may make information available, and asserts that the Director-General can resist advice from the Minister as to the circumstances under which he can make information or advice available. He can be his own master, and there are occasions on which he deserves and ought to be his own master, free from ministerial interference. Were the amendments proposed by the Opposition to be accepted, one would get dangerously close to ministerial directions being required to be carried out in detail by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. This House ought to resist that course of events very fully and very clearly. Sections 8, 18 and 54 are all concerned with protections and they are so concerned because for the first time there is a clear charter in respect of this Organisation. 
It ought to be noted in passing that ASIO, when it was first set up under the Chifley Government, was set up under significant advice from the British domestic security organisation which had a military origin. In those days there was no desire to retreat from that proposition. When ASIO was set up it was set up for a reason which was quite clear and which was known to the Australian people. There were forces which were working actively against a free government in Australia. At that time the leaders of the Government were aware of that fact and they acted. They gave the Organisation the valid weapons with which to function. It is our duty in this House to see that the adequate weapons with which to function are not taken away from the Organisation. 
I come back to the point at which I began, namely, that most of the amendments ought to be rejected out of hand. The most important amendment is not that to section 8; it is the amendment proposing a judicial review. For reasons of common sense, for reasons of what occurs elsewhere in Australian society, for reasons of what occurs with respect to other organisations in Australian society, and for reasons of no guarantees as to the nature of appointments, it ought to be quite clear to this House that there ought to be no judicial review but that rights are to be determined within the valid aims of the security organisation. If we do that we will find that the country will be better off. Certainly, most of the 118 amendments ought to be rejected out of hand. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected the matter which in his opinion is the most urgent and important, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Gellibrand, namely: 
The use of the income tax law for party political purposes. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member will address his remarks to the Chair. 
Let us look at this legislation. Despite the debate from the other side of the House, I think the Opposition has failed to deal with the Bill. It tried, unsuccessfully, to raise emotional factors. It tried to represent its new policy as being something that is worthwhile to the workers of the country, but it failed to do so. What has the Minister said? What is he proposing? What does the Government want to do? The first point- standdowns is dealt with in an expedient way. If there is a stoppage and men are not able to work, why should it be a matter of weeks and weeks before an application for stand-down can be dealt with effectively? 
I turn now to the proposal that where there is no work there should be no pay. 'Where there is no work there is no pay' used to be a proposition that the Labor Party held dear. Not only did one not work, but one did not go out moonlighting either. How many union members today break that oath of faith in their movement and go out and work in clubs and pubs around the country doing any casual job that they can get? They are not concerned about their fellow unionists; they are after the finance that keeps their families going. If a dispute arises and a stoppage is called and they are forced out of work, of course they will go looking for the first casual job they can find. But the Labor Party will not espouse those causes, those principles of the union movement of Australia. The Labor Party says that, if people do not want to work, they should be paid anyway. Well, that is not a fact. This legislation sets down firmly and solidly, as it is should, the principles that the union movement itself holds, one of which is: No work, no pay. If funds have to be raised to support men in their jobs, if funds have to be raised by any means so that the dispute can continue, that indicates the dedication of the workers involved in the dispute. The principle involved is: No work, no pay. 
I think that when considering the other proposals of this legislation, such as referral to a full bench for deregistration, one only has to look at some of the disputes involving the Transport Workers Union of Australia and at the rights of the individuals in this matter.  (Quorum formed).  Members of the Labor Party object to this legislation. But let them look to the remarks of the Premier of New South Wales. Let them look to the newspaper article whose headline reads: Wran blasts unions for undermining jobs'. The article refers to  Mr Wran's  addressing shipbuilding unions and people in Newcastle and states: 
While the audience clapped and cheered his remarks,  Mr Wran  told how sections of the State dockyard workforce had caused the loss of two major contracts by demanding overaward payments. 
So there we have a person in the Labor Partythe Premier of New South Wales- saying that there must be fairness, responsibility and dedication to the wellbeing of the union movement at large and not the selfish point of view that has been put forward tonight. It would seem to me that the Labor Party, in its policy produced in Adelaide, has proposed a complete sellout of any rule of law, any sane and sensible industrial relations, in every union in this country. The strong will get stronger and the weak will get weaker. The ones who can make the stand-over demands, the ones who can operate the guerrilla tactics, will be the ones who are successful under Labor policy. There is no thought for moderate unions and the families of moderate unionists. I think that the Labor Party should be condemned for its policy and condemned for continuing to enunciate its policy. It should be seen for what it is- a sellout to the Left.  Mr Hawke  could not continue in the ACTU if the shambles of an industrial relations policy of a future Labor government as proposed at the Adelaide conference were to prevail.  Mr Hawke  said: 'I will not continue in the ACTU. I will get out because I cannot live with this industrial relations policy'. He is going to come into this House and he is going to attempt to convert members of the Opposition from within. I hope that he will start his conversion course with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  because, if anybody has shown the capacity to sell out, it must be the Leader of the Opposition. 
I bring before the House another matter related to industrial relations that I think is significant in cauusing the current wave of disputation in Australia today. It seems to me that the unfortunate decision made in an airline dispute before Christmas last year that allowed a flow-on of $8 a week to $ 14 a week was the key to and the crux of much of our problem in Australia today. I think that the decisions endorsed by the Full Bench in those circumstances have been very difficult indeed. They have given wage increases outside the indexation guidelines. The Minister produces legislation and the Government endorses it. Every honourable member here knows that the Australian people want legislation such as this. 
Honourable members on this side of the House say that there must be a fairer, more practical way of dealing with industrial relations than considering the public good by giving in to the strongest party. The problem with industrial relations in Australia today is that the weak lose and the strong gain, and the way to settle the dispute is to allow the strongest party to have its way. Unfortunately, as I see it, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has been party to decisions of this type. I think that that is unfortunate. I really feel that the adversary spirit in industrial relations today is bad for everyone involved. It is bad for Australia's image overseas; it is bad for the Australian worker; and it is bad for the continuance of the wellbeing of Australian families. There is no way that the adversary spirit will gain anything for any of the parties involved. To my mind, the crime of this attitude is that it dispenses the energies of management and labour in struggles between themselves, in a war where there are no real victors. Nobody is winning in industrial disputation in this country today. The Government has a responsibility, it has seen the responsibility and it has been begged to take up its responsibility to deal fairly with these problems. 
The legislation before us tonight deals with these problems fairly. These are not draconian measures; they are sensible, moderate attitudes that will allow the Full Bench- not the Minister- to adjudicate. This is not a political process, not a standing back, not an intervention, but a sane and sensible approach. It is one that has been espoused by the Minister who is a man of moderation and fairness. He is recognised by the union movement in Australia as being such. The union movement, piqued at not being able to browbeat the Minister, has not seen fit to involve itself in proper discussions on this legislation. I regard that as a criminal neglect of its duty. The union movement has not seen fit to sit down and discuss these provisions. They have been introduced into the House after careful study. I commend them. I know that they will be an improvement in the interests of sane, sensible industrial relations. I commend the Government for introducing them. 
-Order! The honourable member must watch his language. 
The truth is that the honourable member has been interfering in union matters for his own political purposes and in support of the disgraceful attitude of the employer, Metro Meats Ltd who now operate the former Conkey 's Abattoirs. Under the excuse that he was acting for members of the union to get the works reopened, he was trying to persuade the workers to accept the employer's proposition that their rates of pay and conditions of employment be covered by a federal award. The honourable member's campaign included the use of all local media outlets, the manipulation of a small minority of gullible union members and pushing his spurious claims that the dismissed employees would not be entitled to the dole because they were on strike, although he knew in reality that they had in fact been stood down. The honourable member contacted the nearest Commonwealth Employment Service office, which is at Wagga Wagga, and told the officer that the employees had been sacked for being on strike. Through his efforts the agency in Cootamundra refused even to give the dismissed employees claim forms. 
To enable the truth to be revealed about the issue, I would like to cite the following facts. On 29 March 1979 Metro Meats Ltd took over the Conkey Abattoirs. Over the 25 years of Conkey administration the works were covered by New South Wales State awards and agreements. The new owners carried on the works under the existing arrangements until 22 June. On this day, after work had commenced, a dispute developed in the boiler section of the works. The maintenance unions were on strike at the time and this caused the meat workers to go home for the day. Later the same day the local afternoon newspaper and television station stated that 320 meat workers at the abattoir and the maintenance employees had been dismissed because they were on strike. On Monday, 25 June the meat workers turned up for work and were informed by the management that they had been dismissed as indicated in the newspaper and on television and radio on the previous Friday. In fact the general manager for Metro Meats Ltd,  Mr C.  Watson, stated in evidence before Commissioner Gough on 27 June that the company maintained operations at Cootamundra for as long as they were viable but that it reached a point where it was no longer viable because of losses and the high price of livestock, and so the company had to close down its operations. 
In May of this year the company indicated that it wanted the Federal meat industry award to replace the State award coverage. After consultation the union informed management that it would not agree to this change. The company replied that it would approach the Federal Commission by way of an application seeking Federal coverage. Subsequently the employees, after discussion on the company's intention regarding a Federal award, walked off the job for a day in protest and decided to stop work on every day of the hearing. 
This dispute has dragged on for months. The union members have offered repeatedly to go back to work under the existing State award pending the result of the Commission's hearings. The honourable member for Hume has continued his efforts over this period to have the men capitulate to the employer's wishes. Eventually, on 19 September, Justice Mary Gaudron of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission handed down a decision against the employers justifying the claims of the men to work under a State award. At this hearing Justice Gaudron handed to the parties two telegrams that had been forwarded to the  Deputy  Registrar. These telegrams referred to meetings of a minority of union members organised by the honourable member for Hume in Cootamundra on Saturday, 1 1 August. The telegrams were not admitted by the judge but were certainly designed with the help of the honourable member to influence the company's case and the commissioner. 
Once again truth has prevailed and the shady manipulations of the honourable member have been to no avail. I hope that the honourable member will refrain from future excursions into union business. The AMIEU is a union with a long and proud record. Its history traces back to 1 880. 1 venture to say that it will survive, working for the interests of its members and the meat industry generally well after the honourable member for Hume and his cheap politicking will have passed into disgraceful oblivion. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 30 May 1 979: 
With respect to the strike by 3rd division members of the Commonwealth Public Service, called by the ACOA in the ACT on Tuesday, 29 May 1979, for each Department and Statutory Authority in the ACT: (a) how many members of the 3rd division participated in the strike, (b) what percentage of members of the 3rd division participated, (c) how many members of the 2nd division participated, (d) how many members of the 4th division participated and (e) what was the decrease in Government expenditure consequent upon the withholding of pay from strikers. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill has now expired. The question now is: 'That the report be adopted and that the Bill be now read a third time'. 
-The question is: 'That the Bill be now read a second time'. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. 
-The question now is: 'That the report be adopted and that the Bill be now read a third time '. 
-The time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill has expired. The question now is: 'That this Bill be now read a second time '. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Remaining stages of the Bill agreed to. 
Bill read a third time. 
I also address a question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. It bears on the question already asked by the honourable member for Henty. Can the right honourable gentleman explain to the House why there appears to be some doubt in the mind of the American Administration as to the validity of agreements on relaxation of duty on Australian wool imports into that country? Can he describe to me the current situation; why there is evidently a suspicion in the mind of the American 
Administration over this? How does this historically tie back also to relaxation of protection in the tobacco industry? At what time does agreement on these matters, which are important to Australian industries in both instances, become effective? 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-I have to report that Estimates Committee A has examined the proposed expenditures contained in Schedule 2 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1979-80 which were referred to it and has agreed to certain expressions of opinion in relation to them. Copies of the Committee 's report have been circulated. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I welcome the introduction of the Canned Fruits Marketing Bill. In so doing might I say that apart from my own electorate, the significant electorate that is concerned with the canning fruit industry is the electorate of the secretary of my rural committee and my friend, Bruce Lloyd, from the electorate of Murray.  His  input as this scheme has been developing has been a very real one as, in a less important way, I believe has mine. The canning industry itself and the growers in particular are very delighted indeed with the Government's action in introducing this legislation. It is not, as has been suggested by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  a tardy matter, not in relation to my electorate anyway. The matter has been debated over the last 1 8 months and, from step to step, this particular project has gone along very well. 
The industry is worth $70m to the nation. It has been bedevilled for some period of time by price cutting. Whereas one could argue, I suppose, against any stabilisation scheme, it may be that the consumers' interests are not taken into account when we get a scheme such as this to stabilise returns. The fact is that the price warfare that has gone on between two States in particular and maybe three States, has kept the market short of some particular commodities. I refer in particular to canned apricots. This is because it is a difficult and expensive crop to grow compared with pears and peaches. Quite frankly, with such price cutting going on every now and again over a seven-year period, it has had its effect on the supply of canned apricots, in particular, to the Australian consumer. The consumer required these commodities and the prices tended to soar on that particular line. I believe the scheme put before the Government today is another instance of the Government's listening to rural organisations, tempering the producers' ideas perhaps in a more realistic fashion and producing a situation where those growers who are currently experiencing huge inputs of investment capital into this area without any possibility of a consistent return from year to year with the price cutting that has bedevilled it, have an income. The consumer on the other hand will get an assured supply. 
I want to make one only other comment. Not only is this scheme an efficient scheme from the point of view of very little overhead in relation to the compiling of statistics to enable the scheme to take effect- it has a very small component of increased labour to do that- but also it has within it a similarity to the early suggestions put forward in regard to the dairying industy. In other words they have taken their assured market and they will proportion amounts of fruit to that. On returns from those assured markets will come the equalised returns. But there is nothing in this Bill to stop those canneries that wish, to produce above that quota. I think it is important for the House to recognise that this is so because if on risk markets they wish to produce a bigger amount of fruit, at a risk price, and they consider it would pay the grower to do so because a market might open up- in fact, there are one or two quite promising ones outside the area of the assured market- then this Bill allows that to happen. I am quite certain that in some years that will happen. There are, therefore, built into the scheme some checks and balances that are not always in similar schemes that have been put before this House. I congratulate the industry. I congratulate the grower section of it. Growers have been a very important factor in suggesting this reform to the Government. I congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon),  who has taken such great note of this very important debate. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) ( 10.13)- I have been thoroughly briefed by deciduous fruit growers and members of the cannery board in my electorate on the implications of this Bill. I hope they understand that the only reason I do not raise all the matters that they have put before me is because of the lateness of the hour. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills- because the situation in the deciduous canned fruit industry has become more critical, not because of any seasonal marketing conditions or lack of efficiency, but simply because of adverse marketing controls including the European Economic Community trade regulations and some adverse buying procedures within Australia. The Bill will give the Australian deciduous canning fruit industry the chance of standing up against some of these market forces by enabling the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation to be vested with ownership of production of canned apricots, peaches and pears and to manage the selling arrangements within Australia and overseas. I believe that an article in the  Mumimbidgee Irrigator  of 2 October 1979 gives a clear indication of the concern felt by the New South Wales Government and the Victorian Government about the present situation. I refer to an article that appeared under the heading 'Tax rebate for Letona'. Letona is a canning factory in my electorate. The article states: 
Letona Cannery has received a payroll tax rebate of more than $200,000 from the State Government. 
Cannery  Chairman, Mr R.  E. Taylor, was presented with a cheque for $266,089 by the Minister for Decentralisation,  Mr Jack  Hallam, last Friday. 
As well, the Government has announced approval of $60,000 housing loan to the company. 
The latter is to assist with the housing of employees. 

 Mr Hallam presented the payroll tax rebate during a visit to Leeton. 
Order! There is no substance to the point of order. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I refer the Minister for Housing and Construction to the value limit which has now been imposed on houses qualifying for a home savings grant. I ask the Minister whether the Government took into account the higher cost of building a house on a farm or in remote areas of Australia in determining the value limit? What increase in funds is available this year? Can the backlog be overcome? Finally, can the Minister say how many grants are likely to be paid in South Australia in this financial year? 
-I hesitate to interrupt the honourable member for Reid. The Chair has been pretty lenient. This is a debate on the Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill; not on the building and construction industry generally. The honourable member's amendment applies to home savings grants. I wonder whether the honourable member would try to tie his remarks in to the Bill. 
Has the Minister for National Development seen a Bureau of Agricultural Economics working paper in which statistics are produced showing that vegetable oils are the most promising on-farm source of tractor fuel? Is the Minister aware that such oils are being used in Western Australia as a direct substitute for distillate in its pure form? What legislative restrictions may apply to such on-farm use? If an excise payment currently applies, will the Government look at exempting such oils from excise when used on farm as a direct substitute for distillate? 
-The Minister may proceed. 
Ainslie bus depot, I said that the Government was having expressed to it objections from the unions and also that others in the community had some worries about the project. At the time when I answered that question, my recollection was that I had been told that it had run into opposition from the unions. I have clarified the information that I had. The information I had was that that project may produce opposition from the unions. I clarify that aspect of the answer so that honourable members will be aware as soon as possible of the true position. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
In which (a) Departments and Statutory Authorities, (b) Public Service divisions (1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th) or equivalent technical classifications and (c) States and Territories have reductions in numbers of Commonwealth public servants been made since January 1976. 
What has been the consequential saving in Government expenditure for the same period and in the same categories. 
Have these reductions been made without declaring Commonwealth public servants redundant. 
Can he say what changes have occurred since January 1976 in the total numbers employed by State and Northern Territory Government Departments and State and Northern Territory statutory authorities. 
Can he also say what have been the consequential changes in State and Northern Territory expenditures. 
What were the total Commonwealth Government outlays for all purposes for each State and the Northern Territory in (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77, (c) 1977-78 and what is the estimated outlay for (d ) 1 978-79. 
What was the budget surplus or deficit for each State and the Northern Territory in (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77, (c) 1977-78 and what is the estimated budget  surplus or  deficit for(d) 1978-79. 
