1 direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. The Postmaster-General has given an undertaking that pastoralists in Western Australia connected to the Carnarvon telephone exchange will be connected, without cost to them, to the Geraldton exchange, 300 miles away, when the Carnarvon exchange is converted to the automatic system. Will this concession be extended to farmers generally who will be faced with heavy expense when their manual exchanges are converted to the automatic system? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn by a warning by Professor Goram Lofroth of the Stockholm University made recently, supported by  Dr Boyden,  head of the Biology Group of the John Curtin School of Medicine and the authoritative British journal 'New Scientist' that pest strips similar to those on sale throughout Australia are a serious danger to humans as they give off a high level of the nerve gas DDVP? Will the Minister have the situation examined and take the necessary action to protect the health of the community? 
This Bill is the first of its type in relation to the wheat industry that has ever come before the Parliament. Although the reason is fairly easy to see, it is most unfortunate that this is the case. Since its introduction the wheat stabilisation scheme has been able to pay its way and to meet the costs incurred in making the first and subsequent payments to producers. There has been no problem in that regard. In the last couple of years, however, we have seen a trend which indicates that the situation will not remain so favourable. World demand for wheat has fallen. Trade in wheat has fallen from 2,300 million bushels in 1955-56 to 1,700 million bushels in 1968-69, a drop of 600 million bushels. It is obvious that with improved methods of production and unless the situation changes world trade in wheat will fall even below this amount. In Australia during the last year we have had to make our first payments for wheat. These payments have been financed, as is always the case, by the 
Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank must recoup those amounts within 12 months. Generally, sales of wheat on the world market have enabled the sums to be recouped without difficulty; but due to restricted markets for wheat, sales until recently have failed by about $250m to meet advances totalling $624m made by the Reserve Bank. I am very pleased to say that in the last few weeks further sales of wheat have been made, and these will reduce the amount necessary to be raised. 
This legislation anticipates that a lot of negotiating has to be done for future sales. As the amount necessary to be raised is subject to guesswork at this stage, it has been thought wise to ask for approval of more than the sum of $250m estimated to be required to repay the Reserve Bank. In fact, approval is sought for an amount of $300m. As the payment has to be met by 31st March this Bill must be dealt with urgently. I have said that I deplore that we have been unable to make sufficient sales of wheat to overseas buyers to meet the requirements of the Reserve Bank. 
This Bill is fairly straightforward, except for a couple of matters to which I wish to direct attention. Sub-clause (2.) of clause 4 providesthat moneys borrowed under this legislation may be made available, on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines, by way of loan to the Australian Wheat Board.' That is the way in which it works. But when an explanation is sought it is found that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in his second reading speech referred to 2 points concerning those terms and conditions. The first is that the Board will be required to use for repayment of the loan all net receipts after the date of the loan from export sales of wheat of the 1968-69 pool. The disturbing feature about that requirement is that it means that no additional payments will be made to farmers until that amount has been paid off. This is a fairly serious matter although once wheat growers have received the payment of $1.10 a bushel they are  hopeful of being in a reasonable  financial position. However, it is the extra payments that give the wheat growers the ability to carry on. In the light of the present state of world markets it could be a considerable time before the loan is paid off and any surplus paid to farmers. This is one of the terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer. The only reference to it is in the Minister's second reading speech, as I have said. 
The other point promoted quite a lot of discussion in another place. I refer to the interest rate. Since the introduction of this Bill the interest rate on bank loans has been increased throughout Australia. It seems reasonable to anticipate that the interest rate payable on this loan will also be increased. Questions from both sides of the chamber in the other place anticipated an alteration in the bank interest rate but continual pressure on the Minister did not elicit the likely interest rate, other than that at that moment it was 5%. 1 would like to know whether in the period since the discussion of the Bill in another place the interest rate has been increased. I would like to know whether the Treasurer has determined what interest rate is to be charged on this loan. 
I do not think wc can stress too much the importance of the interest rate. Any increase will add to the burden of the farmers because they will have to pay it. The amount available to them will accordingly be reduced. The next point to which ] wish to refer does not really enter into a discussion of this legislation, but it is worth remembering. We could be faced with a very serious situation in the coming years if production of wheat continues at the present rate. Production will further increase unless protection is given and the situation will be extremely serious unless other export markets are discovered or a method of distribution of wheat is effected throughout the world to supply the wants of needy countries. Probably a more appropriate time to discuss this matter is when we are debating the wheat stabilisation measure. However, I have mentioned it now because of its serious nature. 
A number of conflicting opinions have been given about world requirements of wheat. Some experts are claiming that there is no shortage of food in the world, and that it is only a shortage of the more sophisticated types of food. The United Nations has stated that there is a serious food shortage which will be greatly aggravated during the 1970s. If that is so, it is our duty to find ways to distribute our wheat. 
I agree that there are people who prefer rice to wheat, but  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack appreciates that a taste can be cultivated for wheat products provided the problem is tackled in a realistic way. In some areas where wheat was introduced it was found to be unsaleable until it was manufactured into a product such as noodles. That was one way of getting over the problem of making wheat acceptable to people who are used to eating rice. That is part of the situation surrounding wheat, and it is an interesting point, but 1 do not think it really enters into a discussion of this Bill. It is in this situation, in which it is likely that as the years proceed we will be in a worse position than we are at present, that we must look at the Bill. At the moment we are forced into agreement and, consequently, the Opposition is not opposing (he measure. However, we may see another Bill brought in al the end of this year requiring probably even greater finance to be made available in order to assist the Australian Wheat Board in the problem with which it is faced. 
On behalf of the Opposition I announce that we do not oppose the Bill. 1 trust that the remarks I have made about the difficulties that I see will be taken into consideration. I refer particularly to the problem of interest. The question of further payments to farmers before the Australian Wheat Board has discharged its debt to the Reserve Bank is an extremely serious one, but 1 am sure that the problem will bc solved because already it is referred to in the second reading speech. I have no objection to the Bill. 

 Senator PROWSE (Western Australia) 18.31]  -  I compliment  Senator Wilkinson  for the factual way in which he has dealt with the Bill. As I see it, he has stated the purpose of the Bill correctly. Although it has been pointed out that approximately 5250m will have to be covered by the Government guarantee, the guarantee is for $300m to provide for any contingencies in the sale of the wheat remaining from the 1968-69 crop. This is a very wise precaution. As to the interest rates, 1 understand that the meaning of the terms applied is that interest will be paid at the same rate as is currently being paid by the Australian Wheat Board for its credits from the Reserve Bank, that is, there will be no increase or decrease in the rate of interest charged on the amount that is now guaranteed by the Commonwealth in respect of the amount that was owing toy the Australian Wheat Board to the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
It is interesting to recall, as  Senator Wilkinson  did, that this is the first time since the wheat stabilisation plan came into operation that the Commonwealth has been called upon to make good a guarantee. It is noteworthy that although the Wheat Board owes to the Reserve Bank $250m on the 1968-69 crop, during that year the Board sold wheat to the value of $374m. That is very close to the actual figure for wheat sales; I derived it from the figures available to me. The substance of the Bill reveals only partly the story of the wheat industry. I should like to bring to the Senate a few figures which show just how important the wheat industry is to Australia and the contribution that it has made to Australia's economy, and to set against that the cost in terms of payments by the Commonwealth to wheat growers. In the 10- year period from 1958-59 until 1967-68 Australian wheat growers produced $4,271,772,000 worth of wheat. Although at present there is some doubt about its final value because there are not full realisations for the last 2 years, Australia has grown more than $ 1,000m worth of wheat in the last 2 years. I repeat that proviso that last year's figures are not final. Over a period of 12 years Australian wheat growers have produced more than $5,000m worth of wheat. During that period the cost to the Australian Government has been $155m. The Commonwealth contribution in relation to the total value of wheat produced has been less than 3%. The pundits, the economists, the wise men, tell us that this injection of 3% has caused a tremendous upsurge in the production of wheat in Australia. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry draw the attention of that Minister to a resolution overwhelmingly carried at the Farmers Union conference in Perth yesterday opposing the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams, so that the Minister will have a better understanding of the feelings of wool growers in this matter? 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
As the Postmaster-General has given an undertaking that pastoralists in Western Australia connected to the Carnarvon exchange will be connected, without cost to them, to the Geraldton exchange 300 miles away when the Carnarvon exchange is converted to automatic, will this concession be extended to farmers generally who are faced with heavy expense when their manual exchanges are converted to automatic operation. 
To provide a measure of assistance for a number of pastoralists in the Carnarvon area, plans were developed to divert their lines to remotely controlled exchanges to be established along the Carnarvon-Port Hedland coaxial cable route. Although this would have considerably lessened the amount of private construction, the subscribers would still have been required to rebuild fairly long sections of their lines and, in addition, trunk rates would have applied on their calls to Carnarvon. 
Following a review of the matter, it was decided that connection to Carnarvon could continue as long as the lines concerned were capable of operating satisfactorily. When the Carnarvon exchange is converted to automatic operation, the lines will remain connected to Carnarvon under manual operating conditions. However, if this arrangement becomes too uneconomic, consideration will be given to having calls to and from the services in question handled manually at Geraldton. Nevertheless, no firm commitment has been made in this respect. 
The situation in the remote Carnarvon area is very different from the majority of other areas  where subscriber's lines need to be upgraded to meet the requirements of automatic operation and it would not be appropriate to apply the arrangement concluded for Carnarvon to other areas as a matter of course. Nevertheless, it is realised that the upgrading of private sections of lines to full Departmental standards can involve subscribers, particularly those located some distance from the exchange, in substantial expenditure. When very long distances are involved, special arrangements may continue to be necessary, depending on the circumstances of each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent warning by Professor Goran Lofroth of Stockholm University, supported by  Dr S.  V. Boyden, of the Biology Department at the John Curtin School of Medical Research, and the authoritative British Journal 'New Scientist', that pest strips similar to some on sale throughout Australia are a serious danger to humans, as they give off a high level of the nerve gas DDVP? 
Will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to protect the health of the community? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is any examination being conducted of the possibility of increasing the value of the Commonwealth superannuation  unit which has not been varied for 15 years although the cost of living has increased greatly over that period? 
The Labor Party Opposition is appreciative of the opportunity to debate the motion which has been put forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. We give credit to that Party for bringing it forward and stealing our thunder. This is a matter about which I think every section of the Senate is vitally concerned, and because we are so vitally concerned I hope that during the debate we will endeavour to achieve such a position that the people of Australia, and in particular those in our rural industries, will appreciate that their plight is of considerable concern to the Senate. Therefore I welcome this opportunity for discussion. We are faced at the present time with a surprising situation. Within my memory this is the first occasion on which farmers have stepped outside their generally accepted organisations and have tried to impress on the public and the Government the difficulties that now are facing them. 
It is of considerable interest to look at some of the background to this matter. A very interesting brochure has been produced from information obtained from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research. I think we all have had a copy of it delivered to us. It sets out in thumbnail form some of the relevant points that I think we should take into consideration. The one that I want to mention first relates to the value of rural commodities from the point of view of their export earning capacity. We have always appreciated that our rural industries are our major earners of export income, but it comes as a shock to people who are not aware of the situation to learn that even now, despite the tremendous expansion that has taken place in the development of our mineral resources, rural industry still commands 55% - more than half - of the income earning capacity of Australia. 
This is something which is tremendously important and we must not, as is generally found to be the tendency with people who do not understand the situation, endeavour to place rural industry as a kind of coming sideline. Agricultural economists and economists generally all accept the fact that for some considerable period rural industry will still be earning more than 50% of Australia's export income. Let me cite some figures. In 1968-69 the value of rural products exported was $l,847m. That represents 55% of the total value of exports. It is interesting to note some of the commodities which earned amounts that went to make up the $ 1,847m. Wool was worth $797m, meat and meat products $286m, wheat $258m, sugar $130m, fruit and vegetables $97m and the kind of things that we do not usually consider as being valuable export earners such as hides, skins, dairy products and other cereal products earned S250m. That is an indication of the value of rural industry to Australia. 
Productivity and costs are the next important factors at which we have to look. The farmer is complaining that he is being forced by economic circumstances to improve his efficiency. I do not think he is objecting to improving his efficiency; but his costs are increasing and his income is remaining practically constant. Turning again to this valuable little brochure, which is the sort of document that those who are interested in the farmers' problems can put in their pockets and carry with them, we find that, giving a value of 100 to the prices paid by the rural community in  1961-62,  the figure for prices received in that year was -97. The rural community received rather less than it paid out in 1961-62. The prices received did not vary very much over the years up to 1968-69. The figures were 97, 109, 111, 107 and 106, taking them in 2-y early steps. Over the same period the prices paid increased to 120. In 1968-69 the figures for prices received was 106. whereas that for prices paid was 120. 
That shows the reason why the primary producer is in the position in which he is now. One of the problems that result from this position is that he has no reserves on which to draw.  His  reserves are depleted very quickly. So, he has to approach finance houses and stock firms for assistance. This creates a very serious national problem. This is the last matter on which I wish to refer to this brochure. It shows that the primary producers have had to increase their net indebtedness dramatically over the last few years. In the 5 years up to June 1969 the net rural indebtedness rose from Si 59m, which is a pretty considerable sum, to $998m, representing an increase of 527%. That is an indication of how badly off the primary producers are. 
These difficulties in rural industry have been evident for some time. Let me draw to the attention of the Senate very quickly the sorts of things that we have seen over the last few years. In the apple industry for instance, Tasmanian senators, supported by Western Australian senators, have been pointing out the difficulties experienced over the last few years. The growers have not been able to obtain markets for the terrific crops that have been produced in these years. Prices have been extremely low. At the same time we have had problems in the dairy industry in Western Australia. We had a meeting in Busselton which was advertised as being a meeting of protest by dairy farmers. To the surprise of the organisers, some 300 dairy farmers came along to the meeting from all round that area, overflowed the hall and complained about the problems of their industry. It was at that meeting that the suggested dairy industry rationalisation scheme was brought forward. The primary producers welcomed it as a possible means of making their farms viable. 
The situation also extended to the banana industry. In 1967 I went to the coastal areas in New South Wales and saw the banana industry which at that time was in a very serious plight. The situation has not improved since then. In the following year droughts occurred in various parts of Australia. Seasonal conditions in the south west of Western Australia brought about a crisis situation. At that moment in Western Australia the crisis situation applied only to wheat farmers and producers of fat lambs. The result was the holding of protest meetings at which the farmers objected because the Government was not taking any action to help them. Those meetings developed into a mass meeting which took place at the Perry Lakes Stadium and which was attended by more than 3,000 farmers on a very good harvesting day in December. They surprised  Mr Anthony  by their attacks in which they asked for some assistance and advice as to what could be done to remedy the serious situation in which they found themselves. The situation has continued ever since. But last year it became more drastic when world markets disappeared. This has now made a very big difference to rural industry throughout Australia and its prospects. 
A meeting was held only a fortnight ago tomorrow in Perth. It was called by the Adult Education Board. A number  of  prominent speakers were invited to attend. They included  Mr Anthony; Dr Rex  Patterson; Professor Lloyd, the Professor of Agricultural Economics at Monash University;  Mr Honan,  an Assistant Director  of  the Bureau  of  Agricultural Economics;  Mr Teese,  of the Department of Trade and Industry; and  Dr Schapper,  an agricultural economist at the University of Western Australia. The suggestions that were put forward by  Mr Anthony  did not meet with general approval because there was very little difference between them and those he has been making over the last 2 years. 
As an example, I wish to refer particularly to the speech that  Mr Anthony  made to the Australian Agricultural Council. I am trying to make my speech in a constructive way. I do not want to be destructive. I can see what he was trying to do. I believe that he was doing the best he could. In the speech that he made to the Australian Agricultural Council on 2nd February this year a few points stand out. The first point that we notice is that he is not so sure that we are in a difficult situation. He says that some sections of rural industry are, but some are not. 
I do not intend to go right through the speech. I propose to summarise some of the things he said. He said that there had been drought situations in some parts of Australia, particularly Queensland and Western Australia, and that these reduced overall rural output, but even so the exports situation was not too bad. He said that in 1969-70 wool production is expected to pass the 2,000 million lb mark for the first time. Meat production is estimated at 1,915,000 tons, which is 10% above last year's output; milk production appears certain to set a new record; the area sown to wheat was a bit down on what it was for the previous year, but the estimated crop of wheat for the season is still a very good one; barley production was up 6%; and the sugarcane harvest fell because of drought conditions in Queensland. But he said that the gross value of rural production for 1969-70 is estimated at about $3,700m, which is only $230m below the record figure for 1968-69, and it is still higher than the figure for the previous year, 1967-68, which was a drought year. So it would seem from the address which the Minister gave to the Australian Agricultural Council, that he considers that the situation is not as bad as we might think it is. 
Of course, on the other hand farmers are complaining, and this is why protests are taking place at the present time. Farmers consider that they are in a bad state. The Minister in his speech to the 
Australian Agricultural Council, which is very similar to the speech that he made in Perth last Thursday week and similar to the one which he made in Queensland approximately a month ago, did not give any solutions to the problem facing farmers, other than the ones about which we have heard; for instance, the dairy reconstruction scheme which has considerable merit. When we discussed this question 2 years ago, I pointed out that I considered the scheme had merit, but I criticised the fact that it does not take into account a very important human factor, that is, that we ought to be finding other occupations for those farmers who have been displaced from their dairy properties, and at this stage there is no provision for retraining. I think that the scheme could be expanded and applied to all farmers in order to help to rehabilitate them and also to rehabilitate the industry. But this is something that has to be considered by a much more competent body than the suggested royal commission into primary industry. 
At the meeting in Perth a number of proposals were put forward by the various speakers, and without indicating that I agree or object to them, I should like to run quickly through them, by giving their headings and nothing more, in order to give honourable senators an idea of the thinking of the various people particularly agricultural economists, on the problems facing the dairy industry. The first proposal which was advanced - and I referred to this matter in my speech during the Budget debate, I think, last year or the year before that - is that a very close look should be given to the proposition of negative income tax for inadequate income farmers who cannot get big and cannot get out. This is a very important avenue that I think should be explored, because it could provide important relief to farmers. The important point to remember is that there are 2 problems: There is the problem of immediate relief, and there is the problem of long term assistance to the industry, and these questions have to be considered. 
The second proposal is to speed the dropout and the merger rate of uneconomic farms. I referred to that matter previously when I said that we wanted to extend the idea of the reconstruction scheme for dairy farmers so that it could take in other farmers as well. 
Although the honourable senator is not in his right seat, r do not mind defining what 1 mean by an uneconomic farmer. 1 do not mean a farmer who is not able to produce efficiently, although he may know his job. I do not mean this sort of a person. I am referring to a person who is on a property which cannot give him a return which is adequate for his needs. This is an uneconomic farmer. He might be the best farmer in the world, and he might run his property in the best possible way, but if the property is not large enough to give him a return that is adequate to meet his needs and to recover his expenses, then it is not an efficient farm: he is not an economic farmer. 
Another proposal, which I think is very important, refers to the raising of managerial skills of farmers. This comes back to the point that I have raised, and it is an important one. In the future it will be necessary, in my opinion - and this view is held by a number of people who have given considerable thought to this matter - to give farmers the ability with which to change their type of farming within a reasonable period of time. For instance, if a farmer changes over to wheat this year and the wheat situation deteriorates - wheat is not a good example because the present position in the wheat industry is bad - in 5 years it might suit him to change over to barley, oats or some other crop, and he has to have the skill to be able to do so. 
The next proposal which was suggested at the conference - and I stress that the proposals are not mine, they were put forward at a conference, but they give an idea of the sort of thinking that is going on - is to reduce tariffs to lower the rate of increase in prices paid, or to pay tariff compensating bounties on tariff-induced farm costs. Another proposal is to increase the efficiency of processes and organisation of marketing farm production. This is something which really is outside the control of the farmer, because he cannot be involved in the actual marketing of his product. He can advise, he can say what he hopes to do with his product, but he is not able to look at the overseas markets, to assess them and to canvass their possibilities. 
Another proposal put forward at the conference was that: there should be marketing boards to do their own wholesaling in foreign markets. The final proposal that was put forward at the meeting is that there should be more help for poor people in Australia and for poorer countries to become richer faster, and to become better customers of Australia's farmers sooner. They are some of the proposals that were put forward at the meeting. The question is: What are we going to do? The Democratic Labor Party suggests that we should set up a royal commission. This is the standard approach which is adopted by farmers wherever you go. At each meeting which you attend, the only thing they say - and. of course, this is a thing about which they know very little - is that they want a royal commission set up to examine the whole situation. 

 Senator McManus appreciated the difficulty that is inherent in the normal conduct of a royal commission, that is, that the commission takes a long while to reach any conclusions, and the question arises as to what happens in the meantime. This is a very important point, and  Senator McManus  did not try to gloss over it. He pointed out it was possible that a royal commission could make interim decisions which could be implemented, and such a procedure would be of considerable value to primary industry at the present time. But I think that there is another way of looking at this matter, f have already referred to the Australian Agricultural Council. Here is a body which is already in existence and which could do a. considerable amount of work for the farmers who are in need of help. 
The amendment moved by the Minister for Air has some merit in it, but the Opposition feels that it will not achieve the results that were intended to be achieved by the mover of Ihe original motion and certainly will not achieve the results intended by members of the Labor Party.  Senator Webster  wanted to know how many committees would be involved if the Minister's amendment were carried. The Minister said that about 24 would be involved, from a quick glance at the amendment, but that a lot more than that could be involved. Twenty-four committees would be cumbersome. Their inquiries would be interlocked. How would they work? I suggest that we look at the terms of the amendment that the Labor Party proposes to move later on. I will foreshadow the type of amendment that is proposed. 1 think it has been mentioned already that the words in the Government's amendment which refer lo primary producers are an unfortunate choice of words. Therefore, in due course, we will move: 
That, ihe word 'primary' in iiic second line be deleted and (he word 'rural' inserted in lieu thereof. 
I think that this would be a generally acceptable proposition, lt leaves no doubt as to what we have in mind. 

 - i think the expression 'rural producers' gives the same meaning. If the honourable senator wants to move another amendment afterwards, he may do so. 1 think that the proposed amendment contains the correct expression. 
I think that is a little equivocal. To my mind and. 1 think, to the minds of most people, a rural producer would mean a person engaged in rural production. We propose to leave the rest of that paragraph. In relation to clause (1) of the Government's amendment, we propose to leave the words: 
the most appropriate way of investigating the present problems of the primary industries would be . . . 
But from that point we would delete the rest of the amendment and would insert these words:   . . for the Government to call an emergency meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council to review the present crisis in the countryside and give proper national leadership and end without delay ihe present uncertainty and current hardship. 
I hope that by the time someone moves the amendment all honourable senators will have a copy of it. At the moment I have only a flimsy copy of it. The first question that could be asked is why the Australian Agricultural Council should be asked to do this work. As most honourable senators probably know, each State Minister for Agriculture is a member of the Agricultural Council. The  Chairman  is the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry. The Secretary is an officer of the Department of Primary Industry in Canberra. I did not know that until a short while ago. The Council is a nominated body only. It is not an elected body, apart from its members having been elected to Parliament. The Council's function is generally to promote the welfare and development of agricultural industries. That is one of its overriding responsibilities. It has to function and carry out its duties in conjunction with the Standing Committee on Agriculture. The Standing Committee is the work horse of the Agricultural Council. Permanent members of each of the State Departments for Agriculture are members of the Standing Committee. A representative from the Department of Primary Industry, a representative from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, a representative from the Department of the Interior, a representative from the Department of External Territories, a representative from the Department of Health, a representative from the Treasury and last but by no means least a representative from the Department of Trade and Industry also are members of the Standing Committee. 
The Standing Committee would be able to cover much more fully the needs of rural industries than would the committees set out in the Government's amendment. The committees mentioned in the Government's amendment would be backed by the available resources of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation as stated in the amendment. The Standing Committee could offer more help than committees such as those mentioned in the Government's amendment. The Standing Committee provides the basis for a complete coverage of matters that affect the primary rural industries. 
I said that for the benefit of the honourable senator, but I did not think it registered. I said that only for his benefit. Those words will not be included in the amendment. The Standing Committee's functions are these - and its functions are most important when we consider the objective of the motion that we are debating tonight: 
To secure co-operation and co-ordination in agricultural research throughout the industry. 
To advise the Commonwealth and State governments either directly or through the Council on matters pertaining to the initiation and development of research and agricultural problems. 
To secure co-operation between the Commonwealth and the Stales and between the States themselves with respect to quarantine measures relating to pests and diseases of plants and animals and to advise the Commonwealth and State governments with respect thereto. 
The last-mentioned function is one of the Standing Committee's normal functions and does not really come within the ambit of the motion that we are considering. The first 2 functions are the important ones. They cover all the matters that are of concern to primary producers. Those functions give the Standing Committee the means by which it could produce a finding which would be of value to the Government and which would enable the Government, acting on that expert advice, to do something immediately and to do something that would assist the farmers both in the short term and in the long term. Apart from the slight change in wording to the first part of the Government's amendment, our proposed amendment seeks to insert these words:   . . for the Government to call an emergency meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council to review the present crisis in the countryside and give proper national leadership and end without delay the present uncertainty and current hardship. 
I believe, and the Labor Party believes - I hope the Government also believes - that the calling of an emergency meeting of the Agricultural Council would assist materially in finding solutions to the difficulties which face rural industries at present. 
 Mr Deputy President,  may I take a moment, through you, to apologise to the Acting Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party,  Senator McManus,  for not supplying him with a copy of the terms of this matter of urgency at the beginning of today's sitting. I understand that when it was decided to proceed with this matter today instead of waiting until a discussion of a notice of motion, which would have occurred some weeks from now, I, who possibly would have led for the Opposition in that debate, was not available -I did not arrive at Parliament House until 10 minutes past 2 today - and  Senator O'Byrne  had to sign the motion and proceed with this matter of urgency. That is why a copy of the terms of it was not available to the Acting Leader of the DLP, and I apologise for it. lt seems to me a great pity that we have to raise, as a matter of urgency, something which the Senate dealt with some 12 months ago. The terms of the motion to which we agreed on 29th April 1969 have not been mentioned as yet, so I will read them to the Senate. They are as follows: 
That the Senate is of opinion that the embargo on the export of merinos should nol be removed at this time and that the embargo should remain in force until a majority of those persons affected shall decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  took note of the Senate's motion and for some time he delayed any further action. As honourable senator's are aware, it was intended that merino rams would be offered for sale at the October saleslast year. That was the original intention. However, following on the Senate's decision the Minister decided that he would wait for an expression of opinion by the industry, and he hoped that this would be made through the Australian Wool Industry Conference, because it was the Conference which at the beginning of this whole exercise asked for a relaxation of the ban. The Minister waited for some considerable time, until towards the end of last year, and then he claimed - and I accept his statement - that no objections were raised by the industry, acting through the Australian Wool Industry Conference. So he decided to lift the ban on 1st February of this year. In an address which the Minister gave to the Traralgon branch of the Young Australian Country Party on 20th February, some 19 days after the lifting of the ban, in dealing with this point he said: 
The opposition built up- that is, to the lifting of the ban: and about June last year- and honourable senators will notice that he did not mention the Senate: 
I  decided that we would not proceed until the opponents had had time to resubmit their case to the various constituent organisations of the AWIC and to see whether the AWIC would reconsider the matter. Seven months was allowed for these people to put their case. I saw the AWIC, and they said they had no intention of changing their original decision and wouldn't reconsider it. 
Those are the Minister's words. He did not say that the Conference was asking for opinions. He said that the Conference just would not reconsider the question. 
During the last 12 months Australian sheep breeders and the wool industry generally have expressed opinions opposing the lifting of the ban. I have a copy of a letter written by a person in Richmond, north Queensland. I do not propose to read the letter. Expressions of opinion opposing the lifting of the ban have come from as far afield as Richmond and have extended from there to my home State of Western Australia, where the situation is extremely serious according to the farmers. In Western Australia, through letters to the Press and particularly to the farmers' paper the 'Countryman', considerable opposition to the lifting of the ban has been expressed. Quite a number of writers have expressed their opposition. Nobody supporting the lifting of the ban has refuted the opposition to the lifting of the ban, as one might have expected had the desirability of lifting the ban been the general opinion of the industry. People like  Mr Carmichael  Smith from Arthur River have written to the Countryman'. Most of the people who write object lo the fact that they do not have representation on the AWIC. The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  in his speech, mentioned that 5 members of the AWIC were members of the Farmers Union. He said they would express the point of view of the Farmers Union. Does that mean that because I am a member of the Farmers Union and am also a member of the Australian Labor Party, I express the point of view of the Farmers Union in this chamber? 
Neither were these 5. They were not appointed by the Farmers Union. They were not voted to the AWIC by the Farmers Union. I was voted here. 

 - Senator Young will have his chance afterwards. If people are appointed to the AWIC contrary to the Act,. I think we could take this matter further. According to the Act, the AWIC has 25 members appointed by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and 25 members appointed by the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. In neither case are they appointed by the Farmers Union of Western Australia. If the Farmers Union appointed members of the AWIC, something would need to be looked into. I referred to  Mr Carmichael  Smith of 'Bundaleer', Arthur River. I do not propose to read all of his letter, but I intend to refer to one point because it seems to express quite a general feeling on the part of wool growers in Western Australia. He wrote: 
The proposal that a referendum of wool growers' opinions should be held would give those members of the industry who do form the majority the opportunity of refuting the incredible claims made by the 'export our merinos' faction. 
This section seems to base its arguments mainly on the pronouncements of the AWIC which they also claim, is the voice of the wool growing industry but which, in fact, it is not. 
The reason is that this body has so discredited itself in the eyes of the wool growers that it has been completedly discounted by them as being anything other than a stooge organisation and a danger to the industry. 
 Mr H. 
Carmichael Smith of 'Bundaleer', Arthur River.  Senator Prowse  should ask him how he came to that opinion. That seems to be the general opinion of a large number of wool growers with whom I have been in touch and who have come to me. Another person wrote on the same subject. I will not read ail the letter, but it is worth reading.  Mr C.  B. Ball of 'Glenalbyn', Katanning, who is also a wool grower, wrote: 
The Federal Government later helped to engineer the AWIC - a gerrymandered setup giving 50% representation to the 15% minority organisation - the graziers - and called this 'the voice of the industry". 
That feeling is quite general. A little over 12 months ago, when the matter was first presented to the Farmers Union of Western Australia, at ils conference, if agreed lo the lifting of the ban. From the presentation of the case that was made in favour of the lifting of the ban it appeared that that would be a good thing. The minutes of this conference of the Farmers Union indicate a bit of a stampede in the way the decision was carried. I invite honourable senators from Western Australia to look at the minutes of the conference of the Farmers Union on that occasion. After 12 months, when the members had had time to think over the matter they overwhelmingly rejected their previous decision and came out in favour of the retention of the ban. lt is very interesting to note that a conference in Perth of the Young Liberals of Western Australia earlier this year carried a resolution opposing the lifting of the ban on merino rams. I know the Parliamentary Liberal Party is not bound by decisions of the various branches of the Party or by decisions of its conferences. That is written into its constitution. But it is interesting to note that the Young Liberals realised the importance of retaining the ban. 
The Minister mentioned the number of rams sold. I agree entirely with the figures that he gave. They are well known. I am astounded to learn that there is so much agitation to get this small number of rams exported when approximately 500,000 rams were offered for sale in the year that the Minister cited, 1968. That figure is a generally accepted one. Why does the Government want to lift the ban? 1 think it is obvious lo most people that if a high standard is set - and standard is determined by prices - for some of the rams, obviously all the prices for rams will rise. Although the 270,000 rams that were not sold in 1968 would not be sold if the ban were lifted, the lifting of the ban means that the price for those sold wilt be higher than it would have been otherwise. Obviously this is the main reason why the Government wants to lift the ban on the export of some of the rams. The number sold will nol be considerable, but the prices recieved will affect the price of flock rams and costs throughout the whole of the industry. 
If the Government's claim that the lifting of the ban on the export of rams overseas will improve the quality of the merino wool available on the world market, thereby creating a greater demand for wool and leading to a higher price for our wool, had any substance, the argument advanced by the Minister knocks that claim on the head. He said that in Western Australia rams imported from Tasmania will not produce (he same high quality wool. He said that we need not bother about the rams exported overseas. We do not know. At ' this stage how do we know what will happen to the flocks in South Africa under conditions that would be suitable for the growing of high grade and quality wool? That is what we have to study. The Senate made a decision, after consideration, 12 months ago opposing the lifting of the ban on merino rams, lt seems lo me quite logical that we should repeat the decision that was -made. We should carry it with greater numbers than last rime. Other people have had 12 months in which to think the situation over. They are now prepared to support us in raising this matter of urgency. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. On 14tb April the Minister for Primary Industry issued a Press statement in which he said he expected to introduce legislation to enable Western Australia to commence the marginal dairy farms reconstruction plan at an early date. Can the Minister give any information about when this legislation may be expected? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls the Jaw which allows transactions carried out on Norfolk Island to be tax free now being used by financial interests situated in Australia lo operate in a way which was never intended. 
Does the Treasurer propose to examine and amend the legislation to prevent the loss of considerable revenue. 
 The Bill that is now before us will, without doubt, create a lot of interest throughout the rural community and I think that it is advisable when we are having a look at a Bill of this nature to examine the attitude of members of the public generally who are involved in it. What are their reactions and what are the demands that they have brought forward up to the present time? Anybody who has moved around in the rural districts and rural communities in Australia - that would include the majority of senators - will have been interested to discuss with primary producers the problems they are facing at the present time. 
I am dealing mainly with primary producers. It is interesting to discover that on every occasion, after they have dealt with low prices, high costs, the cost-price squeeze and tariffs and have hammered the people who have come to address them on the problems of rural industry, inevitably at the end they want to discuss the matter of probate duty. Much interesting informed and uninformed thinking goes on with regard to probate duty or estate duty, as it is called in the Commonwealth sphere. The opinions that are held on this question are really surprising. I put them down under 3 main headings. They concern mainly the smaller primary producers who find the greatest difficulty in meeting probate duty when the head of the family and owner of the farm dies. 
The first matter with which they are concerned is the low valuation at which probate duty becomes assessable and the rate of probate duty. They are also concerned with the demand for payment. Of course, they are all living people and not people who have died. Their general impression, which is quite incorrect, is that probate duty has to be paid practically on demand and that this means that, if they have not substantial funds or liquid assets, some or all of the property has to be sold in order to meet the demand for probate duty. The third concern of primary producers with whom I have discussed the matter - I have had quite some difficulty in trying to convince them otherwise - is that, when an estate passes from a husband to a wife or son and the person to whom it has passed unfortunately also dies within a very short period, probate duty is payable again. 
These arguments are all met generally under the Act as it exists at the present time, with the exception of the first 1 I mentioned. We know that at the present time a period of 2 years is allowed for the payment of the duty. This takes away the first cause for concern. At the same time, the amendments that we have before us now will widen those provisions. I approve of that. They will make it possible for the period of payment of the duty to be extended. This has been brought out quite well in the second reading speech made by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  It is to be subject to the determination of the Commissioner of Taxation after he has heard the circumstances of the case. This is a good point that is incorporated in this Bill. Also, variations are being made so that liability for estate duty will be narrowed and rebates will be allowed to people who are either in rural industry on a smaller scale or in a business proposition that comes within the ambit of this legislation. 
In introducing this Bill the Government has met the first argument which is raised by farmers and which I mentioned a short while ago, namely, that the point at which probate or estate duty becomes payable should be raised. The amount has been increased by 20%. Possibly people in the rural community and in small businesses will feel that in the light of the increase in land values this is not a reasonable variation. They will feel that this amendment should have gone very much further. But this Bill does provide for an alteration which is to the benefit of the producer. In the Bill we also have a definition of a bona fide rural producer, namely, a person who obtains in excess of 50% of his gross income from rural industry. Such people will be eligible for the rebates that the Bill envisages. 
As is well known to honourable senators, estate duty is applied by the Commonwealth; but in addition each State applies its own probate duty. It is very difficult for the ordinary man in the street to distinguish between 1 tax and the other. That is why he feels that this is an imposition and that his estate will be asked to bear much more than it should. Income from estate duty represents only a small portion of total Commonwealth income. It is only about $50m per annum in the total Commonwealth income of about $5,000m. So it represents only about 1%. A greater measure of assistance than has been given could have been given to people in smaller businesses and primary producers.I think the Minister pointed out in her second reading speech that the relief granted by this Bill would be of the order of $8m per annum. It seems to me that, with estate duty producing such a small section of the total Commonwealth income, greater assistance could have been given in this Bill. The Opposition is going to move an amendment to the Estate Duty Assessment Bill. I feel that one should have a broader look at this Bill. The Bill as presented is a good Bill but the Opposition considers it is not going far enough. It does not take into account the fact that the various States have their own rates of duty. The States impose these rates quite independently of the Commonwealth. The whole subject of estate duty throughout the Commonwealth should be looked at. If honourable senators look at the amendment which is now being circulated they will see it is along the lines I have just indicated. The Opposition is not objecting to the Bill but it does think it should register its opinion that the Bill should go further and it should provide for an examination of both State and Federal Legislation. I circulated a copy of this amendment to the Government and the Australian Democratic Labor Party Whips earlier this afternoon. On behalf of the Australian Labor Party, I move: 
At end of motion add, ' but, whilst realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24th September 1969 and that this limited Bill offers some measure of relief from death duties in the rural sector, the Senate is of opinion: 
That the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation, 
the particularly critical situation of - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sector, where in both casesa large part of the estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of whichto meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation, and 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States; and 
that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by further amendments ofthe Act.' 
It is obvious from this amendment that the Opposition is not opposing the measure before the Senate. However, in view of the circumstances in which estate duty and probate duty are imposed on each estate at the time of death, the Opposition feels there should be some co-ordination and some thinking about this. In Western Australia I think probate duty, on an average, amounts to about $6m a year. This is a very small amount we are dealing with but  it  is a matter which is of tremendous concern to the farming community and people with small businesses. I think that although many people would press the case for small businesses, the proposition mainly concerns the rural industry. Rural industries are in the unenviable position that their assets are very difficult to divide for the purpose of paying probate duty. In some very difficult cases the property has to be sold in order to meet this duty. I am quite ready to admit that this amending legislation empowers the 
Commissioner of Taxation to investigate a situation in an individual case. 1 think he is quite prepared to make allowances where there is need, to extend the payments over a considerable period. The provision for a limitation of 2 years as set out in the original Act will be deleted. 
I hope the Government will give consideration to the Opposition's amendment and see the value in it. This is something that the rural community is concerned about, ft is very difficult to separate State probate duty from Federal estate duty. The taxpayer regards them as the same thing. The federal tax does not apply until the estate attains a pretty high value. In the States the duty is applicable on much smaller estates. In the minds of beneficiaries of estates these duties come together. This is a matter that ought to be looked at. Some sort of legislation should bc introduced which will help the farming family retain control of the property without having to realise on it in order to meet death duty, because this duty can be quite considerable. 1 hope the Government will feel favourably moved towards our amendment and will look at it from the point of view of trying to bring some co-ordination between State and Federal laws, perhaps by holding a conference. This would help the rural community. The Australian Labor Party does nol oppose the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. In view of the rapid and continuing development of trade between Australia and Japan, in which Western Australia is particularly involved, will the Minister consider setting up an independent Australian News and Information Bureau in Tokyo similar to those operating so well in London and New York? 
asked the Minis  ter  representing the Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In reference tothe new Indian-Pacific Express why were there no Opposition Senators or Federal Members front Western Australia on the V.I.P. train when some had expressed a wish to be associated with the inaugural journey. 
Why was the defeated member for Grey a guest on the train but the present member for Grey was not. 
Why was official recognition given to the Honourable the Minister for Social Services for his part in promoting the project and none to the late Honourable E. J. Ward, whose Bill it was that authorised the building of the line. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice: 
What is the total financial assistance being given by the Commonwealth Government to the dairying industry throughout Australia during the financial year 1969-70. 
in reply - The Opposition has no objection to that procedure. I am quite prepared to support the Bill, as presented, on behalf of the Opposition. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reada second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Progress reported. 
I wish to take part in the debate. My remarks will be brief. During the last 2 days the Senate has been debating the Moratorium demonstration under the device of the debate on the first reading of this Bill, which enables us to speak on any subject. I have listened with some concern to the arguments which have been put forward, particularly on the Government side of the chamber, without any substantiation of fact. These statements are based on the fact that certain things have happened in the past. Because honourable senators opposite keep on saying the same thing some people are inclined to agree with them without looking back to see what the actual facts were. I am not going to say that the conclusions which honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber reached on their reading of (he facts as presented are necessarily incorrect. It is possible to read another interpretation into the facts which have been presented. I think, for the record, it is advisable to submit some of these facts and the conclusions which other people have drawn from them in their support of the Moratorium Campaign. I draw attention to the Geneva Accords and read part of Article 1 which states: 
A provisional military demarcation line shall be fixed, on either side of which the forces of the two parties shall be regrouped after their withdrawal, the forces of the People's Army of Vietnam to the north of the line and the forces of the French Union to the south. 
It is obvious that this Accord was an agreement reached between the forces of Vietnam and the forces of the French Republic. No other people were involved. North and South Vietnam which we now consider 2 separate entities were not considered as such at that time. The Accords did nol consider them as 2. The forces of Vietnam were opposing the forces of the French Republic. 
I turn now to the Final Declaration of the Geneva Conference which was held on 21st July 1954. The Kingdom of Cambodia, the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, France, the Kingdom of Laos, the People's Republic of China, the State of Vietnam, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the United States were represented at that conference. They all agreed, by voice vote as no actual showing of hands or signatories was required - and I am reading from clause 7 of the Final Declaration: 
In order to ensure that sufficient progress in the restoration of peace has been made, and that all the necessary conditions obtain for free expression of the national will, general elections shall be held in July, 1956, under the supervision of an international commission . . . 
Clause 7 then goes on to give the details of the international commission. This was an agreement reached by the Geneva Conference. The United States which did not sign the Accords produced a statement of its own, a unilateral declaration, in which it said: 
. declares with regard to the aforesaid agreements and paragraphs that (i) it will refrain from the threat or the use of force to disturb them, in accordance with Article  2  (4) of the Charter of the United Nations . . . 
I now come to the point of America and Australia being involved in the situation in Vietnam. A number of reasons for this involvement has been given over the past years. One by one these reasons have been discontinued as evidence for our right to be there. One reason was given by our then Minister for External Affairs who is now our Governor-General. He claimed that Australia was there under the provisions of the South-East Asia Treaty Organisation. This reason was abandoned when someone drew attention to the effect of the SEATO agreement. Article IV of the schedule attached to the South-East Asia Collective Defence Treaty, which was ratified by an 
Act of this Parliament assented to on 18th November 1954, states: 
Each Party recognises (hat aggression by means of armed attack in the treaty area against any of the Parties or agai'nst any State or territory which the Parties by unanimous agreement may hereafter designate .. . . Measures taken under this paragraph shall be immediately reported to the Security Council of the United Nations. 
I want to emphasise 2 points here. Firstly, the agreement had to be unanimous, and, secondly, any measures taken had to be referred immediately to the Security Council of the United Nations. 
There was no unanimous agreement. The only countries which have agreed are the United States, Australia, New Zealand and the Philippines. South Korea has now come in, although it was not a signatory. I go further to clause 2 df Article IV in the Schedule to the Act. We find, again, that when there is a threat of armed attack the parties shall consult immediately and the member nations of the South East Asia Collective Defence Treaty shall come together immediately in order to agree. Again there must be agreement on the action that should be taken. Sub-clause 3 of Article IV states: 
ft is understood that no action on the territory of any State designated by unanimous agreement under paragraph 1 of this Article. . . . 
I have read these Articles to show both sides of the subject. I have put my interpretation on them, and I think my opinion is every bit as Valid as the opinions held by the Government supporters. I think the reasons I have given are valid because I have provided documentary foundation for them. 
When this basis for our right to be in Vietnam under SEATO was abandoned the next claim which was made was that Australia had been invited by the Government of South Vietnam to come to its assistance. This claim was generally considered to be reasonable until doubts were raised in the minds of members of the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.  Senator Fulbright,  the  Chairman  of the Committee, wrote to the Secretary of State on 12th May 1969 asking what were the terms of the request which was made by South Vietnam to come to- its assistance. I quote part of the letter which  Senator 
Fulbright wrote to the United Stales Secretary of State: 
Dear  Mr Secretary:  As you know, questions have been raised, from time to time, concerning the circumstances under which United States combat forces were first sent to Vietnam. In the recently released 'Report on the War in Vietnam', General Westmoreland - 
It was as a result of this report by General Westmoreland that the Committee questioned the legality of the claim that we had been invited into the conflict by the Government of South Vietnam.  Senator Fulbright  in his letter then quoted part of the report. I will not quote it because there is nothing in it. The  Senator concluded: 
I was unable to find any reference in General Westmoreland's account of a formal request from the South Vietnamese government for US intervention wilh combat troops. For the Committee's record, would you please provide copies of any such request received from that government. 
Sincerely yours, 
W. FULBRIGHT, 
Chairman 
That letter was sent on 12th May and it took until 2nd September, which is practically 4 months later, for a reply to come from the Department of State. The reply, which is a much longer letter, dissembles with regard to the question and comes down with the information that there was no actual request by South Vietnam. We pick this point up where the letter states: 
The continuing analysis to which I have referred, and the series of decisions resulting from it, were made in close and constant consultation with the Government of Vietnam. The process of analysing the situation by the 2 governments, and the consultation and agreement thereon, were such as to be regarded by our government as constituting a request from the Government of South Vietnam. 
The Department of State could find no actual request that American forces should be there. The next thing that disturbs me - these are points that have been brought forward in the debate - is the question of the legality of being there. A lot of this assumption of legality in the American Senate was based on the fact that there was an incident which came be known as the Gulf of Tonkin incident which occurred in 1964. This incident was reported almost instantaneously to the Senate. It resulted in a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives in which the  President  was practically given unlimited funds to conduct the war in Vietnam. It was not for 4 years that some doubts arose as to whether the recording of the events which had occurred in 1964 was accurate. So the 
Senate Committee on Foreign Relations went into this matter and then reported its findings to the Senate. 
We find on page SI 589 of the Senate Congressional Record  Senator Morse  establishing a case with regard to the Tonkin incident in reply to some statements that were made by  Mr McNamara  who, of course, was not a member of Congress. He had made the statements and  Senator Morse  was taking exception to them because he was involved. I note here that substantial evidence is given in this report by  Senator Morse  that the Gulf of Tonkin incident did not occur as was reported. There was considerable doubt about its having occurred in the way in which it was reported to have occurred. It was blown up for the sake of getting the United States House of Representatives and the Seriate to approve this mighty expenditure which actually brought the United States so heavily into the campaign. These records are available for anybody to read. They are in our Library. I will not quote from them but they are contained in pages S159I, 1592 and 1593 of the Congressional Record of the Senate and I submit that these should be looked at when anybody is trying to find out the facts of the situation with regard to the American involvement and our involvement in Vietnam. Now, I just have a word to say about Cambodia. I bring Cambodia into the debate because  Senator Cotton  mentioned yesterday or the day before that he had been there at about the same time last year as I was there and he drew different conclusions from the ones that I drew. I have here a White Paper issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Cambodia. It is written in French so I cannot incorporate it in Hansard but I will translate the statements that 1 want honourable senators to hear. 
It is not bad. The point that I want to bring up here is that this White Paper claims that there were American and South Vietnamese - it does not distinguish between the two but refers to both - action on the border and over the border into Cambodia which had resulted over some years in considerable damage and loss of life as well as woundings. I am prepared to table this document in the Senate. There is photographic evidence as well as the claims that are made in respect of each of the provinces. I would point out that the claims that were made and substantiated - by photographs, by captured prisoners, by evidence of a helicopter being shot down, by shells that had American markings on them and so on - were, in the view of the Cambodian Government, sufficient proof that this damage had been caused by the American and South Vietnamese forces involved in these actions. 'The first photographs were taken at Svay Rieng which, as honourable senators know, is just north of the Parrot's Beak area where most of the conflict is at the present time. They go back to 16th June 1962 and 25th October of the same year. In 1963 there were 2 more incidents, on 9th April and 19th August. In 1964 there were 6 incidents on 4th February, 19th March, 7th May, 11th June, 5th September and 20th October, all in that area which borders the provinces of Svay Rieng and Kampong Cham which we have been reading about in the newspapers. In 1965 there were 3, on 2 1 st March, 28th April, and 15th October in approximately the same area, although one of them was at Kampot In 1966 there were 6 incidents on 3 1st July, 7th September, 20th September, 22nd November and 30th December. These translations are easy to make. In 1967 there were 11, all in the same area. In 1968 there were, I think. 14 and in 1969 there were 2, on 11th March and 23rd May. Then there was the defoliant aggression in April and May. It was about that time that I was in Cambodia and went into this area to have a look. I am prepared to table this document if honourable senators wish. 
Yes. I would think the Department of External Affairs would have a copy of it. 
I was just coming to that. I am very interested in all that  has  been going on about the Vietcong headquarters and the mighty communications  centre  which was  in  this area. This document was not produced, of course, until I  came  back to Australia but I knew something of the complaints that had been made by Prince Norodom Sihanouk to America through the Australian Embassy of infringements of the border and the destruction which had occurred, so I went and saw General Lon Nol - I think it was on 23 rd May - and I spent three-quarters of an hour with him. I asked permission to go down into this area and see for myself what had taken place instead of reading what was in the newspapers. General Lon Nol was very co-operative but he said: 'It is not much use going down there because there is nothing there.' General Lon Nol, the present President of Cambodia, said that. He also said: 'All you will find will be graves. They do not mean anything. You will find destruction. That does not mean anything. The evidence of shells has been collected and has been removed. It would not mean anything.' Those photographs were taken at the time. There was nothing to be seen when I would have been able to go there. He said: 'You can have a look at footprints which have been kept, but what do they mean? It would be much more valuable for you to look at the defoliation'. 
It will be remembered that following my return I raised this subject under a subterfuge during the debate on another Bill. I saw the defoliation which had occurred in the Fish Hook area which is just north of the Parrot's Beak area. I flew over 250,000 acres of the area. You could see everything because the defoliation treatment had removed all the leaves from the trees. There was no difficulty in seeing the ground. I went to Kampot, Krek and to Snuol which has now been wiped out. I saw the people there and was convinced that they were honest friendly Buddhists who wanted peace and were not interested in the war. Incidentally, they were all Vietnamese. [ asked Prince Norodom Sihanouk before I went there what nationality the people were. He told mc that there were some half a million Vietnamese in Cambodia, loyal Cambodians but of Vietnamese descent. They were people who were devoted to Prince Norodom. This is a problem with which we will be faced because those people are in Cambodia. I am very disturbed at what is happening in Cambodia. I am very proud to have been friends with many of the people there. I still am their friend. 
I recommend to honourable senators that they read a book entitled 'Sarkhan' written by a man named Lederer who is one of the foreign affairs editors of. 'Readers Digest' and therefore not by any means left wing. In the book he is trying to disturb the American people into a recognition of the facts in relation to the countries concerned. He believes that they are being hoodwinked by incorrect statements and by propaganda. I would recommend this book as reading for all honourable senators because it contains most valuable information. I have tried today to indicate that from the facts that I have read - I take it that they are similar to the facts which have been read by members of the Government - I have come to other conclusions in a quite honest approach to the situation. I feel that they should be put on record not, as has been said in the past couple of days, by a lot of rhetoric which has not been substantiated by the presentation of any facts. I have brought these things forward by the same subterfuge as has been adopted by every other honourable senator who has participated in the debates in the past 2 days in order to record my idea of why I, and many others in the Labor Party, have been supporting the Moratorium Campaign. 
This Bill is, of course, a little Budget. It is a measure which is necessary to meet in the coming months commitments which were not covered by the Budget last year. The additional expenditure is due to causes which were outside the control of the Government at the time the Budget was brought down. The amount of $90,053,000 which is being sought is for expenditure on a number of matters which, as I have already pointed out, could not have been foreseen at the time of the preparation of the Budget. For instance, an additional $22m is being sought to meet wage and salary increases in the Commonwealth Public Service. There is to be additional expenditure of $4.4m on immigration which was not envisaged previously. I am dealing only with the larger amounts. An additional $2.2m is to be allocated to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I presume that this additional expenditure is also due to increases in salaries and wages because the normal cost of running the ABC for 12 months seems fairly well defined. The additional $5m for shipbuilding probably does not come within the category of increases in wages and salaries, but it is a necessary expenditure in view of the shipbuilding programme in which we are involved. I think everybody will agree to, and accept without question, the additional $1. 3m for grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act. In the realm of defence there is also a significant requirement for extra money to meet wage and salary increases. Two-thirds of the $30.8m which is being sought is to meet wage and salary increases. Of course, these wage and salary increases could not have been envisaged last year. 
I do not think that there is very much one can say in speaking to this Bill because obviously the requirements are there and they have to be met. However, this Bill does give me an opportunity to mention 2 matters which I feel are significant at present. I am not going to belabour them, but I do feel that they should be recorded as being matters which the Opposition feels are getting out of hand. The first matter to which I refer is the increase in interest rates, which is imposing a very serious burden on the lower income groups, particularly people who are building homes. In the last few years interest rates have been increased by The extra charges involved are quite a tragedy for people who are building their own homes. 
The second matter I wish to stress is that it is now 3 years since the Treasury informed the then Treasurer that a very careful look should be had at the taxation schedule, particularly in relation to the low and middle income groups. In the Budget Speech some 3 years ago the then Treasurer did envisage that some relief would be given to these groups in the succeeding Budget. In the following Budget Speech he said exactly the same thing, but nothing was put into effect. In his policy speech during the last election campaign the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  again referred to the necessity for a rescheduling of the taxation scale to reduce the income tax burden on the lower and middle income groups. Again he, too, said that such a provision would be included in the next Budget. The phrase 'next Budget' seems to be a phrase which falls very glibly from the tongues of the former Treasurer and the Prime Minister. In view of the situation in which we find ourselves at present in relation to the national economy I hope that these 2 matters in particular will be given very serious consideration. I refer to the increases in interest rates, which are placing such a heavy burden on people building their own homes and the taxation charges imposed on the lower and middle income groups. 
The Opposition does not propose to hold up the passage of this Bill, which is necessary for the smooth working of the economy. Having said that, I conclude by saying that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
May I ask the Minister a question through you,  Mr Temporary  Chairman? I am sorry 1 omitted to mention this during the second reading debate. I said that the increases were largely due to increases in salaries and wages and that was for, in general, an amount of $20m, and in the case of the defence services also some $20m. ls it correct to say that a significant portion of this increase is due to extra staff? J think there was some question of extra staff being taken on. This would explain why it is necessary to have the Appropriation Bill. 1 am trying to get in my mind the valid reasons why we have this extra appropriation, ls that a significant point? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. As the General Assembly of the United Nations has designated 1971 as the International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination will the Government make an early statement on whether it will actively support this decision, which would be in line with Australia's subscription to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When will the legislation be introduced to enable Western Australia to commence the marginal dairy farm reconstruction plan which, on 14 April, the Minister anticipated would be introduced at an early date. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is it anticipated that the facility of subscriber trunk dialling to 
Western Australia will commence on 1st July as previously indicated? If not, when may it be expected? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In view of the rapid and continuing development of trade between Australia and Japan, in which Western Australia is particularly involved, will the Prime Minister consider setting up an independent Australian News and Information Bureau in Tokyo similar to those operating so well in London and New York. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it anticipated that Subscriber Trunk Dialling to Western Australia will commence on 1st July, as previously indicated; if not, when will it commence. 
Testing of the new East- West telephone channels is now taking place, the Subscriber Trunk Dialling will be available between the Eastern States and Western Australia from Friday, 10th July. 
This scheme, the subject of the Bill, is something that dairy fanners of Australia have been seeking for a long lime. The scheme was envisaged early in 1968 when the Ministerfor Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made some suggestions for re-organisation of the dairying industry. Those suggestions were hailed by the dairying industry as a way out of a very serious predicament which had been getting worse for some years. The Opposition will not oppose the Bill butI wish to make some comments about the industry as a whole. The Agreement between Western Australia and the Commonwealth, to which the Bill gives effect, has a number of desirable features but in my opinion and in the opinion of many dairy farmers it does not go far enough. When the scheme wasfirst mentioned bythe Minister for Primary Industry the Stale Ministers for Agriculture rather rushed in and drew certain conclusions aboutthe effects of the scheme. Unfortunately I think they arrived at some incorrect conclusions. 
I vividly remember attending a crowded meeting in Busselton inthe first half of 1968 soon after the Minister for Primary Industry made an announcement about the scheme. I have referred to that meeting on other occasions in the Senate.  Mr Nalder,  Western Australian Minister for Agriculture, assuredthe meeting, which consisted of 200 or 300 dairy farmers, that the sum of . $25m which would be made available to reorganise the dairying industry would, in the main, be devoted to development. AlthoughI was only a visitor at the meetingI obtained leave to speak to the dairy farmers.I pointed out that as far asI knew there was no intention to devote the money to be provided under the scheme to expansion of the industry. As far asI could see at that time - subsequent events have proved me right - the money was to be devoted to enabling marginal dairy farmers to leave the industry if they so desired. The land which would then be acquired by the Authority would be available to viable farmers who would be able to take up this land and develop their own properties into bigger and more effective propositions. This was not accepted with any enthusiasm by the meeting. Nevertheless, what I said was correct and it is borne out by the Bill which we have before us. 
As honourable senators appreciate, the intention of the Bill is that a sum of $25m should be made available over a period of 4 years. It would be made availableto the States that are willing to en er into the agreement with the Commonwealth on the basisthat is set forward. Ever since the idea was promulgated by the Minister he endeavoured to getthe co-operation of the State Ministers for Agriculture in the scheme. However, he was unsuccessful until fairly recently when the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture intimated that he would be prepared to sign an agreement on this basis.I am still alittle concerned as to whether the Western Australian Minister realises what it is he is signing, because only recently he made a statement that he was opposed to mergers and that he was out to protect the interests of the smaller and marginal dairy farmer on his property.I checked back on this because it appears quite publicly in the Press. I found out that it was not made at any meeting and it was not made in Parliament in Western Australia. The Minister admitted that this was his opinion at the time and the statement was made in responseto a telephone call from the newspaper concerned. Even soI think that he is of the opinion that an agreement between Western Australia and the Commonwealth can be used for development, although there are within it the necessary clauses which only enable the marginal dairy farmer voluntarily to leave his property and have it bought by the Authority if he comes within the definition of the marginal dairy farmer. 
The purposes of the Bill are twofold. They are set out in a very straightforward manner in the Minister's second reading speech which was incorporated in Hansard. First of all, it is to enable low income dairy farmers who voluntarily wish to do so to leave the industry and to receive a fair price for their land and improvements: and, secondly, after the writing off of redundant assets, to make the land and useful improvements available to other farmers so that they can build up their properties to a viable family farm level and, where possible, diversify the pattern of land use. Those are 2 very desirable objectives and they are covered quite adequately by this Bill. For the definition of a marginal dairy farm, I would direct the attention of honourable senators to the summary which is in the Minister's second reading speech. He lists the 4 criteria which determine a marginal dairy farm. 
This is on page 1988. 1 am glad the honourable senator is aware of the argument that I am bringing forward and is following it diligently. As I said, the criteria which determine a marginal dairy farm are - I will not quote them in full but just give the salient features - firstly, it must of course be a rural property; secondly, it must have some minimum number of cows, and the number suggested as a minimum is 20 lactating cows; thirdly, at least half of the gross income of the farm must be derived from the production of milk or cream sold at the manufacturing price; and, fourthly, the farm is not reasonably capable of producing to a level agreed between the Commonwealth and the State, In the case of Western Australia this has been determined as an average of 12,000 lb of butterfat per annum. Those are the main objectives of the Bill and the definition of a marginal form. 
I will now turn to the agreement, which is to be read in conjunction with the Bill. This is again spelt out for the benefit of the marginal dairy farmer. On the first page of the agreement in (b) we have set out that under the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme dairy farmers may voluntarily dispose of their land and implements to the State at market value and the State may dispose of the land and useful improvements with the object of building up other rural properties to economic levels. Those are the features that I want to take up because I think they are very important.  J  entirely agree with them and I subscribe to them. When the farmer has disposed of his property to the Authority in line with the provisions of the Bill this land with its improvements would be available to any other farmer to purchase. He would be able to purchase it without the value of the improvements that are on it so that we do not have 2 adjacent dairy farms with the capital expenditure for 2 milking plants, milking sheds and such matters being duplicated. Of course, the Bill provides that these improvements could be sold if it were possible for the Authority to get a buyer who would take it al a reasonable figure; otherwise I gather they would remain on the property. 
There is a limitation on the size of the dairy farm which would be in existence after another property had been purchased. The farm we would then have, with the property taken over by the Authority from the marginal dairy farmer, must not exceed twice the minimum size which has been determined for a viable dairy farm in the particular State. I think that I should say that this is not an entirely new scheme, in Western Australia, and I think also in New South Wales, there have been schemes for reconstruction of the dairy industry and endeavours have been made to get dairy farmers out of the difficult situation in which they are finding themselves. These schemes have been successful up to a point. Of course, they have been limited by the amount of finance available. In Western Australia, where we have had a scheme in operation to assist the smaller dairy farms, the State has spent Sim. But of course this is not to be compared with the amount that could be available from the Commonwealth. In this case if no other States come in and subscribe to the Bill it is quite possible - this will probably frighten some of the other States - that the whole $25m could become available to Western Australia over the period of 4 years. It is interesting to note that Tasmania already is seriously entering into negotiations with the Commonwealth to see whether it can be included in the scheme. Although it has some reservations as to the term 'marginal dairy farm', I think in due course these will be ironed out.I believe that New South Wales also is looking at the situation. 
Another point in the Bill which needs to be mentioned in the question whether the amount advanced by the Commonwealth is to be an absolute gift or a loan. The amount to be made available to a State is to be equal to the amount that the State is prepared to contribute. The agreement provides that the State has to agree to pay back 50% of the amount advanced by the Commonwealth, repayment to be made over 46 half-yearly periods, and interest at the rate of  6%  is to be payable on the amount advanced by the Commonwealth. Some of the States will object to having to pay back to the Commonwealth such a large proportion of the amount. Some probably believe that the amount to be advanced is a gift, but of course this is not so. 
Yes. 
The Minister mentioned it in his second reading speech, but of course this has to be read in conjunction with the agreement. At page 14 of the roneoed copy of the agreement under the heading 'Financial Arrangements' clause 17 states: 
Subject to compliance by the State and the Authority with the provisions of this agreement the Commonwealth shall in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this agreement provide financial assistance to the State  of  a total sum of Twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) available to all the States in respect of a period of four years from-- 
The date would have to be filled in. It continues:  consisting of - 
amounts equal  to  the amounts expended by the Authority, before the expiration of the said period of  four  years . . . 
That refers to an equal amount. 
Yes, that is correct. I have just said that. The States will have to repay half of what is paid to them, but also they will have to pay an amount equivalent to that provided by the Commonwealth. These are the 2 points in which I believe  Senator Webster  was interested. 
Yes. I think this is a quite important point. 
I have looked quite carefully at this. Perhaps the Minister will be able to deal with this point in his reply. We will be rising for dinner shortly and I may be able to check the matter. However, my study of it suggested that the States would have to provide the same amount as was being provided by the Commonwealth. 1 shall certainly check on that and raise the matter again when we resume tonight. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
When we rose for dinnerI had stated that in my opinion the Bill and the Agreement were based on the fact that the State would provide a certain amount of money for the takeover of farms and that this amount would be met by a similar contribution from the Commonwealth. The Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  objected to my interpretation and I said right at the death knock that during the dinner break I would determine what I felt the position really was. I have done so. I believe my interpretation is still correct although I do agree that it is probably not what the Minister intended in presenting the Bill. In the second reading speech there is no reference at all to this matter that I have raised, but the Agreement states at page  14:  . . the Commonwealth shall . . . provide financial assistance . . . consisting of - 
amounts equal to the amounts expended by the Authority ... as the price of land . . . acquired by the Authority under the Scheme; 
That seems to be perfectly straightforward; it is an amount equal to the amounts expended by the authority, which is a State authority. Clause  6 (1.)  of the Bill states: 
The payments by the Commonwealth . . . shall be amounts equal to the amounts expended by the Slate ... as the price of land . . . acquired by the State under the scheme. 
So 1 think the interpretation which I am putting on it, although it is perfectly logical and legal, is not what was intended when the Bill was introduced. The Bill should have been more carefully drafted, and perhaps the Minister may be prepared to agree that this should be straightened out. I will not state the terms which I think should be used but it does seem to me that it could be phrased in such a way that it is beyond doubt, because in the final analysis someone will interpret legally what the Bill says and not what is said in the second reading speech or the inferences of the second reading speech. That has explained the Bill. 
I now want to deal quickly in the time left to me with some objections I see to the Bill, because it does not go far enough in its coverage. The first objection that really disturbs me is that when a farmer has acquired the land which has been taken over by the authority and then wants to go ahead and develop it or raise some finance even to pay it off, there is no provision for making such amounts available to him. He will not be provided with the finance to develop this property which has been granted to him because he has the opportunity of making a viable unit of the whole farm. This is one very important thing. Another point that is very important is that we are going to add the now homeless farmer who has sold his property to the list of home seekers somewhere else, probably in the metropolitan area or, hopefully, in a country area where he might retire or find another occupation. He will have to place himself  on  the long waiting list of people looking for houses and no effort is made and no encouragement is given in the Bill to the State governments to expand their building programme. 
The third objection is that the Bill does not provide for what could be necessary retraining of the farmer when he has left his dairying property to make him a useful member of the community. This seems to be extremely important; otherwise we will have people with very little knowledge of technology or of a trade moving into the community and not taking up positions where they will be of value to the community. Finally, I do not think that this legislation solves the main problem of the industry, that is, over-production at a time when we have under-consumption. I feel the world could absorb more milk products but we have not solved the problem of distribution. This Bill makes no effort to solve that problem. Although it will take the marginal farmer out of existence, it will noi really cut his land out of dairy production if the person taking over the land wishes to continue dairying and has another property he wishes to amalgamate with it. 

 Senator Webster has been watching the position very closely in Victoria, which is creating quite a serious situation through the attitude of the Premier to the development of dairy farms. 1 have some information that was passed on to me by  Senator Poyser  who had to leave the Senate unexpectedly, lt relates to the situation in Victoria and was obtained from the research section of the Library. We find that  Victoria is  endeavouring to develop 2 schemes, the Heytesbury scheme and the Rochester scheme which 1 assume honourable senators have heard quite a deal about. Both these schemes are being developed under the Land Settlement Act 1959 by the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission. These have only developed to a certain degree and there is a tremendous amount of development still to take place. For instance, the Heytesbury scheme will have a total of 117,000 acres and at the present time only 67,000 acres have been developed. So there is still a large amount of dairying land or land which people are being encouraged to turn into dairying land in that area. The land at Rochester was purchased by the Rural Finance and Set.lement: Commission and will eventually incorporate 55 dairy holdings; at the present time there are only 9. They are endeavouring to push this up to the full development stage, which will mean further production for an over-produced market. 
In . my view the situation is extremely serious because of the probable entry of Great Britain into the European Economic Community and also in view of the fact that the European Economic Community is moving into the area which has been considered to be our market. For instance, in Ceylon and Indonesia, where we have had quite considerable sales of butter, we are being beaten because the European Economic Community is now selling butter at 23 per cwt. which is a price that we cannot approach. They are moving imo our traditional field. The amount of butter that is expected will be produced in Australia in the next 12 months will be of the order of 230,000 tons. A considerable surplus will be stored in Australia. The world surplus of butter at the present time is about 600,000 tons, which is more than a year's supply for the world. The European Economic Community has in store over 300,000 tons of those 600.000 tons. It is using every endeavour to dispose of that butter on the world markets by undercutting prices. That is the problem we are up against. 
It would assist but I do not think it would result in a considerable improvement. It would assist the situation as far as we are concerned but it would not solve the problem. Our problem at the moment, as 1 see it, is that we have to look realistically at the world's butter fat situation. This is what the Government is trying to do in introducing the Bill, hut the Bill is not going to achieve much. That is the difficulty as I see it. The Bill will help by removing from the situation the marginal dairy farmer who is in difficulties, lt will give him a different opportunity in life. To that extent the measure is a good one. lt will help to make a more viable industry in these areas which now consist of small units. 1 could say a lot more on this measure but I do not want to take up more than my share of the time. I shall conclude, as 
I commenced, by saying that the Opposition supports the Bill. While it has reservations about the effectiveness of the Bill it has no hesitation in supporting it. I hope that the Minister will be able to see my point with regard to the interpretation of the agreement and the Bill as it is written at the present time. 
I omitted to say that I am in substantial agreement with what the Minister says. We find that clause 10, as he has already pointed out, does provide that advances can be made. So, if that is read in conjunction with clause 6 that would correct the position. But I was reading clause 6 in conjunction with clause 4, which seems to put the position the other way around. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I wish to draw attention to clause 6 in the terms 1 have already mentioned. 1 have accepted the reply of the Minister regarding his interpretation of this clause. It does seem to me that the drafting could have been a little more careful. Let us take clause 6 in conjunction with clause 4 which states: 
The Commonwealth may make with any State an agreement providing for the making of payments by the Commonwealth to the State for the purpose of a marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme . . . 
If we take them together we can reach the conclusion that clause 6 is offering money to the States on a$1 for $1 basis. It seems to me - and I am not a draftsman - that it would have been preferable if in clause 6 we had referred to a refund of the amounts that would be paid to the States. I do not intend to propose an amendment; I am merely suggesting that a little more care might be exercised in drafting clauses such as this. To my mind, this is an ambiguous clause. Having said that, the Minister can be assured that I accept his explanation. However, in any future discussion or appeal about what this clause means it is the Act itself which will be considered and not the Minister's second reading speech or the Minister's reply. Therefore the wording of the Act should be without doubt and it is for this reason I bring the matter forward. As the Minister has said, in other agreements to be made with the States this matter may be taken into consideration and may be rectified. I merely draw the attention of the Committee to this point. 
1 think it is quite wise that we should lake all these Bills together. The first Bill, the Dairying Industry Levy Bill, is the main Bill and the other 5 are subsidiary machinery measures which put teeth into the first Bill. I do not propose to say very much at this stage because the dairy industry equalisation scheme has been in operation for many years. The scheme was introduced in 1.934 and has had considerable success in its operation. We are reaching the point where, with a large amount of butter and cheese produced in Australia, there is a considerable imbalance between the home market, and the export market. This means that the scheme, which has always been a voluntary one up to the present, does provide some of the producers with an opportunity to get out of their voluntary connection with it. Because of th s I think the Government has been wise in introducing the Dairying Industry Levy Bill. All producers, without exception, will have to pay the levy, which will be distributed so that the industry W il remain on a firm basis. This, of course, does not get over the difficulty of finding markets. The Opposition supports this Bill. 
I think we ought to look quickly at what the other Bills do so that we do not just accept them as being merely machinery measures. The Dairying Industry Levy Bill, as I have said, imposes a levy. The Da:rying Industry Levy Collection Bill gives the power for the collection of this levy, lt is necessary to set up a trust account to receive the moneys and also to disburse the moneys. This function is covered by the Dairying Industry Equalisation Bil. lt is proposed that a referendum should be held among producers to determine their attitude to the imposition of the levy and to the continuation of the equalisation scheme. The power to hold this referendum, as and when determined by the Minister, is contained in the Dairying Industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum Bill. 
Then of course the Dairying Industry Act, which is the principal Act which controls the dairying industry, requires amendment. This amendment, to cover the payment of a stabilisation bounty on all butter and cheese, which is produced in Australia, is pro, ded for in the Dairying Industry Bill. The Processed Milk Products 
Bounty Bill, which is the last of the 6 Bills thai we are considering in this multiple discussion, is purely a machinery one. I think there are about 3 or 4 words only in the principal Act which have to be amended to bring this legislation into line with the proposals of the Dairying Industry Levy Bill. 
The Opposition is not opposing this series of 6 Bills. We believe that the legislation which was introduced by a Labor government in 1934 has proved itself over the years. The arrangement is very satisfactory to the producers, and the Labor Party wants to see it continued. Anything that gives the stability that is provided for in these Bills is only to be commended. Therefore, the Opposition has much pleasure in supporting the Bills. 
1 want to take only a few moments on this Bill in order, first, to straighten out some misconceptions about the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition, and secondly, to deal with one or two other matters in passing. I think we should remember that this Bill is limited in what it can do for the wheat industry. It is not a Bill to rehabilitate, reconstruct or re-organise the industry. It deals only with the wheat stabilisation scheme. Therefore it is limited in what it can do in approaching the problems that are facing the wheat industry. What the Opposition is endeavouring to do in putting forward this amendment is to re-allocate the money which is available for the industry. We have contended since the inception of the wheat stabilisation scheme that a one-price scheme is the ideal and that this is something which should be continued. lt was with this in mind that last year 1 moved an amendment which is rather similar to the one that we have now moved. I moved that amendment so that the amount of money which was available for the stabilisation scheme could be distributed over the whole of the wheat which was available up to the amount of 260 million bushels, 200 million bushels being for overseas markets and 60 million bushels for the home market. This is why Si. 48 is taken as the equalised price, lt is the guaranteed return to the grower. This is the important difference. 
We cannot take into account all the other facets of the industry and try to rectify them at the same time. When J was speaking to the legislation 12 months ago I expressed the opinion that with the 2- price scheme we would have an increase in the price of bread. Immediately there were cries from the Government that this would not happen because the real increase in the cost of a loaf of bread would be about .02c. I contended that the increase would be of the order of lc a loaf but would probably be 2c because one cannot split up a cent for half a loaf of bread. This is actually what happened. Within I month of the legislation being passed the price of bread was increased by 2c. Because of the higher home consumption price there is an opportunity for blackmarketing of wheat across the State borders. It is well known that this has been going on this year. 
There is another very serious matter about which we can do nothing under this Bill because it is outside its scope, and which was mentioned by  Senator Little  and  Senator Cant.  It is that we ought to be able to provide wheat for stock at reasonable prices - not at the home consumption price and probably not even at the export price. It was the idea of the Labor Party that we should have a No. 2 pool for excess wheat above the 260 million bushels and that this should be available for stock, for national emergencies and for disasters anywhere in the world. We could try to get what we could for it but at least we would be helping industries and people where there was a need. I think that this was a very important idea and it probably could have been written into the Bill, although there may be some doubt about that. 
The final thing I want to point out is that I was very concerned about the inarches that were held by farmers in both Victoria and Western Australia. I took part in the Western Australian march. I received petitions from the farmers, and presented them in the Senate. This was the association that I as a member of the Opposition had with the problems and difficulties of the farmers in my own State.  Senator Cant  also had a number of petitions handed to him, and they were presented in the other place and also in the Western Australian Parliament. The Labor Party has shown a consistent concern for the wheat industry and we have endeavoured at all times to try to keep it on an even keel. This is demonstrated by the fact that it was we who introduced the wheat stabilisation scheme, which was recognised to be of considerable value by this Government and which has been continued up to the present time. It is only in the last two years, with the 2-price scheme, that a lot of difficulties have been disturbing the industry. 
I have given those few facts because I believe that the amendment we have put forward is a perfectly reasonable one. The experience of the past 12 months has shown that the proposal in our previous amendment was the correct thing to do at the time the wheat stabilisation scheme was before the House last year. I hope that en this occasion we will have the support of honourable senators on both sides of the Senate and from the corner parties to enable the amendment moved by  Senator Cant  to be carried so that we can have a 1 price scheme again. Such a scheme will be to the benefit of the people of Australia and will not be detrimental to the v/heat growers of Australia. 
As a senator from Western Australia, 1 wish to take about 2 minutes to express my appreciation of the fact that the Government is recognising the need of the war service land settlement scheme in Western Australia. In the south west, particularly in the Frankland River area, the soldier settlers are having a very difficult time. I believe that this Bill, when it becomes law, will be of considerable assistance to the settlers in that area. However, I do think that more inquiry should take place in relation to the war service land settlement situation in Australia. Therefore, I think that we would be wise to set up a Senate committee as is proposed in the amendment moved by  Senator Keeffe.  So, while congratulating the Government on the move that it is making to help war service land settlement, I propose to support the amendment. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will the Government give consideration to making pension increases payable retrospectively to the date of the bringing down of the Budget? 
This is not a new proposal. In the many years I have been here it has been canvassed as a matter of policy. Down through the years succeeding governments have never responded to the proposal. In the nature of things I do not believe that it is likely to be responded to now. Normally a time is fixed for the application of any variations in pension rates and the Government tries to gear its parliamentary programme to ensure 'hat the legislation is passed before that date. The honourable senator suggests that having passed the legislation we should make it retrospective to a certain time. That is a matter of government policy. It has certainly never been the practice to do this. I believe it has been considered not an appropriate thing to do. 
It was certainly refreshing to hear from  Senator Lillico  that he was not entirely satisfied with Government policy. 
The honourable senator inferred from what he said that more ought to be done, and I would say that if more needs to be done a person is not satisfied with the situation he finds. As I say, this is refreshing. I think this is very important. I want to make only a few remarks in this debate. I draw to the attention of the Senate in the first place the fact that we are not debating Australian Labor Party policy. We are debating an urgency proposal which, in the terms put forward by  Senator O'Byrne,  states: 
The urgent need for the reconstruction of the rural economy including a constructive national drought policy. 
That means it is directed at the Government. It is important to realise that the Government is taking palliative steps to remedy situations as it finds them from moment to moment. There is not a long term policy.  Senator Sim  criticised the Opposition and said that we had not anybody who has ever been a farmer or who has had experience as a farmer. Perhaps it would be legitimate for me to put on the line, although  Senator Sim  is not here, that during the depression years from 1930-38 I was  a  dairy farmer with  no  other source of income. At that time 1 was receiving 6id per lb for butterfat and about 6d a lb for wool from the sheep I was running. I know what the situation is like as a farmer. From that time until now I have without interruption owned a farm. So do not let it be said that no one on this side of the chamber knows anything about farming. 
It is important to recall that about 5 years ago the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made the statement that primary industry was in for a very serious period and that we ought to take cognisance of that fact. He said this not only in Parliament but also throughout the country, and he repeated it only recently in Western Australia. About 10 years ago the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  pointed out that we could not continue to pay subsidies on butter because this was an uneconomic way of running an industry. That was 10 years ago, yet the Government continues to produce short term policies to deal with something which is a long term necessity. It is a long term policy that we need. This can be achieved only if we do some planning and if we do some proper thinking on a long term basis in order to meet the situation that we find. 
My next remarks I put forward not as a solution but as an illustration of what I mean. A fortnight ago I was in Sweden. I spent a fortnight of the time 1 was there in looking into the co-operative movement and in looking into the port of Gothenburg which, with its roll on and roll off facilities, is one of the best container ports in the world. 1 looked also at primary industry and 1 was extremely interested in some of the things 1 found which were in line with our problems in this country. I think we should appreciate that their problems are within the European community. They have the opportunity to sell their produce inside the European community, an opportunity which we would not have. Even so, some years ago they appreciated that there was nothing in primary industry for the farmer and realised that they had to look very seriously at the situation. Having done so they have been courageous enough to start phasing out primary industry. That docs not mean that they have wiped out primary industry; they have started phasing it out. Dairying is at an extremely low level. Sheep and wool are at an extremely low level. They produce wheat, oats and barley. I saw that growing, but they do not produce a very great amount. Yet until recently theirs was an agricultural community. 
In place of agriculture they are now engaged in regional development and starting industries in the country. 1 ask honourable senators to consider the sorts of things that they are doing. We are installing cross bar telephone equipment in all our exchanges throughout Australia and where are we getting it from? Ericcson's in Sweden. They are looking outside their own country to see what products of secondary industry the world is prepared to take. One of their biggest industries is the SKF ball bearing industry. Another large industry which has been going on ever since 1 was in the engineering business when I started out some 35 years ago is producing ASEA motors and generating equipment. This is one of the big industries in Europe and it is the sort of industry that they are developing in Sweden. They are taking the problem of primary industry, looking at it realistically and courageously, and curing it, or going a long way towards it. 
One of the problems they face is the farmer who wants to remain on his land. We have a similar problem in Australia. They are not going to push the farmer off his land, and in Australia I do not think we should do so either. We should look at the idea of regional development and. in doing so, I think we can learn a lot from countries like Sweden. That is an affluent country. They have high wages.  Senator Lillico  told us that one of the problems that we have in Australia is that wages and costs are spiralling and he said that we must try to curtail this spiral. But this is not the point. The point is that wages in Sweden are going up. They are enjoying high wages and they are not complaining. It is an affluent country and they are doing all right. 1 believe that this is the son of thing that we can consider for Australia. But this is not being done by the Government, lt is looking only at short term palliatives in order to meet the situation which arises from time to time. There is no doubt in my mind that we have to be carefully analysing the situation wherever we can. There is some merit in the motion proposed by the Democratic Labor Party, but there are other things at which we should be looking. We do not agree that a Royal Commission is a proper way to meet the situation. I believe that this matter which has been raised as a matter of urgency is important and that it is a matter on which we should have a decision. Therefore I move: 
That the question now be put. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. According to Professor Titterton, the proposed nuclear power station to be erected at Jervis Bay is expected to be less dangerous than the usual turbo-operated generating station. Can the Minister say whether this expectation extends to the elimination of the radioactive waste which, up to this time, has been an insurmountable obstacle? If the Minister is not in possession of this information, will he obtain it? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the ministerial statement which he made on Tuesday this week and which he said might answer my question on the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. The statement was with reference to radioactive fallout. My question related to radioactive waste, which is a rather different matter. I ask: Will radioactive waste be produced by this plant, as is generally the case? By 'radioactive waste' I mean the usual production of plutonium, which is radioactive, from uranium, and the possible radioactive pollution of cooling sea water. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI gave to  Senator Mulvihill  a fairly comprehensive answer on this matter. My reply dealt not only with flora and fauna but also in some part with radioactive waste. The answer which I gave previously to  Senator Wilkinson  obviously did not cover the points he had in mind. This morning  Senator Keeffe  asked a question which is obviously related to the answers I gave previously. In the circumstances I think I had better tidy up the whole question by giving a consolidated answer which will cover any points that it is felt have been missed. That consolidated answer should include details that  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator Keeffe,  in respect of his question about the Atherton Tableland, may feel should have been supplied previously. In that way we should get a comprehensive coverage which will be acceptable to everybody. 
 Mr Deputy President,  this Bill is the culmination of some years of discussion which has been going on between the United Kingdom , Government and the Australian Government. It arises from the fact - a geophysical fact, actually - that . the best place for viewing all sections of the sky is in the Southern Hemisphere, not too near the Equator and not too near the Antartic Circle. The position in New South Wales which has been chosen as the site for this telescope is admirably suited for a number of reasons. Cloud cover and air pollution are minimal. The site is quite outstanding for a number of reasons. 
The construction of this telescope will give Australia a further impetus to carry on work in the scientific and astronomical world. Australia already has achieved outstanding results not only with optical telescope work but also in radio astronomy. I think it is well known that even with our smaller optical telescopes we have been able to achieve some outstanding results in the search of the heavens. We are well in the forefront of research work which has been carried on with radio telescopes. So it is with considerable pleasure that I have to announce that the Opposition believes we have reached the stage when the agreement for the construction and operation of this telescope can be ratified in this Bill. It will be to the benefit not only to Australian scientific circles but also to research which is being carried on in astronomical circles throughout the world. 
It is intended to build a 150 inch telescope. It will be quite a large telescope - comparable with the 200 inch telescope at Mount Palomar, which is the largest in the world. It will have a resolution factor which will enable it to be used to considerable advantage for research into the Milky Way and matters pertaining thereto. The Bill also empowers the setting up of a board which will be sited in Canberra. It will control and be responsible for the operation and maintenance of this telescope. I believe that the original intention was that 3 members of the board would be appointed by the Commonwealth Government and that 3 members would be appointed by the United Kingdom Government. Those members will have full responsibility for carrying on at this stage the operation, maintenance and general conduct of the telescope. The Opposition believes that the setting up of the telescope will be a very good example of cooperative arrangement between the United Kingdom Government and the Commonwealth Government. We have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. We will give it a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the eye disease trachoma been removed from the list of notifiable diseases? If so, why? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, follows one that  Senator Buttfield  asked 2 days ago. A brochure has now been distributed by the Postmaster-General, advising that mail posted prior to 6.10 a.m. at the Parliament House Post Office as priority paid mail will be delivered into private boxes in Perth by. 2.15 p.m. the same day. I posted a letter priority paid at 9.30 p.m. on 25th August and it was not delivered in Perth until 9 a.m. on 27th August, which is 19 hours late. 
Yes. Will the Postmaster-General ensure that priority paid mail, which carries a heavy surcharge, is delivered as stated in Perth? 
asked the Minis ter representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In view of the brochure circulated by the Postmaster-General advising that mail posted prior to 6.10 a.m. in the Parliament House Post Office as priority mail will be delivered into private boxes in Perth at 2.15 p.m. the same day, and in view of the fact that I posted a letter 'Priority Paid' at 9.30 p.m. on 25th August and it was not delivered in Perth until 9 a.m. on 27th August - 19 hours late, will the Postmaster-General ensure that 'Priority Paid' mail, which carries a heavy surcharge, is delivered in Perth within the time limits stated. 
With reference to the Question on Notice by  Senator L.  D. Wilkinson, Senate Paper No. 47, of the 3rd September, 1970, Question No. 614, I regret that the Priority Paid letter posted by the honourable senator at 9.30 p.m. on the 25th August at the Parliament House Post Office was not delivered into Private Box B58 at the General Post Office, Perth, by the advertised time of 2.15 p.m. on 26th August. A safeguarding feature of the Priority Paid Mail Service is that mails are despatched only on specified airline flights so that receipts are expected at set times. The early morning despatch from Canberra is due at Perth airport at 12.20 p.m., but in this instance, the mail was transferred by the conveying airline to a later flight, which did not. arrive until during the afternoon, and consequently the mail missed a transport connection to the Perth Mail Exchange. The honourable senator's letter was placed in the private box in the evening of 26th August. 
Despite the honourable senator's experience on this occasion, the Priority Paid Mail Service is operating at a standard of reliability which is better than the major competing services that the Post Office has tested. In the case of Perth, some 7,000 articles have been received since the inception of the service and no more than 5 of these have been subjected to delays. The only feature causing concern is the standard of conveyance of Priority Paid despatches by the airlines and, for this reason, representatives of the two major airlines and the Post Office are currently examining this matter. 
 I listened with considerable interest to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in his attack on the amendment that was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I would have liked to have spent a considerable amount of time in referring one by one to the points he raised; but I want to make my own contribution to the Budget debate, so I will refer to only a couple of them. I believe that they should be taken up right now, when we have just heard his speech. 
He was emphatic that the Leader of the Opposition, in his speech, made no constructive proposals with regard to the. way in which the Budget should be amended. But that is not the function of the Leader of the Opposition or the Opposition itself when dealing with a . Budget brought forward by the Government. The Opposition, in its discussion of the Budget proposals, shows where it believes the Government is falling short of meeting the needs of the community. By implication this means that the Opposition, were it the Government, would take effective measures to meet those points on which it offers criticism. 1 believe that this is perfectly reasonable. 
Let me look at the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition and take just some of the points  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson raised. First of all.  Senator Murphy  criticised the Budget because it will 'seek to impose unjust taxes on the people'. That is a very positive statement. This is a situation which, 1 assume, we ourselves, if we were the Government, would endeavour to ameliorate. This would be our policy. This is a positive approach. A little later  Senator Murphy  referred to pensioners and said: 
They are entitled to justice, but get none; they are entitled to security, but get none. 
It is reasonable to assume from that statement that  Senator Murphy  was saying that, were we the Government, we would see that the pensioners- received more justice and more security. This would be bur policy. 
Yes, we did. A little later  Senator Murphy  referred to child endowment, which was last increased in 1967.  Senator Murphy  pointed that out. The. implication in that is that, were we the Government, we would see that an alteration was made to child endowment. He also referred to interest rates. There is no indication in the Budget that we can look forward to any variation in interest rates, which are at an all time high at the present time.  Senator Murphy  mentioned that he had asked the Government questions on this subject, to which the Leader of the Government in this place had given no answer. The point of the questions was that interest rates of which people had never dreamt when they entered into contracts to build houses and so on are now their responsibility. 

 Senator Murphy also, mentioned the taxation scales. This is a matter that we have mentioned from time to time over many years now. The taxation scales are still the same as they were when we were the Government. There has been only a slight variation of the rates. There has been no material lifting of the point at which taxation becomes payable. I believe that a person on the basic wage should be free of income tax. At one stage this was practically the position. If we think back to the time when the Labor Party was in office as the Government in 1949 we recall that a man on the basic wage was paying taxation on only about 50 of his income and with deductions his tax payment almost disappeared. Another point I wish to raise in relation to taxation concerns education.  Senator Murphy  said: _ No attempt is made in the Budget to provide the finance necessary to give our children the opportunity for education to which they are entitled as a basic human right. Our children will continue to have fewer educational opportunities than those of other industrialised countries. In/the United States and Japan a significantly higher percentage of children enter and complete secondary school courses, more receive a university education and more undergo technical training than in Australia. 
 Does not this mean that if the Labor Party was in office as the Government it would see that this situation was reversed? Of course it does. This is a positive proposal. The Minister made great play of the fact that some 4,950,000 taxpayers will receive reductions in personal income tax. This taxation relief is very commendable. The taxpayers of Australia as a whole will receive relief of $228m. Assuming that everybody pays the same amount of tax - which of course is quite wrong as  Senator Georges  indicated by interjection when the Minister was speaking - on a pro rata basis  the relief they would receive would be $57 each per annum which is just over $1 a week. But this relief is applied right across the board and there are many taxpayers who pay small amounts of tax. They are not financially involved in paying more tax but this is a breadline problem as far as they are concerned. They will receive only a very small return under this taxation relief provision. 
Statistical figures are trotted out at every opportunity to point out how well the Government is dealing with the situation but when one looks at the amount of taxation relief of $228m, this amount goes right across the board and is given to people on the basic wage and to all those other people who are within the bracket in which this relief is to be given. My argument also applies to the average weekly wage of $77.80. This amount of $77.80 is calculated right across the board. It is based on wages received by accountants and business managers as well as persons on the basic wage. It does not include professional workers but it includes practically everybody else. It includes persons who are in receipt of yearly incomes of $15,000, $17,500 and $20,000. This $77.80 is an average. Therefore when one attempts to  work out how much particular people will receive by way of taxation relief the figure obtained is only a fictitious one. I would like to have dealt with other matters referred to by the Minister in bis speech on the Budget but 1 have not sufficient time. 
I want to come back to subjects in the Budget about which I am interested. Yesterday afternoon we saw the spectacle of the Government having no speakers to carry  on with  the debate.  Senator Georges  followed  Senator Wriedt  because there was no Government senator on the President's list to carry on with the debate. That was a shocking situation. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber assumed that the Government did not intend to do anything more about it. Those of us who had our name on the list said that we would not be prepared to move on until the Government showed that it was willing to continue with the debate.  Senator Milliner  continued the debate, followed by  Senator Cotton.  At that point we on this side were still not sure what the Government was going to do and then there were 2 more speakers from the Government side which practically evened up the numbers of speakers on both sides. That is why I then put my name back on the list, as did  Senator Bishop.  I was very concerned at the interjections made by  Senator Marriott  and also the speech given to us by  Senator Withers  when they said that members of the Opposition had made no contribution in this debate in regard to primary industry and that the only mention of primary industry was. a statement made by  Senator Murphy  when moving his amendment. I went to the trouble of having a look at the Hansard record of the speeches made in this debate so far. 
I think that honourable senators will find these facts very interesting. The first  speaker  on our side was  Senator Willesee.  He did not make any reference to primary production at all. He did make a very good speech about a lot of other matters which were of extreme importance but there was no reference to primary industry.  Senator Devitt  then followed from our side and he did refer to primary industry in Tasmania.  Senator Cavanagh,  who is not an exponent of the problems of primary industry, followed  Senator Devitt.  If one looks at page 346 of the Senate Hansard one will find that  Senator Cavanagh  dealt with primary industry quite considerably.  Senator Mulvihill  then followed and at page 360 he also spoke about primary industry. He was followed by  Senator Donald  Cameron who spoke on primary industry at page 366. We then had  Senator Toohey  who gave his last speech in this House on a Budget. He made the sort of speech in which we would hardly have expected him to include an attack on the Government with regard to primary industry, and he did not mention the subject.  Senator Keeffe  followed him and if one looks at page 416 it will be found that  Senator Keeffe  spoke on primary industry.  Senator McClelland  at page 424 also spoke on primary industry. 

 Senator Drury, who had proposed to speak about the wine industry in South Australia, had been preceded by  Senator Cavanagh  who dealt with the wine industry fairly considerably, made only a fairly short reference to the wine industry, but he did mention it at page 439.  Senator Wriedt  followed and he did not speak on primary industry.  Senator Georges  who followed  Senator Wriedt  did refer to primary industry and this appears at page 550. Out of 12 speakers there were 9 who included the subject of primary industry in their addresses. Up to that point of time there had been 11 speakers from the Government side, 9 of whom spoke on primary industry. This is quite understandable because Senators Lawrie, Young, Maunsell, Webster and Lillico would obviously be speaking on primary industry. I think our batting average on the opposition side on the subject of primary industry was very good up to that point. I do not think I need go any further than that because at that point attention had been drawn to the situation and if everybody had spoken on primary industry after that point of time I could not, of course, use that as an argument. 
Let me come to the Budget itself. I was very concerned when I first read this Budget. I am very pleased to have the opportunity - and I will have the opportunity later by voting on this amendment - of supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I think that this is extremely important at this stage when we have a Budget which seems to me to be nothing more or less than a continuation of the budgets that we have from year to year. There is no variation in the type of budget. All that is being done is taking away a little bit here, making things a little bit easier at one point and adding something somewhere else. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had begun to deal with the provisions of the Budget, after analysing the criticisms made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I said that in my opinion this is another Budget of the type we have year after year, lt contains nothing very new or dramatic. In support of my contention I had begun to analyse the Budget and to put it into a simple form in order to ascertain what is being done by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  this year. It was anticipated that provided the same rates of taxation were maintained, receipts would increase by $840m to make available to the Government a total of $7,922m. 
With the reductions in income tax that are to become effective, receipts from taxation are to fall by $228m, reducing the amount available to the Government to $7,694m. However, the Treasurer estimated that he would require $7,883m in order to meet his commitments. It is therefore necessary to make up the difference. A study of the method adopted to make up the difference discloses some important features. Receipts from customs duty and excise on tobacco, wine and petrol, plus sales tax will account for Si 18m. In the main those charges fall directly on individuals in the community. Public and private company taxation will account for an increase of $79m, while the miscellaneous charges referred to by  Senator Cotton,  such as light dues and air navigation charges, will account for $ 1.75m. Those items total $ 198.75m. On my figures an amount of $7,892m will be available to the Government. As the Treasurer had calculated the figure as $7,887m the difference is only $5m. As I have made my calculations in round figures the difference may well be due to minor variation inincome tax and possibly age allowances. 
How will the increased revenue of about $800m be spent? Defence will take $34m and social welfare $157m.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson quite correctly said that the increases in social service payments cover more than just the base rate pension and are spread around the community. That is (rue enough. This will account for $60.3m instead of $22m, which is all that is required for the increase in the base rate pension. The point I am concerned with at this stage is the increase in the base rate pension. Education will take an extra $63m. Externa! aid, both multilateral and bilateral, and aid to Papua and New Guinea will account for $2 1.2m. Assistance to industry - rural, manufactures, mining and transport - will take $80. 6m. An additional $7 8m is required for capital purposes, for Qantas Airways Ltd, TransAustralia Airlines, and so on. The Post Office will account for S7m and other capital works and services will require $54m. Payments to the States are to be increased by $286m. The items I have named account in total for about $800m. 
I have rapidly analysed the Budget to show that it contains the same sorts of provisions that appear in Budgets from year to year. It does not contain any progressive ideas or any methods by which to improve the economy. The Budget is not a policy making exercise but it does reflect the Government's policy. I was hopeful of finding a provision which would indicate that the Government, was taking considerable ' note of the problems facing primary producers. 
I come now to the burden of my speech. I. believe that we are continuously moving through a period of change, yet. we try to meet change through the same policies that have been used for a considerable time. At one time the horse and buggy was used to travel around Australia. When more sophisticated methods  of  transport were produced people were not put out of. work. We changed over and eventually we produced other methods of communication. That philosophy can be applied to all sorts of progress. But let us look at what has happened in primary industry. At the end of World War IT the Labor Government in office introduced expansion in primary industry and offered encouragement to primary producers with the object of building up overseas credits. This policy was highly successful. 
Growing wheat for export, is a very quick way of obtaining overseas credits when you are short of them. The policy was so successful that it has been continued over the years, in spite of the fact that the situation was obviously changing. For the last 5 years the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has been pointing out to primary producer organisations  that we  would be in for a bad time. But the Government has done very little about it, other than point out that we would be in difficulties. More action than that was necessary. The situation should have been analysed to see what could be done to improve the position of our farmers. Over the last 5 years or so primary products have been our biggest exports and still are. Exports of primary products have increased each year, with the exception of 1967-68. I have a copy of 'Overseas Trading' of 4th September in which are set out details of exports from 1965-66 to 1969.-70. In 1965-66 farm products accounted for 69 per cent of our exports. Manufactures accounted for only 15 per cent. Farm products valued at Si, 829m were exported, while the value of manufactures was only $384m. 
Exports of both farm products and manufactures have been increasing, but exports of manufactures have been increasing at a much faster rate. Exports of mining products are also growing very rapidly. For 1969-70 farm products are estimated to represent 53 per cent of our total exports, whereas manufactures are expected to rise to 18 per cent. Mining products have risen from 11 per cent in 1965-66 to an estimated 24 per cent for the present year, lt seems to me that we have to look very seriously at the situation. If the Opposition were' in government it would be prepared to look at the situation very much more seriously than the Government is, The Government is dealing with the problems as they arise from crisis to crisis and in a way which is giving some assistance but is not doing sufficient to plan for the removal of the causes. 
The front page of the 'West Australian' of last Friday, l1th September, reported, under the following heading, the tragedy which confronts that State: '3,000 WA farmers may be forced off the land'. The article in question took up the whole page and continued on an inside page. It. showed that the situation is very serious. Anybody who has been in the farming areas of Western Australia knows that this is true. Today's 'West Australian' contains an article about a meeting at Esperance of over 100 farmers who are in difficulties and who claimed that in their area farmers are unable to raise finance to buy food. The article also stated that children were being forced to leave schools and colleges. The meeting carried requests, in the form of a resolution, for immediate aid. What has the Government done to solve the problem? The Government has given assistance' through the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill. Only a week ago the Minister for Primary Industry stated that the Government proposes to assist with rural debt adjustments. This is locking the stable door after the horse has bolted. 
It would be much better to look at the situation to see what can be done. Two things can be done. One is a short term solution, the other is a long term solution. On a number of occasions here I have mentioned the short term solution of negative income tax or reverse income tax, as it is called sometimes. This is one way in which the farmers who are in difficulties could be assisted immediately. In the United States of America for some considerable time  Dr Friedman,  to whom I have referred previously, has been advocating reverse income tax. This is one of his pet subjects. It is interesting to note that in America this year a form of reverse income tax has been introduced. 'Newsweek' of 18th May of this year contains an article written by Milton Friedman who claims that there is a difficulty in the implementation of this type of negative income tax or reverse income tax. There are many .types of such taxes. He said that the one that is being introduced there is not a good type. I believe that we have to look at reverse income tax and analyse it carefully in the light of what important and knowledgeable world economists have to say on this matter. We. have to find some way of assisting our producers at this moment. They are in serious difficulties. 
The long term solution is quite a different matter. We have to look at the needs of the world for the coming years. I have an extract from a Press release issued by the Second World Food Congress held in Rome in May of this year by the Food and Agriculture Organisation. It points out that the world will be short of proteins in the next 5 years, to the extent that there will be under-nourishment in all parts of the globe. It suggests that we should be starting to produce proteins. As my time is practically completed I will leave the Senate with this point: We have to produce proteins. Research should be carried out into methods that we might adopt to introduce protein production into our farming areas so that we can bridge part of the tremendous gap between production and consumption in the coming years. This would be one way in which we could help to solve the difficulties of our farming community. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the eye disease trachoma been removed from the list of notifiable diseases; if so, why. 
The listing of a disease as 'notifiable' is the responsibility of the relevant State or Territory health authority. Cases of trachoma are at present required to be notified in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, and m Victoria and South Australia. 
In 1965, the National Health and Medical Research Council recommended that a basic list of certain diseases should be uniformly adopted throughout Australia as notifiable. The disease trachoma was not included in the recommended list. 
As has been stated by  Senator Webster,  we are debating 2 Bills together although we will be voting on them separately. These Bills seek to increase charges for postal and telephone services and to amend the regulations, where necessary, to permit that to be done. We are dealing this evening with one of the largest, if not the largest, business undertakings in Australia. Many people looking at the amount being allocated to the Post Office in the Budget would get the impression that we were dealing with an amount of $240m for this year. That is wrong. The Post Office functions under its own trust account on the income that it receives from the services that it provides, and it uses that income legitimately in the provision of those services. According to the records. Post Office earnings in 1969-70 amounted to $162m and the telecommunications services earned $464m, a total of $626m. If we add to that the amount which was given to the Post Office by the Government to meet the cost of capital works and so on- some $233m - we find that the Post Office handled $859m last year. This year it is estimated that the amount will be $963m made up of $240m which is being allocated by the Budget, S I 89m representing Post office income and 534m from the provision of telecommunications services. We are dealing with big business. 

 Senator Webster in supporting the Minister's second reading speech has suggested that because this service is being given and the costs are so great, charges have to be increased in order to meet those costs. My contention is that in our approach to the problem we are assuming that the costs with which we are faced are legitimate charges on the Post Office. Over a number of years now I have said that I object to the way in which all the activity of the Post Office is classed as postal activity. The Post Office is involved in minor matters such as banking and handling age pensions and social service payments which are not really the concern of the Post Office. These are matters of executive work carried out for the Government for which the Post Office receives no payment; yet, acting as the agent of the Government, it provides this service for the public. The services of the Post Office are used in many other and much more diverse ways for the benefit of other departments. Honourable senators will recall that on a previous occasion I mentioned the coaxial cable which has been laid to Carnarvon at considerable cost. The number of telephone services provided on this coaxial cable would enable most of the people in Carnarvon to talk at the same time to people in Perth. This of course is quite ridiculous and is not the reason why the coaxial cable was introduced to Carnarvon. Carnarvon happens to be on the route to the Exmouth Gulf communications centre which needs these extra communication channels. Carnarvon also demands a television service. 
Again this is a service which is not essential but we use the coaxial cable to give this service to the people there. It seems to me that portion of this cost should be borne by the departments concerned. I know the Exmouth Gulf communications centre does pay rent for the lines it uses but is it paying sufficient of the capital cost to meet the service which is being rendered? The same principle applies when one looks at the television channel which is being provided to Carnarvon. Up to a point it is a legitimate Post Office expense. But what about the educational programmes which are telecast over this channel for schools in the area? fs this not a charge on the Department of Education and Science? Why should this service be paid for by the Post Office? I shall go a little further on this matter of broadcasting. The Post Office provides an overseas service through Radio Australia on all short wave stations in Australia. With very few exceptions the people in Australia do nol listen to these broadcasts which are for the purpose of disseminating propaganda and giving information to people overseas. Should not this cost be borne by the Department of External Affairs or a department which gives information about Australia to the world? 
I ask honourable senators to consider one of the points raised by  Senator Webster.  I refer to the provision of telephone services at no cost to people who are within a 15-mile radius of an exchange. I. am very pleased to see this provision which will help a considerable number of farmers. Why should this necessarily be a cost to the Post Office? Why should the Post Office pay for it? If we want to run a railway service to pick up farm produce and provide farmers with superphosphate for their farms to what do we charge the capital cost of the railway? We charge h to the Government. 
In Australia the railways charge that cost to the Government: The losses are paid for by the Government. 1 do not know of any private company with the exception of the Mount Newman mine company which pays its own costs. The railways are run by Government concerns and these losses are paid for by the Government. 
This is a service which is given by the Government to the farmers. Why should the Post Office pay for the service? Ft means that the people generally, the subscribers generally, are going to pay. If the Government wants the farmers to have this service the Government should pay for it and not the Post Office. Reference was made by  Senator Webster  to the more than one hundred million newspapers and publications which are sent out at a loss of S9m a year. The honourable senator could have gone further and pointed out that the Post Office loses quite a lot of money on inland telegrams but not on overseas telegrams - - there is money in those. This is a service which we demand should be given by the Post Office, If we are demanding this service the Post Office is not offering it. It is being told to provide the service. We should be paying something for it. 
This attitude was adopted by the commissioners in England when they set up a Post Office commission. They pointed out that in their case they had very carefully studied the cost of telegrams and had found that as soon as someone wrote a telegram and passed it across the counter the Post Office lost 5s. They said that they did not propose to continue this situation because the Post Office could not charge people who wanted to send a telegram the amount that it cost to transmit that telegram. If the Government wanted this service for the public it had to subsidise it. This attitude was agreed to. The same situation obtains when one looks at the sending of publications and newspapers. If the cost to send the paper which  Senator Webster  is interested in is increased - perhaps this is one reason why we might be grateful for the increase in charges - he might have to close it down. I do not know, but I understand it will cost 1.7c for a copy to be distributed. Because of this, some of these publishers have said that they will need lo have their publications printed overseas. The Australian Labor Party has been complaining about books being printed in Hong Kong. In New Zealand publications can be published - some already are being published - and sent lo Australia for 3c. not 17c. But what happens when they get here? Our organisation distributes them. The Post Office receives them, but it is not being paid more for the service. 
These publications are going to flood in from overseas and the Post Office is still going  to  distribute them. They will still go to everybody in exactly the same way. The Post Office is still going to foot the bill. What are we going to do? Are we to increase the rate on first, class .postage and on telephones? Are we to make the Post Office the sort of unit we want? The suggestion that there should be an inquiry into the establishment of a corporation has been considered for many years by organisations connected with the Post Office because they are concerned that the Post Office should be a well run, efficient and businesslike enterprise. In present circumstances the officers of the Postal Department find themselves continually up against the difficulties of being under ministerial control. They are told: 'You ought to be doing something in one line and not something in another'. This is said with the best will in the world. I am not complaining that this does happen under the present set up. 
I think honourable senators know because of what 1 have said on a previous occasion that 1 was once engaged in Post Office planning. We would be planning telecommunications development for Australia as a whole, both rural and metropolitan. Then, with plans that we could see ahead of us. we would be instructed - this would be a ministerial instruction - that it was important that we should do more for country areas because there had been many complaints that the country areas were not receiving the attention they should receive. That is fairly reasonable. 
But. of course, in the Post Office we were limited as to funds. So the emphasis was then pushed over on to the rural sector. That meant that we had to order equipment that would be suitable for rural development work. Then, before that equipment arrived - it takes about 18 months to arrive - we found that the city people, including the business houses, were complaining (hat they did not have enough lines or enough exchanges in the city. So an endeavour was made to put the  emphasis in  the Post Office on to providing that sort of facility before it had the material to do the country work. So the people in the Post Office were frustrated; they did not know where they were half the time. 
The organisations connected with the Post Office - both the white collar organisations and trade unions - have looked at this matter very deeply. They feel that some sort of a corporation similar to that which is now functioning in England should be set up in Australia. Such a corporation would provide the Post Office with the opportunities to function as a businesslike concern. I hoped that we were going to do that when we introduced the trust account. I thought that would give the Post Office the opportunity to float its own loans; but that was not the intention, as honourable senators know. 
The Post Office in Britain has floated its own loans. What we did here in Australia was only to remove the Post Office account No. 1 and the Post Office account No. 2, which were quite separate accounts, and to combine them in one trust account so that the money did not go from the Treasury into the Post Office to enable it to carry out its day to day functions and all the receipts of the Post. Office did not go into Consolidated Revenue through account No. 1. What we did was to introduce a trust account which just means that the receipts stay with the Post Office. We did not give the Post Office the opportunity to float its own loans and to develop in the way it should. That is the important difference. 
lt would mean that the Post Office would not have to call on the Government for S240m this year. If it could float its own loans, this $240m would be available for other work that the Government considers ought to be done. That is the important difference. The Post Office would bc able to obtain the money. All around Australia we have electricity commissions which are doing exactly that. They arc going through the public sector and obtaining funds for the development that they want to carry out in their areas. They are run very successfully. If honourable senators like to look at any of them, they will see that there is no doubt about tha;. That is what should be done. There should be an inquiry to see who this system can be introduced in Australia. 
1 did not catch all of that interjection; but, if it refers to the question of interest. I point out that nobody is objecting to the Post Office paying interest. 
On loans from the government? 
That is right. I do not agree with it either; but if the Post Office has to pay interest on such loans J contend that it should be able to float its own loans at the interest rate in operation in the public market. When we are talking about interest, let us remember another factor which is always lost sight of, namely, the matter of superannuation. Very few people seem to realise that the Post Office is paying for the majority of the superannuation payments that are made every year. The people who are on superannuation from the Post Office always feel that the Government is providing 67 per cent of the superannuation payments that they receive each fortnight. That is absolutely wrong. The amount is paid by the Post Office. 
If honourable senators look up the annual report of the Australian Post Office for 1968-69 - it is the latest one available - they will find that the amount charged to the postal service for superannuation was $20,371,862 and the amount charged to the telecommunications service for superannuation was $12,690,404. So, a total of about $33m was paid out on superannuation. That is something about which everybody forgets, but it is an important factor that should be brought out. There is no question that we should be paying for superannuation. I am not objecting to that. But we should remember what the Post Office is doing with all the funds that are at its disposal. 
Yes; the amount is much more now. The current figures are not available. 'That is one of the matters about which I complain. The Post Office never produces its reports until after the Budget has been dealt with. We do not know where we are. We cannot analyse the current situation as we can analyse this annual report for 1968-69. I have not yet seen the annual report for 1969-70. 1 have asked for it. All 1 can obtain is a proposal for 1970-71. I had it here somewhere, but I threw it away because it was no good. 
It is a White Paper. I thought I had it here. But it is no good, anyway. It does not give these sorts of details which are what we want. 
That is far too long. In my opinion, the question of establishing a corporation or commission demands that we thoroughly examine the proposition in order to see what is involved and what advantages there would be in it. I am saying not that we should set up a commission immediately but that we should have an inquiry. As  Senator Willesee  pointed but,  Mr F.  P. O'Grady, who was a great friend of mine personally and still is, knew exactly what was going on in the Post Office when he was DirectorGeneral, and since he retired he has pointed out that we should have this sort of change in Post Office administration in order to enable the Post Office to perform the sort of functions that the people of Australia want in their telecommunications and postal services. 
Every union of which 1 know, with the exception of one, is in favour of an inquiry. The only one that is not in favour is one that represents white collar workers. That union is the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. It has not really examined the situation. It thinks that under a commission its members would lose the opportunity to move from one part of the government service to another. That would be a legitimate complaint if if. were true. But in Great Britain this matter was considered and the relevant legislation there gives a person the right to move from the post office commission into another sector of the government service. That difficulty has been overcome. So the objection that was raised by the ACOA is not valid. 
With reference to the cost increases which are now proposed to be imposed on the public of Australia, I believe that it is far too early for such increases to be introduced, bearing in mind that the last increases in telephone and postal charges were introduced in 1967. Now is not the time to do this. We should be examining whether there are any other methods of overcoming the present problem. I believe that asking the people of Australia again to pay increased charges for a service that they consider is not up to the standard they require is an affront to them. I hope that we will see value from this tremendous organisation which this year will handle something like SI. 000m. That sum does not include the capital involved. We should see that this organisation is taken out of the reaim of control of a Minister. lt should be placed in the hands of directors who can ensure that it functions adequately and efficiently, having proper regard to the money involved; who can obtain good rates of interest and ensure that it functions in the interests of the people. I hope,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that the Opposition receives support for the amendment we have moved in order to bc able to proceed further with this particular matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has consideration been given by the Treasurer to amending the zone allowance deduction provision of the income tax law by reducing the eligibility period from 6 months to 5 months in a taxation year to enable school teachers in the zones, whose teaching year extends from February to November inclusive, to become eligible? At present a school teacher in Western Australia can be teaching in a zone  allowance  area for 10 months in a calendar year and receive no deduction. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs the Senate knows, from time to time honourable senators very properly raise the question of examination of zone allowances. My answer has always been that this is a matter that the Treasurer examines every year at Budget time when he is making up his mind as to what the Budget will be and what will be the result of any representations in relation to allowances. But in this instance  Senator Wilkinson  brings out a particular case which has particular reference to the occupation of the person or the type of work he does. I will undertake to have that referred immediately to the Treasurer. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the  Postmaster-Genera). A  number of telephone subscribers in Western Australia are complaining by letter to the Press and personally to me that telephone accounts due in September have been held over and dated 2nd October to include the increased costs recently imposed. Can the Minister give any explanation for this action which would appear to be contrary to usual business practice? 
I thought that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who is in charge of this Bill, together with the Sulphate of Ammonia Bounty Bill 1970, the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill 1970, the Pyrites Bounty Bill 1970 and the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty BUI 1970, would have suggested that the 5 Bills be taken together. I suggest that this procedure be adopted. 
I think this is a wise procedure because these Bills are purely machinery matters. The purpose of the 5 measures is to extend for 6 months the bounty which operates until 30th June this year. In 1968 it became evident that the situation with regard to the manufacture of nitrogenous fertilisers and cellulose acetate flake had changed and it was considered wise to refer the manufacture of these products to the Tariff Board to ascertain whether there should be any change in the current tariff on these substances. Debate went on for some time in another place with regard to the bounties which should be paid on these substances, but it seems to me that this is not the time to examine the situation which should obtain. We should be waiting until the Tariff Board report has been considered by the Government and is presented to us for our consideration. I understand that the Tariff Board, after a fairly lengthy period - the delay being due probably to lack of staff to examine proposals such as these - has made a report on each of these 5 bounty propositions and the reports are at present in the hands of the Government. 
It seems to me that at mis stage what we should do is to extend the operation of the present bounties until the reports have been presented to Parliament. The Bills propose that the bounties should not continue for any longer period than is necessary to enable the reports to be brought for consideration of Parliament, at which time the bounties would be varied as and if necessary. I think the only criticism that I can make is that the time which has elapsed between the reference of these matters to the Tariff Board and the presentation of the reports to the Government has been too long. In view of the manpower available to the Tariff Board to examine the need for a change in the level of bounties brought about by variations in the manufacture of various commodities, I suggest that too many matters are referred to the Board for its consideration. I suggest that these reports should have been presented much earlier. However, the Opposition has no objection to a continuation of the bounty at its present level on the 5 items referred to in these Bills. W,e, shall not oppose the measures. We consider that the bounties should continue until the reports have been presented to the Parliament, at which time we can deal with the matters in detail and consider whether, we are prepared to accept the recommendations or whether we think they should be varied. We do not oppose the Bills. 
 I interrupt the flow of this legislation to ask the Minister whether it is correct that a report has also been submitted by the Tariff Board in relation to this matter and will be dealt with in the 6-month period? This is the only report about which I am not sure. 
My question is  to the Leader of the Government in the Senate also. I am informed that the National Mutual Life Assurance Company and some other assurance companies are circularising policy holders who have been granted loans on their policies, informing them that interest will be increased to8 per cent. As the loan agreements do not permit such an increase, policy holders are being asked to enter into new agreements in which variations of interest rates will be permitted, and if they refuse an immediate repayment of the loan is demanded. Is the Minister aware of this practice? Is there any action that the Government can take to protect the interests of such policy holders? 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General investigate complaints made in letters to the Press, and personally to me, that telephone accounts duein 
September have been held over and dated 2nd October, and have included the increased costs recently imposed. 
Can the Postmaster-General give any explanation for this action which would appear to be contrary to usual business practice. 
and (2) The accounts to which the senator refers include rental charges which date from 1st October and although recognised as the October accounts they are normally issued in September. 
The increased telephone tariffs are operative from 1st October 1970, and payable in respect of ali services as from that date. Subscribers whose October accounts did not include the higher rental charge will receive their next bills in April 1971, and in addition to 6 months rental in advance at the higher rate, those bills will also include a rental adjustment from 1st October 1970. 
Experience has shown that most telephone subscribers prefer to have any tariff adjustments included in their accounts at the earliest date so as to escape the cumulative effect of backdated adjustments in later accounts. Before a rental tariff adjustment can be included in telephone accounts a considerable amount of preliminary work is necessary on departmental records. On this occasion, Queensland and Western Australia were the only States in a position to adjust the October accounts and the increased tariff for the corresponding accounts in other States will be billed in April 1971. 
In Queensland and Western Australia special efforts were made to include the increased rates in the October bills to avoid the effect on subscribers of adjusting the longer period in the April 1971. accounts. This caused the normal cycle of bill despatch to be extended by about 1 week and the October bills, which would normally have been despatched during September, could not be delivered before 2nd October. In order that subscribers would have a full 14 days in which to pay their accounts, the date was amended' and the payment terms read 'Payable within 14 days of 2nd October 1970'. 
I consider this to be a most remarkable Bill. 1 say that advisedly and I will develop my point in what I have to say. The Bill is concerned with convertible notes. Convertible notes enable investors to invest capital in a concern without actually purchasing shares or taking up debentures. Debentures, of course, are covered by mortgage, whereas shares have to be paid for to the extent to which calls are made. Until 1960 the interest on convertible notes was tax deductible and many companies used them as a device to avoid taxation for some of their shareholders. Dividends on shares were taxable, but by issuing to shareholders convertible notes in lieu of dividends it ensured that the interest on the notes in future would be tax deductible. 
These notes also were generally convertible to shares at a time to suit the people who held the notes. They were generally convertible at the value of the shares when the convertible notes were first taken over. The convertible notes could be redeemed at very short notice and were, therefore, a very valuable commodity in the hands of investors. The investors incurred very little risk and their capital was not tied up as it would be in shares. The investors could quickly realise on the convertible notes if they wished to do so. They could also take advantage of the opportunity to turn them into shares and thus do quite well because the value of the shares might have increased and holders of convertible notes could take them up at the previous value. 
This situation obtained up to 1960 when the Government decided to withdraw the provision of lax deductibility to prevent companies and investors legally - 1 emphasise that it was legally - avoiding taxation which could be considered a moral responsibility. I wanted to find out what is involved in this issue. In his second read-, ing speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  did not give us any idea of how much the Government would lose in revenue through the re-introduction of tax deductibility of convertible notes that is proposed in this measure. He seemed to present a fairly straightforward argument in introducing the Bill. I decided to explore [he position back to I960. I had some trouble locating the Bill because the name has be?n changed. In 1958 the name of the Act was changed from the Income Tax Assessment Act to the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act. 
The suggestion has been made to me that perhaps we could take this Bill and the two related Bills together. However, this Bill differs from the other two, and in my opinion we should not confuse the convertible notes matter with the ordinary income tax matters covered by the other Bills. I think we can deal with this Bill quickly. I will not be long. I studied the second reading speech on the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Bill made in 1960 by the late  Mr Harold  Holt, who was then Treasurer. I shall quote a couple of extracts from his speech to show that even at that point the question of convertible notes was glossed over without any particular emphasis.  Mr Holt  said in his opening remarks: 
These proposals relate respectively to the treatment for income tax purposes of interest on borrowings in general by certain classes of companies, and to interest on convertible notes. 
At page 3583 of Hansard of 6th December 1 960 he is reported to have said:   . . our broad aim will be to reduce as far as possible the advantages which deductibility of interest provides for companies which seek to borrow excessive amounts of money at excessive rates of interest - the accent here being very much on the term 'excessive'. 
I should like honourable senators to notice the emphasis that was placed by the Treasurer at that time on the situation of convertible notes. At the end of the same page he went on to say: 
The Bill also deals with our proposal to disallow henceforth interest on convertible notes. Unlike the interim scheme on deductibility in general, which has application only to income tax assessed in respect of 1960-61, the provisions relating to convertible notes are intended to have effect indefinitely. 
I should like to underline the word indefinitely'. A little later in his speech he said: 
The purpose of the new provision is to ensure that deductions are not allowed for amounts raised by a company as borrowings but which are really designed to be a permanent investment in the company and ultimately converted into share capital.  1 should like to quote also another paragraph which puts the matter very strongly. lt reads: 
There has recently been a strong trend for companies to issue convertible notes in lieu of shares, and by this means they have been obtaining a deduction for interest paid on the notes. If however, they had issued share capital, any dividends paid on that share capital would not have been allowed as a deduction in arriving at their taxable income. The notes have in substance more in common with the permanent capital of the company than they have with either short term or long term borrowings. Iiic holders of the notes are, very often if nol invariably, given rights correspondingly very closely with those of shareholders. lt is in these circumstances that the Government has decided- 
I emphasise this because, at this time in 1960-61, this was the attitude. The report continues:  that in arriving at the taxable incomes of companies that issue convertible notes in the future, the interest on the notes will not be deductible. 
It will be seen from the Treasurer's second reading speech at that time that no reference was made to the amount of money involved or to what extent Government revenue was being whittled away. For this reason I decided to look at the debate which ensued on this Bill in another place on that occasion, In the course of the remarks made by  Mr Crean  during that debate some very interesting facts came out. We find that in the Budget for 1953-54, total new capital raisings had fallen to $H6m. I have converted the amounts into dollars to conform to the present currency. Of that SI 16m, shares accounted for $85m and debentures for S3 1 m. So the ratio of shares to debentures was almost 2 to I. At that stage debentures would not have included convertible notes. If we move then to 1957-58 we find that the total raisings for development amounted to $234m, of which shares provided $70m only, and that the value of debentures had increased to $164m. This is an extremely significant change in the pattern of borrowing. 
In 1959-60, which was just prior to this Act coming into force, the money available for investment in development had increased to $493m, of which $96m came from shares and S387m came from debentures. At this stage convertible notes had come into the picture. That was the situation in 1960 which disturbed the Government. I can quite understand it, because that was the amount of revenue that was being lost on convertible notes issued, which put the amount outside the Government's taxation field. At that stage the Labor Party Opposition agreed with the limitation on this tax deductibility of convertible notes and voted in support of the measure. What sort of change has taken place since then? The Government now has had second thoughts on this question. All the arguments that were adduced by the Treasurer at that lime apparently are not now valid, lt has been decided to restore tax deductibility of the interest on convertible notes in certain circumstances. 1 agree that there are certain circumstances which now have to be met. 
Up to this point, 1 have given the history of convertible notes and the broad principle of re-introducing tax deductibility on these notes. That is fairly straight-forward. But now the Bill starts to become quite complicated. When we examine the conditions that are imposed we find that it is quite difficult to determine whether the matter of the issue of convertible notes is straight-forward or not. I have tried to analyse the situation and to put it in terms as simple as possible. It seems to mc that a number of restrictions have been placed on the issue of convertible notes, but provided that these restrictions are met it is possible for a lender to take up convertible notes and to operate them very satisfactorily. But there are conditions which apply. First, a person cannot convert a convertible note into a share within less than 2 years after the note has been issued. He cannot hold a convertible note for longer than 10 years. If he wants to convert it to a share it must be done 1 2 months before the end of the 10 year period for it to qualify as a deductible concession in his income tax. Also, because he meets these requirements, he will be allowed to take up his note at the value of the share obtaining at that time, and at the time when he converts, no matter what has happened - even if the share value has skyrocketed - he can still take the share in lieu of his note at the price that it bore when he first took up the note. I should like now to refer to the remarks made by the Treasurer in introducing the Bill now before the Senate. He said: 
The first test is that the option to take up shares - which may be shares in the capital of the borrowing company or another company - must rest solely with the lender and not with the company. A normal characteristic of fixed-interest finance is, of course, that a lender has the right to receive repayment in cash. This lest recognises this feature. At the same time, it will serve to impede legal lax avoidance by companies through their adoption of arrangements calculated to give a deferred share issue the semblance and guise of a fixed-interest borrowing.  1 want you to note this surprising feature,  Mr Acting Deputy  President: 
The shares mat are the subject of this option may be fully paid shares of the company making the convertible issue or of an associated company, such as, for example, a subsidiary or parent company. lt will be of no significance whether the shares into which the securities may be converted are issued to, and owned by, a Third Party, or are to be specially allotted to satisfy the exercise of the option to convert. 
This is a surprising thing. Cun you understand now,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  why I said at the beginning of my speech that I consider this to be a remarkable Bill? Although these features can be explained away, I suppose, to the ordinary person they would give the impression that the Government is providing to lenders an outlet which is full of opportunities that will be of considerable value to them if they meet their taxation requirements. 1 have mentioned the time limitations. They apply specifically to an Australian lender. An overseas lender will receive slightly better conditions. An Australian lender has to take up his note for at least 7 years whereas an overseas lender does not have to meet that requirement. The Minister, when presenting his second reading speech, felt that the Bill needed more explanation than he gave in his few words and he produced a supplementary document. This document is very valuable because it is full of information on the lines of what I have said already. I think 1 have said enough to show the reasons for the opposition of the Australian Labor Party to the reintroduction of this measure. 
The Opposition opposes the Bill on the principle that -it allows tax deductibility to an area of investment which already is receiving interest on capital involved. In addition, by inviting capital for development in this way there is a distinct possibility of a further rise in interest rates. This is an extremely serious situation and I think we have to guard against it at this time when interest rates already are high because of increased capital demand. Finally, the Opposition has not heard any good reason advanced up to- this stage for the rcinlroduction of this tax deductibility on convertible notes. We consider that the Bill is unnecessary and unwarranted, and we oppose it. 
On behalf of the Opposition. I move the following amendment to the Income Tax Bill 1970: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert - the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted because whilst it reduces rates of taxation it does so in a regressive manner.' 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
We have been looking forward to the introduction of this legislation for 3 years. In 1967 the then Treasurer said in his Budget Speech that he felt that the economy of the country was in such a buoyant condition that it would be advisable for the Government to look closely at the taxation schedules, particularly those covering the lower and middle income groups. He was acting on the advice of officials of the Department of the Treasury. The then Treasurer gave the impression that some measure of relief would be provided in the Budget the following year to these 2 groups of taxpayers. No legislation was presented in 1968 which would give effect to this desirable result, but again the then Treasurer indicated that this avenue should be investigated and some relief should be given. He gave those people who listened to his Budget Speech the impression that although it was not possible to provide relief at that time it would be provided in another 12 months. 
A House of Representatives election was held in 1969. In his policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  also said that he believed that some relief should be given to the lower and middle income groups and that we could confidently look forward to this situation. It can be seen that on 3 occasions the suggestion has been made by responsible people that some relief should be given to taxpayers in these 2 groups. At last, in 1970, legislation has been introduced - in particular, the Income Tax Bill - which will give effect to the promises of the Government to reduce the difficulties and problems faced by taxpayers in the lower and middle income groups. 
In introducing the Income Tax Bill in this chamber the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said: 
By their nature, the proposed reductions - greater on a percentage basis at the lower end of the scale, tapering off to nil at the higher end of the scale - are aimed at a more equitable distribution of the burden of personal income tax. 
I propose to examine this aspect. The Opposition is not concerned about percentage reductions; it is concerned about the. value of these reductions to the taxpayer in dollars and cents. 1 hope that I will be able to demonstrate this aspect in my remarks. Most of the information which has been made available is in regard to percentages. It is very easy to get a false picture of the situation by not translating the percentages into the actual monetary benefit to the taxpayer. The Leader of the Government went on to say: 
By comparison with the present rates scale,the proposed general rates scale provides reductions of some 10 per cent intax payable on taxable incomes up to$1 0,000. On taxable income above $1 0,000 the percentage reductions in tax taper off, reaching 4.4 per cent at $20,000 and cutting out altogether at $32,000. 
It was a surprise to me to learn that the Government regards a person who earns $32,000 a year as coming within the middle income group. I regard the maximum income of a person in this group as being $10,000 a year. Those who receive less than $10,000 a year are the ones who are really burdened under the present taxation schedules. 
Let us examine a few facts and figures. In the year ended 30th June 1968, 71,000 taxpayers out of a total of 5 million, which represents 2 per cent of the taxpaying public, earned in excess of$1 0,000 a year. These people were responsible for 20 per cent of the income tax collected. I consider that those who earn less than $10,000 a year constitute the lower and middle income groups. An examination of the Budget Papers, which take into account the 1967-68 financial year, reveals that just over 4 million taxpayers or 80 per cent of the taxpaying public were earning between $417 and $4,000. One arrives at some interesting facts by further dividing these figures. Those people in the. 417 to $1,800 taxable income group - that is, those earning less than$35 a week - earn 10 per cent of the total income of taxpayers and pay 4 per cent of the total taxation. I am allowing for the normal taxation deductions which would bc claimed. 
Those in the $1,801 to $2,400 income group - that is, those earning between $35 and $45 a week. - earn 10 per cent of the total income of taxpayers and pay 7 per cent of the total taxation. Those in the $2,40:1 to $2,800 income group - that is, those earning between $45 and $54 a week - earn 10 per cent of the total income and also pay 7 per cent of the total taxation. The next 10 per cent group is those earning $2,801 to $3,200 a year, which represents $54 to $62 a week. They pay 8 per cent of the taxation. The group earning from $3,201 to $3,600 - that is the group earning $62 to $69 a week - pays 6 per cent of the taxation. That is the last 10 per cent of the total income of taxpayers I am considering. Those groups account for 50 per cent of the taxpayers. On those figures it takes about three-quarters of the taxpayers who earn one half of the total income of taxpayers to pay some onethird of the tax which comes to revenue. The other half of the total income is earned by only one-quarter of the taxpayers who pay two-thirds of the tax. As I said earlier, of these taxpayers 2 per cent earn over $10,000 and they pay 20 per cent of the tax. lt is obvious that there is serious maldistribution of income. Progressive income schedules should act as a form of correcting this maldistribution. But the relief embodied in this Bill does little to achieve this, lt is relief in actual money but not in percentage that we have to think of. The situation becomes real in terms of human need when we consider that a person whose taxable income is $500 will receive 82c a year relief which is just over l-Vc a week. A person with a taxable income of $16,000 which the Government apparently considers to be in the middle income group - although 1 consider it is slightly outside that - will receive $500 a year or nearly $10 a week relief. I ask honourable senators to notice that the $500 which the second person receives in relief is the santa amount as the taxable income of the first person whom I used to illustrate my argument and he receives relief of 82c a week. Yet this tax is presented as being equitable. 
An examination of the tax paid by anyone in the group with a taxable income of $4,000 will show how serious and unjust is the method which has been adopted by the Government. In considering the relief proposed in the schedule it is important to remember the 21 per cent increase in sales tax, the increase in the price of petrol and other increases brought about by this Budget, lt means that taxpayers in the low and middle income groups will finish up much worse than they were previously. I intended to mention a point when I was dealing with the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1970. I would like to know, but have been unable to find out, how much revenue the Government is going to lose by the introduction of tax deductibility on convertible notes, lt seems to me that here is the avenue of which we could have made some use in relieving extra costs which have been passed on to the public. I remember that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who is at the table on 2 occasions in the last 2 days chided the Opposition for wanting to remove some extra taxes. I am thinking particularly of the 24 per cent sales tax. He said: You have to get the money from somewhere.' I agree. The Government has to get the money from somewhere. I think this is one avenue. I would tike to know how much the Government is losing in revenue by adopting the principle in the Bill which has just been passed - the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1970. 
Last week in the Budget session I drew attention to the fact that the taxation schedule had remained the same since 1954-55 except that a 2.5 per cent general levy has been added and the amount which can be earned before incurring income tax has been changed. But the schedule and the rates have remained the same. Wages have increased 100 per cent and wages and salary earners have therefore moved into higher tax brackets. Honourable senators can see that while in 1954-55 it took 5 weeks wages to pay income tax, last year - I do not have the figure for this year - it took 9.2 weeks work to pay for the income tax. This does not present an insurmountable problem to the higher income earners but it docs impose an intolerable burden on what I call the Mow and middle income group'. I reiterate that 1 consider this group to be those earning up to $10,000. 
The Opposition is concerned with this situation. I believe I have shown that the way in which tax is being imposed on different stratas of society is inequitable. It is also regressive. I do not mean it is regressive in the normal term of just going back to something that was before. It is noi doing that. I am thinking of the economic sense of the word 'regressive' which means that it bears no relationship to the ability to pay. This is quite a different thing. This is- the interpretation of regressive as applied in the amendment which I have moved. The Opposition is very concerned about this Bill which we have looked forward to for 3 years. Now that it is presented it does not meet the case as we feel it should. We can find many anomalies in this legislation. We feel we are justified in moving this amendment. We think the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted. There would be no difficulty in considering this because Supply is available until the end of November. 
 In my speech in the second reading debate I asked for an explanation of the formula that is included in proposed sub-section (2.) of section 5 of the Act. I hope that the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  will be able to give an answer on that now. 
This is a machinery Bill which is not opposed by the Opposition. At the same time it is a very important measure because it involves the expenditure of $3,379,000 by way of a bounty on non-fat milk products. This is something new; it applies to skim milk powder, buttermilk powder and casein. It is interesting to note that this Bill has been introduced to take the place of legislation providing for devaluation payments made over the last 3 years as a result of the currency devaluation in Great Britain. In the Estimates debate for the last 2 years, and again this year, I have commented on the fact that the Government was still making devaluation payments when obviously it was well known to all producers and all manufacturers that there had been a change in the value of sterling in the United Kingdom and now of the dollar. 
This is an interesting Bill. You will recall,  Mr Deputy President,  that in a recent debateI advocated an appreciation of the value of proteins exported from this country. The world is crying out for proteins, not for carbohydrates, and we should be considering ways of increasing our protein exports. It is worth noting that our exports of skim milk powder and casein have increased considerably over the last 12 months. The increase is of the order of 16 per cent. In 1969-70 we produced 91,000 tons of skim milk powder of which we exported 52,800 tons, which is a very significant amount. That 16 per cent increase on the previous year represented a very creditable performance. We produced 35,500 tons of casein of which 30,000 tons was exported. However, a problem is going to arise. These are by-products of our butter and cheese. At the moment there is a limit on the production of butterfat and cheese in order to attract the bounty from the Government and to establish the price of 34c for butterfat. The limit is 220,000 tons of butterfat and 70,000 tons of cheese.I envisage that if our export market increases, as would appear to be the case, the Government may have to give consideration to this trend and see what can be done to assist production of dried milk and casein. 
There is only one point about the Bill itself to which I want to refer. Section 5 of the principal Act, which is being amended, relates to the rate of bounty to be paid.I would like the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brock man),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  to give the Senate some explanation of the complicated method set out for the determination of the bounty. I am referring now only to dried milk; the situation is even more complicated in the case of casein. Clause 5 of the Bill states, in part:  " (2.) The rare of the bounty in respect of any dried milk product or casein produced and exported during the year that commenced on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy, shall be ascertained in accordance with the formula 

<graphic href="046232197010274_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

I think this could have been explained in a much more simple way. I do not see why it had to be so complicated. Also, 1 think that the wording of the definitions of 'a' and ;c' are too close to being identical to convey to the mind of the ordinary reader of the Bill what is meant. The Senate will notice that 'a' is 'a number equal to the number of pounds of the dried milk product' and that 'c' is 'a number equal to the number of pounds of the total quantity of dried milk products produced and exported during that year'. Apparently this is just the difference between production and export during the year. So a fraction of the amount of $1,804,000 is to be made available by way of a bounty to dried milk products. I think the Minister should give us a little explanation of this. 
I think the other parts of the Bill represent a step in the right direction. We are doing away with the provision for devaluation payments that operated in the past and are putting this on a firmer basis, a more businesslike basis. The Opposition supports the Bill but would like the explanation I referred to if it is available. 
by leave - I am astounded that on a tremendously important statement such as this the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  in presenting it, did not move for the Senate to take note of the paper. 
Ministers normally do it straight away. I intended to ask that the Minister do that so that the debate could then be adjourned. He has now signified that he will move that motion. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - by leave - As it appears to be the wish of the Opposition, I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
Clause 7 deals with the membership of the Commission. When I spoke in the second reading debate 1 expressed some diffidence about the membership. Since I have spoken there have been a number of speakers from the Government benches who have claimed that this was a very good representation. Therefore, I want to ask the Minister what his altitude is to this provision. We are supposed to be considering a Bill which will be to the advantage of the wool grower. 

 Commission Bill 1803 
This is not a Bill which is to the advantage of the broker or the buyer; it is to the advantage of the wool grower. This being so, my contention when  1  spoke first was that we should have had perhaps a greater representation of the wool growers and a lesser representation of the  3  other members who are representing the brokers and the buyers. I think it is still a legitimate objection to raise. I express my feelings again because I do not think this point was dealt wilh in the discussion which occurred after I made my original address. 
 I might be able to clear up this matter. Although I am in some agreement with the remarks of my friend and colleague, 1 do not think  Senator Wright  has quite given the explanation that we are looking for. Perhaps this is the correct explanation: Clause 18 (t.) (g) provides that this Commission will have power: to make arrangements for the sale, . . . and for the processing. . . . lt we leave out all the words in between, I think we will find that this is what is intended - that the Commission can make arrangements for the sale of wool and it can make arrangements for its processing. 
Yes. 
 I was about to move onto clause 7, butI do not want to do that if we have not finished dealing with clause 4 or if someone else wants to deal with clauses 5 and 6.I do not want to leave the matter raised by  Senator Cant  unanswered by the Minister.I am hoping that the Minister may be able to give us a reply beforeI open up a different subject.I will want an answer to my question too. I would like to go on to clause 7, but perhaps the Minister is ready to give a reply to  Senator Cant  now. 
At last the Senate has an opportunity to consider legislation which the wool industry has been keenly awaiting for a long time. The wool industry has been eagerly hoping that some assistance would be provided to it and that some guarantee would be given for the future of the industry. The wool producers hope that the industry into which they have put a lot of work over many years will continue as a viable one. I do not need to tell anybody that the wool industry is in an extremely critical situation. In the last couple of years there has been tremendous united action throughout Australia on the part of primary producers. This action was initiated by the wheat growers. The situation has developed to the stage where action has been taken by wool producers. Their actions have been echoed by the dairy farmers. There have also been repercussions in the banana and pineapple industries. In fact, there has been considerable disquiet in every section of primary industry at the present trends. 
I believe that I should at the outset voice my objection to the undue delay in the presentation of this legislation. The Bill has been introduced during the closing stages of the session. I atn not saying that it was not necessary for something to be done; 1 am saying that it should have been done earlier. The Australian Labor Party had a look at the wool situation and on 22nd May produced an il-point programme which it considered was worthy of consideration by wool growers. Its programme has received quite considerable approval from them. But what has happened in the Parliament? We find that this Bill was hurriedly introduced in the other place at the beginning of this week. The debate on it took place on Wednesday. Although I am vitally interested in this subject I was not able to get a copy of the Bill until Tuesday evening of this week. The Bill itself was introduced in the Senate yesterday after the debate had concluded in the other place. I saw the second reading speech of the responsible Minister only the night before. It has been extremely difficult for me to formulate a reasonable speech on this vitally important Bill because of the limitations which have been imposed on the debate in order to force the Bill through the Parliament. It is worth pointing out that it was only possible at a late hour last night to formulate, in conjunction with the  Clerk  of the Senate, appropriate amendments to bring before the Senate. That was the first opportunity we had to formulate them. It is only within the last quarter of an hour that these amendments have been duplicated and distributed. I therefore apologise to the Government, the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  who is in charge of this Bill, and senators of the Australian Democratic Labor Party because they have had notice of the amendments we propose to move at the Committee stage only within the last few minutes. Our problem is no different from the problem of DLP senators. If they wish to propose amendments to this Bill, they are caught in the same dilemma as we are. 
I have said that protests were made all over Australia at the seriousness of the situation. About 2 months ago in addressing a question without notice I quoted a report which appeared m the 'West Australian' describing the situation of farmers in that State. Of course, I was not able to quote the whole of the article at that time and 1 do not propose to quote it all now. However, 1 will quote portion of the article which appeared on the front page of the West Australian' under the heading '3,000 WA Farmers May Be Forced Off The Land'. The article is written by the agricultural reporter of the newspaper. It states, in part: 
About 3,000 West Australian grain and sheep farmers now appear to be in a near hopeless financial position and are almost certain to have to leave their farms in the next few years. About 1 in 5 wheat and sheep fanners is unable to pay debts and earn a reasonable living. They cannot borrow more money . . . Consideration may have to be given to abandoning some of the areas recently opened up and resettling the farmers elsewhere. Up to another 5,000 farmers are in no immediate danger of being forced off, but are having trouble servicing debts which average about $30,000 a farm and run up to $70,000 to $80,000 . . . The total rural debt in Western Australia is now more than $200m owed to banks, slock firms, insurance companies, hire purchase companies and other lenders. These figures, which do not include dairy and horticultural fanners are based on discussions with government officials, representatives of lending institutions and farm leaders . . . Farm values are estimated to have fallen 20 per cent to 25 per cent in the past 18 months. 
The whole of that article is well worth reading to get an impression of the situation in Western Australia. I do not think for one moment that that is the only area of Australia in which the wool industry is experiencing difficulties.- I want now to mention the demands that are being made by the farmers themselves to get some assistance in the problems they are facing. I have travelled fairly extensively in the south west of Western Australia. I have talked with wool growers from other States. All their ideas seem to crystallise along the one line and I will describe the points they have been considering for at least the last 2 years. They are making 5 demands. Firstly, they are asking that there should be a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market wool; secondly, that there should be majority grower representation on such authority; thirdly, that there should be a guaranteed price to cover production costs; fourthly, that there should be no limit on wool to be acquired or held, and fifthly, that there should be an attack on the cost price squeeze. 
I propose to deal with those items but first [ turn to the possibilities in endeavouring to get better prices for the wool we are selling. I obtained from the Library quite a volume of material on textile companies - a whole host of them ranging from European textile mills to Japanese textile mills - which shows that they are in varying degrees of solvency and conduct their operations with varying degrees of efficiency. I draw from the information that I obtained the cases of 2 Japanese firms because it is with Japan that we are finding considerable difficulty in maintaining good prices for our wool. It will be remembered that only recently  Mr Gorton,  the Prime Minister, was in Japan discussing, amongst other things, the matter of wool prices and expressing the hope that we might be able to achieve a better result than we have been achieving in recent times. On his return he sent the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  to Japan, I think much against the wishes of the Minister who thought that he was going on a fool's errand. Nevertheless  Mr McEwen  went.  Mr Anthony  also went. The buyers and millers in Japan with whom they discussed the matter of wool prices assured them that it was not possible to pay any more than they were paying. They pointed out to the Ministers that they were paying the world price, and that was it. Honestly. I do not believe for one moment that the buyers would have said: Oh, yes. we can give you another 5c,' or We will increase the price by 2c' They are business men and they know what they are doing in the field of profit making. 
I have selected 2 of the companies on the list supplied to me because they are the 2 best illustrations for my purpose and there is no reason why I should not select them. They said that Japan cannot afford to pay more for Australian wool. One company, Japan Wool Textiles, earned a profit rate in the vicinity of 30 per cent in the period from December 1966 to May 1967. In the following half-year from June 1967 to December 1967 the profit rate rose to over 40 per cent, but in the next half-year from December 1967 to May 1968 - that is as far as the figures go - the profit rate dropped to 36 per cent. 
 These are the percentages mentioned in the material that I have obtained from the Library. Whether it is profit on the amount of capital invested, which 1 doubt, or whether it is profit on working expenses for the year, which I think is much more likely, I do not know. 
If this were profit on the capital ot. the company it would be a tremendous profit. 
Yes it would. The  profit  is 30 per cent. The profits of another Japanese mill, which has sales of about $10m and produces only textiles, were even greater than those I have quoted. This is a well established firm which has been in operation since 1918. Over the period to which I referred in respect of the first company, this company had a profit rate of 85 per cent in the first half-year, 88 per cent in the second half- year and 93 per cent in the third half-year. In regard lo  Senator Webster's  interjection, 1 say that that is probably the rate of profit on capital. It is still very good business. Do not let us get away from that. 
Yes, it does. I consider that the profits the companies are making are quite good. 1 could go further into the matter and work out the profits they are making on transactions or on their yearly operations; but it is up to the honourable senator to do that if he wants to. I am just quoting these figures. 1 consider that the companies are well able to meet the extra price for wool which should be paid. 
It ls very interesting to realise that Japan is one of the strongest advocates of the proposition that if we want to produce belter prices for our wool we have to produce and prepare a better clip. Anybody who has been around wool sheds realises that a terrific amount of very good work is put into the presentation of the clip. 1 am not saying that there are not some clips that are badly presented. But one has only to go clown to the wool stores and have a look at the wool that is presented to see that in the main it is well presented. In my opinion this criticism is used to write down our valuation of our own clip. This is something which I believe we have to guard against. 
When we are considering the price of wool, which I believe could be very much better than it is, another question to consider is: Where is the wool going? We have mentioned in this chamber before that the suits that we wear have about H lb of wool in them. If we doubled the price of the wool it would not make any difference at all to the $60, $70 or $80 that we pay for a suit. If the wool goes into carpets, what about the carpet in Australian Pavilion at Expo 70 in Japan? It astounded everybody by having 16 million people walking across it during the time the pavilion was open and still being in good condition when the exhibition finished: whereas the synthetic carpets were replaced twice during the period of the exhibition. I believe that we are being scared by the threat of synthetics. Do we find that we have any surplus of wool when we have finished our yearly operation? I suppose everybody will rush in and say: 'Look what happened to New Zealand. It had a surplus'. New Zealand had a surplus because it was conducting a reserve price scheme in conjunction with South Africa and we were not. We were the ones who were breaking the agreement. That is what happened in that case. 1 consider that there is collusive buying. At the sales in Sydney a month ago, at which a large number of bales were dealt with, there were 6 buyers to purchase the wool. If anybody wants to tell me that there was not collusion there he will have to bring some very good arguments. We have heard a lot about the presentation of this Bill. We have heard that it has the support of  Sir John  Crawford. I think some people have said that he actually produced the report on which the Bill is based. He did not do that at all. He had a look at the report of the advisory committee and made his report from that. That is quite different. The Government followed, as far as it. thought was possible, the suggestions that he made after reading the report. I would like honourable senators to know that  Sir John  Crawford met the Rural Committee of the Parliamentary Labor Party. He told us that in his opinion - he is only one of many - there is collusive buying in the wool trade. There is no doubt about that. 
Let us have a look at the Bill and see how it meets the demands that have been made by the farmers over the last couple of years. Their first suggestion was for a statutory authority. This is something on which the farmers of Australia have been insisting for the last couple of years. What do we find? The Government is proposing a statutory authority, but has wrapped it up with so many difficult situations that this statutory authority will not function in the way that was intended by the farmers when they asked for one. They asked for a single statutory authority. This authority will not be a single statutory authority able to acquire the whole Australian wool clip. That means that we will be left with a situation in which the growers will still have the right to go to a private buyer or to sell their wool under the auction system, as they have done in the past. They do not have to put their wool through the statutory authority. 
What will happen as a result of that? I predict that just about the only wool that will be handled by the statutory authority will be that which comes under the price averaging plan. Nobody else will send wool to the statutory authority. The growers do not have to do so. They can sell their wool in the ordinary way. They can put their reserve on it. If they receive their reserve they will be quite happy. If they do not receive their reserve the wool will stay on the floor. It will be at that stage - when they cannot get the price they are asking - that the brokers will ask the statutory authority to take over the wool. There are many difficulties with regard to the way the Government is setting up the statutory authority, but that is the most important one. It will not be a single statutory authority and it will not have the power to acquire the wool, to appraise it and to market it. It can do those things only on a voluntary basis. 
The next point was that there should be majority grower representation on any authority such as this. The authority that the Government proposes to set up looks all right on the surface. It will have 7 members. There will be a  chairman,  2 members representing the Australian wool growers, 1 member representing the Commonwealth and 3 other members. When we analyse this we find that the representatives of the Australian wool growers will be appointed after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Government has said all along that it believes that the Australian Wool Industry Conference represents the industry. A lot of people in the industry do not think it does. Every time this matter is brought up the Government insists that this is the only body it can go to because it does provide the view of the industry. But the farmers have not varied their claim that they want closer representation than they get from this body which does not represent wool growers as a whole. They consider there should be more wool grower representatives on the Commission, not just 2 or 3 other members who will represent the brokers and the buyers. They consider that if an authority is to sell our wool they should have more representatives from men on the land and less from buyers and brokers. 
It is interesting to note that any member who raises a matter to which the Minister objects can be removed at any time by the Minister. He can be reinstated or replaced by the Minister at any time. This is the sort of thing that wool growers will not accept in this Bill. They will feel that they have been let down. I do not propose to go much further because there is insufficient time available but if we look at the setup of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the Australian Wool Board and the Wool Advisory Committee we find the same people represented throughout. I have had this argument before with  Senator Young.  I am certain that we will find that those people who are able to spare the time to be members of such a commission will again be drawn from the AWIC. That is the sort of thing we object to. 
We should look at the question of a guaranteed price. This is something that wool growers are demanding. I know it is impossible to amend this Bill because it is a money Bill. We cannot include a fixed reserve price in it. If there is to be a price to cover the cost, of production it should be determined by some form of stabilisation scheme which is quite different from what is dealt with in this Bill. If we are to try to meet the cost of production we have to know the average cost of production throughout Australia. A lot of loose thinking is going on. People are saying that they want the figure of 45c written into the Bill. T. do not think we should do this and the Government was quite right in leaving it out. At the same time this is the sort of thing that wool growers have been demanding and they will feel quite upset if they do not get their cost of production. 
This could be worked out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It did this in the case of wheat and it could do it for wool. 
I am not trying to have this included in the Bill. I was saying that it could not be included. I did not say that I was supporting this idea. 
What I say is that I think the wool growers will object to not having something to cover the cost of production. I believe that it is difficult to write this sort of thing into anything, lt could only be done in a different type of Bill. This Bill was not designed for that purpose. The guaranteed price which wool growers are seeking is a very difficult thing to achieve. The Minister did not refer to how difficult it is to do this and just ignored the question. This is one of my objections. 
Wool growers are demanding that there be some recognition of the cost price squeeze problem. This matter concerns everyone of them. They find that their costs are rising while their income is decreasing. They believe there should be some recognition of this problem and that some attempts should be made to put it right. There is no mention in the Minister's second reading speech of his appreciation of this problem and it is not touched on in the Bill. The Bill does deal with one thing which farmers insist on. This is the fifth point I mentioned. The Bill makes the point that, there should be no limit on the amount of wool that the Commission can take over. If there were to be a limit we would find that all the buyers would wait until the limit had been reached and would then buy the remaining wool at rock bottom prices. The Bill states that there will be no limit on the acquisition of wool. The only objection is that this is not compulsory. However it can be taken over. 
I do support acquisition. I support acquisition of the whole clip. This is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I want to mention a couple of things in the Minister's speech and to give him credit for what I think is a very good statement. He said: 
In introducing this Bill the Government is acting in accordance with the wishes of the wool growing industry. 
I do not think that this is in accordance with the belief of people in the industry. I agree that this Bill probably meets the requirements of the Australian Wool Industry Conference but that is a different matter. The Minister continued: 
The  original resolutions passed by  the wool  growing industry organisations calling for  the  establish- ment of a statutory wool marketing authority used the term 'single marketing authority'. This term was still used by the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board in keeping with its terms of reference. The outline of the authority drawn up by the Advisory' Committee and which was endorsed by the industry and put to the Government clearly did not envisage a single body with monopoly powers to buy and sell the whole Australian wool clip, which the term 'single' implies. 
What was put to the Government was a body which should be given certain powers relating to the whole clip but working within the existing marketing arrangements in which a number of private firms carry out the physical task of selling wool. The Government has very largely adopted the proposals put to it by the industry and they have been embodied in this Bill. 
That was not the extract I wanted to read because it just points out what I have been saying all along - that this Bill does nol create the single authority. However, there was a remark in the Minister's speech for which I wanted to congratulate him. At that page he said: 
The Commission is empowered to purchase wool in two ways - through the operation of its flexible reserve price scheme after the wool has been offered at auction or, with the consent of the grower, before the wool is offered at auction In cases where it is considered that the wool cannot advantageously be sold at auction. In the latter case, the Commission would pay the grower a price equivalent to its most recent reserve price for the particular type of wool or such higher price as the Commission may determine. 
That is a very good statement and I am very much in favour of its being applied to this Bill. The unfortunate part is that it is not in the Bill. Nowhere in the Bill can we find it. A second reading speech has no more authority than anything 1 say. The only thing that counts is the Bill. That is the basis for any legal action which may be taken at any time. Putting those words iri to the second reading speech is a very good piece of window dressing, but it does not get us anywhere. 
I am concerned also about the financing of this scheme. The Australian Labor Party feels that it is not good policy to go to the associated banks or other financial authorities in order to obtain finance for this Commission as suggested in the Bm We in Australia, particularly those of us in the Labor Party, believe the Government should adopt the same principle as it has for financing the wheat stabilisation scheme, that is, of going to the Reserve Bank of Australia. This is the place to which we should go in order to finance schemes of this kind. The proposal in the Bill is an open ended type of arrangement. The Minister has said, that on the basis of calculations carried out by  Sir John  Crawford he does not expect that it will cost more than $115m to set the scheme in operation and that the cost of running the scheme each year would be of the order of $ 18.7m. But it could cost a lot more than that although I hope that it will cost much less.  I  would hope that an authority which is functioning correctly would have control of the majority of the clip would be able to sell the product and would have money coming in to meet the demands which are made on the banks. But this is something on which we will move an amendment in due course. 
We feel that the Bill does not meet the needs of the industry. There are the difficulties which I have enumerated and which stem mainly from the fact that it is not a single statutory authority. I think it would be of interest to put on record some of the main features of the ALP programme which we produced in May, some months before the proposal which is now in the Bill was put before us. We have been thinking about this for some time, just as Government supporters have been thinking about it. lt is not only since we have been dealing with the Bill that we have been giving the matter our attention. For the record and for  Senator Young  who was questioning me on what I said about a statutory authority, the main points of the ALP wool plan would be the establishment of a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the Australian wool clip on behalf of wool growers; a reconstruction scheme to assist in the solution of problems of production and to streamline selling methods; the creation of a capital fund to act as an insurance against price falls; and the authority to tackle cost disabilities in producing and marketing wool, particularly for export. 
We considered also the necessity for grower representation on the authority. Although I am not stating what should be the method of selection I suggest that representation on the authority should be arranged with the industry as a whole and not just with specialised groups like the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
Another point in our plan is that there should be a basic average appraisal price and a minimum reserve price or floor price on all wool. I have not stated all the points in our plan, but they are the most important ones. 
I would say a majority of grower representation. That is our policy. It does not include representatives of other bodies, which I think would be advisable, but the grower representation should be in a majority and the representatives should be carefully selected by growers themselves. I think that covers the main points. 1 shall not go through the amendments. We will be presenting them as we come to each part in the Committee stage. The proposed amendments will be circulated so that honourable senators will have knowledge of what is proposed. The point that the Government probably is waiting for is that, apart from the amendments which we will endeavour to introduce into the Bill, the Opposition does not oppose the measure. 
1 accept the explanation given by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry on the question that I asked about a quarter of an hour ago. In his reply the Minister said that the 2 members to be appointed to the Australian Wool Commission to represent the woolgrowers would be taken from each of the 2 bodies which form the Australian  Wool  Industry Conference. That is not my understanding of the Bill. I understand that the Minister is to select 2 people and that he will then consult the Australian Wool Industry Conference to see whether they would be suitable people to act on behalf of the woolgrowers. 
1 move: 
In sub-clause (I.), leave our 'Commission', insert Minister'. 
It seems to the Opposition fairly obvious that if we have gone to a lot of trouble to make sure that the members are correctly appointed, have the approval of the Australian Wool Commission and have been very carefully vetted, it should not be possible for one of the members then to appoint a proxy or  deputy  in his place with just the approval of the Commission. We feel that the Minister is the one who should have the authority to see that this is carried out in conformity with his wishes as the person in charge of the Australian Wool Commission. 1 do not think it is necessary to belabour the point any more because it seems to be perfectly obvious that the Minister should have the sole responsibility. Otherwise we might have some peculiar circumstance of people not being available at a particular time and appointing deputies, and possibly we would have people of whom the Commission approves but of whom the Minister does not approve. [ think this is an avenue that should be closed. 
I think that it is necessary for me to correct some of the statements that  Senator Greenwood  has just made. He has based the whole of his argument on a wrong premise. Being a lawyer, T am surprised that he has done this. Apparently  Senator Greenwood  was not present in the chamber when the amendment was moved. All that the amendment seeks to do is to substitute the word 'Minister' for the word Commission' in clause 11 (I.). The effect of this would be that the member could still appoint a  deputy  but it would be with the approval of the Minister.  Senator Greenwood  made the point that we were objecting to the appointment of a  deputy  by a member. This is not so. I hope that now he will get the message that we are not objecting to the clause in the Bill which enables a member to appoint a  deputy.  We say that this should be done with the approval of the Minister instead of the Commisson. 
1 move: 
In sub-clause (I.) after 'member', first occurring, insert 'or his deputy'. 
After sub-clause (1.) insert the following subclause: (1a.) If a member or his deputy has direct managerial or policy-making responsibility in any wool broking or wool-buying firm in Australia or elsewhere the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member or his deputy from office'. 
In sub-clause (2.) omit:  otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company consisting of not less than 25 persons'. 1 suggest for the purpose of convenience that these 3 amendments be debated together. It may be necessary when we come to the vote to separate the 3 of them because two propose to add words and the other proposes to omit words. But they deal with the same Bill and I think we can discuss them all together. 
The first amendment proposes the addition of the words or his  deputy'  after the word 'member'. Then the whole of the clause, including all the provisions under (a), (b), (c) and (d), would apply to a  deputy  as well as to the member himself. We feel this is essential. We have already been dealing with the appointment of deputies. They will have the rights and privileges and responsibilities of the normal members of the Commission while they are acting as deputies for those members, and it seems to be perfectly reasonable that in considering their responsibilities we should also consider their position in regard to the provisions of clause 16. I think that amendment needs no further explanation because it is perfectly straightforward. 
The reason for the proposal to insert new sub-clause (1.) (a.) is that we feel that in a body such as the Australian Wool Commission we have to be very sure that those allotted the responsible task of handling the whole of the acquisition and marketing of the wool put into their hands are people who will operate in the highest traditions of and with dedication to the industry, but not necessarily people who are tied to any firm or organisation which could give them an unconscious bias that would be against the objective interest of approaching the welfare of the industry as a whole. Therefore, we feel it is quite important to include a sub-clause such as the one we have suggested, which reads: 
If a member or his deputy has direct managerial or policy making responsibility in any wool broking or wool buying firm in Australia or elsewhere the Minister shall by notice published in the Gazette remove the member or his deputy from office. 
In our approach to the Bill that seems reasonable because it would endeavour to keep the operation of the Commission on the highest level possible. If this sub-clause is acceptable it means that part of subclause (2.) becomes redundant. It would also mean that words contained in subclause (2.) would be unnecessary because they would conflict with sub-clause (1.) (a) which we propose to be inserted. Those words are:  . . otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company consisting of not less than 25 persons . . , 
So the third section of our composite amendment would be to omit those words. 
Those are the 3 amendments which I suggest we debate together when dealing with clause 16. I think the reasons 1 have given are now perfectly obvious. I suggest, depending on your interpretation,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  that we vote on them together. If not, we would take them separately. 
I am not prepared to accept the explanation which was given by the Minister with regard to the Opposition's first amendment, but ( do not intend to press it any further. The Opposition will wait and see how the provision operates in actual practice. I am not saying that I do not intend to vote on the amendment; I am simply not going to discuss it any further. T wish to comment on the reply which the Minister gave in regard to the second amendment of the Opposition. Subclause (4.) of clause 7 provides that the 3 other members ofthe Commission would be persons specially qualified for appointment by reason of their experience in the marketing of wool or wool products, in the processing of wool or in the manufacture of wool products, or by reason of other experience in commerce, finance or economics. The Minister has turned down the Opposition's amendment, which I shall repeat because I want to draw particular attention to its terms. It states: 
If a member or his deputy has direct managerial or policy-making responsibility in any wool broking or wool buying firm in Australia or elsewhere, the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member orhis deputy from office. 
There is a tremendous difference between what we have accepted under sub-clause (4.) of clause 7, which I referred to first, and what the Opposition seeks to insert here, which is, as I said earlier, which is to keep this on the basis of an objective approach on the part of the members of the Commission to the highest traditions that one can expect from such a body. I make that point because of the Minister's reply. I think it is important to put my view on record. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Wilkinson's)  be agreed to. 
 Senator Cant  has dealt with all the matters in this clause which I would have criticised. But there is one point which should be made while we are being critical of so many clauses. The Australian 
Labor Party feels that clause 18(1.) (I) is one of the fine points in this legislation. It provides that one of the functions of the Commission is:  to co-operate with authorities and organisations in other countries with respect to measures aimed at the more efficient marketing of wool; 
This paragraph has already been mentioned. We express our appreciation for it, because it gives the Commission the right to carry out negotiations with New Zealand and South Africa. These negotiations can be carried out with the objective, which we have in mind and which is so desirable, of collective selling, in opposition to collective bidding, which we have at the present time. 1 register our appreciation of (hat clause. 
-I ask for leave to move three amendments together. 
 I think the Minister in each case has misunderstood the point that I raised. His argument is quite good if he leaves out his misunderstandings of what I said; but it is those points which 1 believe are important which he has not taken into account. First of all, in regard to the first amendment that I moved 1 did not say that the words should be 'just as frequently as the Commission wants to'. We arc not seeking to change the words 'thinks necessary'. This docs not mean that the price would go on for 1 year or 2 years. The Commission would be concerned very much with what was happening to the world price, what the conditions were and what was happening with regard to consultations with other countries, lt would make alterations as it thought fit in order to get the best possible price. That could be from day to day. But, if the words 'from day to day' are left in. to my mind it makes it mandatory on the Commission to make some variation from day to day. I do not think that was what was envisaged. It is not what the Minister said in his second reading speech. I want to put that point quite clearly. We believe that the words 'as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary' should be left in. That phrase is very important. It covers the whole of the situation that the Minister outlined in his reply. 
In regard to the second amendment, the Minister said that the scheme could not be worked out satisfactorily on the basis of payment within 14 days because of all the other ways in which wool might be sold. A number of wool pools are in operation. I work through a wool pool in respect of my wool. I receive a cheque for 60 per cent of the appraised value of the wool, and I receive it within 14 days. Sometimes I receive it within a shorter period. 1 agree that the period of 16 days applies to contracts; but that is not what we are talking about. We are saying that the grower should receive payment within a fortnight. It has to be remembered that this is the return to the wool grower for 12 months hard and solid work. Yet he is expected to wait for a period which might go on indefinitely, depending on the wishes of the Commission, the Minister and the Treasurer. Ail those people might be involved. We believe that it is important that provision be made for payment within 14 days in order to give some security to the wool grower who has put 12 months of hard work into producing wool that gives hint a very meagre return at the present time on the basis of world prices. 
The third amendment seeks the addition of the words 'at the best possible price'. The Minister said that there might be some very poor types of wool, some very dirty types or some very low grade wool, and that after consideration the Commission might decide that it would be better for that wool to be processed. Of course, the grower will not receive the price paid for the wool when it has been processed. He will receive the value of the wool as it was when it was taken over by the Commission. Why should he not be paid the value of the wool at that time? He will not receive any more for it when it has been processed. If he did, he would be charged the cost of processing. We consider that the woo) should be sold at the best possible price so that the grower is protected, and that the period for which he has to wait to receive the return for his year's labour should be made as short as possible. I wanted to make those points clear. I thought the Minister was rather missing the main points that I was bringing forward in presenting these amendments. 
I also want to deal with clause 20.I am concerned about how the Bill is going to function when it becomes law. Perhaps the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  can explain a point to me. I agree with  Senator Cant  that obviously the majority of the wool which will be handled by the Australian Wool Commission will be that which would have been previously in the hands of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation under the price averaging plan.I say this for a number of reasons. The most important one is that we know now that 80 per cent of wool in Australia is sold before it gets near auction. The balance is largely made up of the1, 2 and 3-bale lots which will come under the price averaging plan. What I am concerned about is the price which is going to be paid. We have just dealt with the amendments which I put forward a few minutes ago in regard to price. I was trying to get some sort of order into the clauses of the Bill and eliminate this day to day basis for determination. If honourable senators look at the booklet which was issued by the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation explaining its price averaging plan - this is the policy laid down for it by the Government - on page 2 of the brochure they will see this paragraph: 
There will be regional variations but, generally, two Price Averaging periods will occur in each wool selling season in each State. 
Yet we now have a clause in the Bill which says that we are going to have the reserve price determined on a day to day basis. What is the Government going to do? What is the explanation of these variations between the price averaging plan which applied previously under the Corporation and the scheme to apply under the Australian Wool Commission? I think the whole thing has been loosely put together. I would like an explanation of that. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1.), leave out 'an approved bank or from another lender", insert 'the Reserve Bank'. 
The reason for moving this amendment is that the general practice, as in the case of the wheat stabilisation scheme, is for the Government to give a guarantee to the Reserve Bank, which finances the whole operation. In similar schemes the Reserve Bank is considered to be the financial body which should make the money available. The Opposition cannot see why this should not be the case with this Bill. The Bill proposes that the money should be borrowed from an approved bank or from another lender. This means that the money could be borrowed front any financial institution, and the Government would be guaranteeing the repayment of the money borrowed and the payment of interest. Why should not the Reserve Bank of Australia be the organisation from which the money is borrowed?It will have to be the guarantor in any case. So why should it not be involved in the financial transactions concerned? 
Apart from the fact that clause 22. if carried, would approve the use of any of the trading banks or any other approved lender, it would guarantee the financial operations of brokers and others involved in the selling of the wool. I would like to sec same kind of guarantee given to the wool growers so that they know that they will get a guaranteed figure. The Bill does not include a guaranteed covering the cost of production.I emphasise that in the best interests of the economy, the Reserve Bank should he instructed to cover the sum of $ 1 1 5m that will be involved in establishing the scheme as well as the$18.7m annual operating cost of the Commission. It seems to me to be a perfectly reasonable proposition.I hope that honourable senators will accept the proposition for the deletion of the words 'an approved bank or from another lender' and the insertion in lieu thereof of the words 'the Reserve Bank'. 
 My question relates to Division 103, subdivision 2, Item 05  -  Office requisites, equipment and stationery. The amount of this item has increased by 3 times this year. 1 have had a look through the Hansard report of the Estimates Committee, as all careful senators would do, and no question was asked at the time about the reason for this. Would the increase possibly be due to the tape recorders, a lot of which have been bought in the last year? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (10.52)  -  This is a new item in 1970-71 designed to make provision for office requisites and equipment formerly included in the item covering incidental and other expenditure. The production of a daily Hansard report of proceedings of standing committees recently established, to consider legislation can only be handled by recording the proceedings of some committees and employing typists to make transcripts from the tape recordings, there being insufficient staff to report and transcribe in the normal manner. It is proposed therefore to purchase additional tape recorders and typewriters and provision is made accordingly. The provision under this item also covers the supply of specialised stationery for the production of transcripts of committee evidence in addition to supplies of normal reporting and transcription stationery. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Prime Minister's Department 
Proposed expenditure 345,773,000. 
 My question is quite a short one and I do not think the Minister will have much trouble with it. 1 really intended to ask this question when we were dealing with matters concerning Estimates Committee A, but it comes up again under the estimates for the Department of Works. I refer to Division 582, subdivision 1 item 03  -  Department of the Cabinet Office. The amount of the vote for works this year is $300. The Department spends about $250,000 a year and the works cost last year was in the region of S36.000 to $37,000. This year it is only $300. I am wondering why there has been this sudden change. Are they starting to close down the Cabinet Office. Have they got all they want? Why is it only $300? Can the Minister give me an answer? 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Willesee.  The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  will no doubt recall that 1 have raised some questions with regard to safety measures to be adopted in the nuclear power station proposed to be erected at Jervis Bay. in the replies I received it was fairly obvious that the Government thought I was concerned about the safety of personnel and the operating procedure followed at a nuclear power station of the very modern type proposed to be installed. Although it may be only a thermal reactor type, it would be a very advanced thermal reactor. But I was not concerned about that at all. Why I am in agreement with the proposal that a select committee should be set up is because 1 am concerned about what is to happen to the waste produced by a reactor of that type. 
I have made inquiries of reliable sources and have been informed that the radioactive element used in the processes applied in a thermal reactor produces a very radioactive product that has to be disposed of in some way. I understand that in respect of the Jervis Bay station it is proposed to deposit this radioactive waste in some of the salt mine areas in Australia where it would have no possibility of contaminating anything. Where there is salt there obviously is no evidence of water contamination because it would have washed the salt away. The present method is a safe method of dealing with it for the time being until we get to the more advanced type of reactor and get away from the thermal type. We will be able to do that in a few years, probably before 1990. 
The other matter about which I am concerned is the reply I received with regard to cooling water. Fresh water will be used for cooling purposes. The Minister has said, that it will be taken some distance out to set where it will be dissipated by the movement of currents and tides so that it will not cause any trouble, and that in any case the security measures adopted in the plant will ensure that there will not be any contamination. This is not the opinion of very many responsible people and scientists who are deeply involved in processes of this kind. It is almost impossible to prevent contamination during some processes. It is almost impossible to prevent some contamination from the cooling process. There is always the possibility of contamination when changing the reactive material in the tubes from time to time, no matter how carefully that is done. In overseas countries where this and similar kinds of reactors are in operation and where this method of cooling is adopted, the first thing that is noticed when the cooling water is disposed of in the sea is that the radioactive material has an attraction for one form of marine life, namely, oysters. Apparently oysters have an affinity for radioactive material, and the waste has been found concentrated in them. Because of my concern about this matter, I learned from some of the sources that I contacted that there could be contamination of oysters for a radius of 50 miles from the point where the effluent is discharged into the sea off Jervis Bay. This would mean that some of our best oyster beds would be a possible source of dangerto human beings. 
For those reasons 1 feel that this proposal needs further investigation. I know according to the replies that I have received, that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  believes that there is no danger but that belief is not supported by other responsible people who are experts in the field. Without saying which view is correct, I believe that where there is a doubt there is room for investigation. It is on that basis that I support  Senator Willesee's  request. 
 1 want to add a few words to what has been said regarding this amendment from the viewpoint of Western Australia. In my State, we have been fortunate, to a point, in the amount of financial assistance that has been provided by the State Government and by the Federal Government and also by the very thoughtful approaches which have been adopted to overcome the problems facing Aboriginals in Western Australia. I give credit to the present Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  who does not happen to be of the same political persuasion as myself but who is recognised to be doing a very worthwhile job within the limits of the powers that he has. The Commonwealth also has been very generous in making finance available for Aboriginal welfare. The Aboriginal Welfare Council as it is known in Western Australia, has been very grateful for this assistance. But the problem in Western Australia is that the assistance that is given from time to time comes without planning; it comes without those concerned expecting it. The other day an amount of 75,000 was made available by the Commonwealth - I think from memory that was the amount - but it came out of the blue. It is not known when another amount of this nature will be provided. There is no planning. A lot more could be done if there was a reason.ble understanding given of the assistance that was to be provided and if the type of programme that could be entered into was known. 
I think it was for assistance in setting up a community centre. It was very gratefully received but it really did come out of the blue. It was not anticipated at all. The Aboriginals themselves are taking a very keen interest in their welfare. At one time the Aboriginal Welfare Council was composed almost entirely of white Australians but it is now composed almost entirely of Aboriginals^ - and they are doing a very good job. 
The Aboriginal centre in Perth is being run entirely by the Aboriginals themselves. This centre is performing a very worthwhile function. Considerable assistance was received from the State Government in order to set it up. I have emphasised the point that I feel that this amendment which asks for a planned programme so that we can advance along a more reasonable line in doing something for the development of the Aboriginals should be accepted. The other point 1 want to raise is the question of discriminatory Acts and regulations throughout Australia. There is such legislation in Western Australia. For some reason or other there appears to be difficulty in removing these Acts from the statute book, but I think-- 
I cannot cite them because I did not anticipate speaking in this debate, but there are a number of defects in the system which could be removed. For instance, neither  Senator Gair  nor I can walk on to a native reserve. We are just not allowed to go there unless we have permission from the Minister. 
This could be a discriminatory Act and it could work out that it is not to the benefit of the Aboriginals. I am only citing one point. There are others, but this is the first one that came to my mind. 
 It is there as a protective measure but the Act does not have to be applied so that there is this complete opposition to anyone visiting a reserve. I was not introducing this point,  Mr Acting Deputy  President; this was raised by  Senator Gair.  I am not pressing it. What I am saying is that there are some areas which 1 feel should be looked at. This amendment asks the Commonwealth to request the States to have a look at this situation and see if something can be done. I think that this would be a very worthwhile objective. We are progressing a long way in our attitude to Aboriginals in really absorbing them as part of our community. I think we can go even further and faster without it costing very much more but with a lot more of the attitude of understanding these people and so assimilating them. I have very much pleasure in supporting this amendment. 
-I would likeclarification on a matter which I raise every year when speaking to the estimates of the Postmaster-General's Department I refer to the single line entry item 01 which is contained in Division 870 - Capital Works and Services. This single line entry has appeared in the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) ever since the Post Office Trust Account was established. Under this item we are to provide $240m to the Post Office. 1 have been trying to find out what this amount will be used for. I notice that when Estimates Committee B discussed the accounts of the Postmaster-General's Department no mention was made of the use to which this money would be put. We do not know how the money will be used in the field of capital works and services. I have had a look at the Post Office prospects and capital programme for 1970-71 and I ask the Minister whether what I am about to say is the explanation of this amount. On page 9 of the pamphlet dealing with prospects and capital programme the estimated capital investment for 1969-70 and plant for 1970-71 is shown. This pamphlet states that the cost of telecommunication plant, which is of course the major item, is anticipated to be $328m. The pamphlet also indicates the allocation for other engineering and movable plant and so on, which makes up the balance. The total is $404m. 
If we go to the source of funds we find that the Postmaster-General proposes to borrow $240m. I take it that this is the $240m we are talking about. This leaves $164m to be available from the resources mf the Post Office which are made up from ordinary day to day incomings and outgoings. I think I am right up to this point because I have seen a few heads nodding. Apparently I am not too far out. The next question is: What will be done with this $404m? On pages 11, 12 and 13, in statements C and D, of the pamphlet dealing with prospects the programme of capital investment is set out A list is given of capital to be allocated for telecommunication installations, broad band bearer systems, and so on, throughout Australia. Although the expenditure has not been totalled, I gather that it amounts to the $404m that we are talking about. Is this the explanation of how the money referred to in the Post Office accounts is to be used? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (11.15) - The first part of the honourable senator's comment was quite correct He was right In suggesting that up to that point of time the answer was 'yes'. I have a little further information which I can give him. The total overall expenditure is $ 1,000m and the estimated receipts $760m. The statement is only indicative of projects over $500,000. 
This is not quite the information I was after because in referring to $ 1,000m the Minister is including the amounts that come under documents A and B, that is, in Appropriation Bill No. 1 and Appropriation Bill No. 2. AH I can ask the Minister is what comes under this amount of $240m in Appropriation Bill No. 2? The only items that I could find to indicate what the amount of $404m is to be spent on are those indicated in the document 'Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme' for 1970-71. Perhaps the Minister can give me a fuller explanation on this point because we are dealing with a large amount of money and I do not like to see the sum of S404m going through without some query. It was not queried in Estimates Committee B. This is one of the drawbacks that we found with our Estimates Committees in their introduction. I very much wanted to get to this Committee but I was involved in another committee to which I paid particular attention as it was dealing with primary industry. Consequently I could not get to Estimates Committee B when this matter was discussed. As the Minister knows, I tried to get there but when I arrived consideration of this matter had been completed. If the Minister could give me this information I would be grateful. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (11.18) - I appreciate the point that the honourable senator has made and I am aware that he endeavoured to get information when the Estimates Committee was sitting but was involved with another Committee. I am seeking further information concerning the matter he has raised. I would again say that the honourable senator's reference in the first part of his question was correct and we are now seeking further detailed information which I think might be helpful. I have known over a period of time that the honourable senator has always been interested in this item and has been anxious to have these details provided a little more fully. I know this is very important and if I have not got all the information he wants I shall be only too pleased to get further information for him. The amount of $240m represents the amount that the Post Office cannot fund from its own resources. The setting up of the Post Office Trust Account required that the Postmaster-General's Department issue a White Paper and an annual report This is all the further information that has been made available to me this morning. I think there may be more information the honourable senator would wish to have and I will ask the departmental officers whether this can be given to him at an early date. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
When this Bill was introduced by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who represents the Treasurer it was felt that we needed to hurry through our business and the Minister asked for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard on the grounds that a considerable quantity of that speech consisted of figures. At that time we did not have the speech in our hands. After the speech was made available it was found that the speech contained only one long table and one short table. Had the Bill been supported by a reading of the second reading speech it would have been of considerable value. 
A great many people throughout the world and a large number of similar bodies in Australia, particularly those connected with the World Council of Churches and the Catholic Eucumenical Commission on Peace and Justice, believe that one of the principal methods of improving the living standards of people is through trade. They believe that trade between countries enhances their development and leads to an increase in productivity. Such an increase means that a country can participate to a greater extent in trade and this has a snowballing effect. When one looks at the principle behind the establishment of the Asian Development Bank one can see that this is a measure which can be of considerable value in helping to promote such a situation. 
The Asian Development Bank commenced its operations in 1966, at Manila. There are now 35 member countries. Of this number,I think 21 are in the Asian area and 14 outside that area. The capital proposed for the Bank is $ 1, 004m, of which 50 per cent has already been subscribed. At present it is not proposed to call up more capital and this is the reason why the level of capital is remaining at $502m. Australia's contribution is $85m of which 50 per cent has been subscribed. This amount was subscribed as recently as August of this year. The purpose of the Bill isto assist with a special fund contribution. The capital of the Bank is used generally as a guarantee for borrowings which are made to enable work to be carried out in various Asian countries. Some of the capital has been made available directly to the countries concerned, but in the main it is used as security. 
Special purpose funds have been requested so that other work may be carried on. Australia has decided that it will grant$US10m to these funds over a period of 3 years. I regret that Australia has not decided to make a greater con tribution. I believe that we could contribute more towards these special funds than an amount which will be in the region of only $US3m a year over this year and the two following years. Of this$US10m some $US9.75m will be allocated to the multi-purposes special fund and the balance of$US250,000 will be allocated to the technical assistance special fund.I think, and the Opposition agrees, that Australia is supporting a very worthwhile project. As I said a moment ago, we regret that the amount which is to be contributed is not greater than it is. But even so we welcome this contribution. We support (he assistance that has been given by way of contribution to the special funds.I hope that perhaps the Government might consider, if it still is the Government when the next Budget is introduced- 
It is possible But I hope that the Government will consider increasing its contribution and give the Asian area greater assistance, as other countries are doing. 1 might mention that with a contribution of $85m, Australia is the third highest contributor to the fund. I think that this is a very good position to be in. With these few remarks, the Opposition supports the measure. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Treasurer, upon notice:  (1)Is it a  fact  that the National Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co. and  some other assurance companiesare circularising policy holders who have  been  granted loans on their policies informing them that the interest rate will  be  increased  to81/4  per cent. 
As the loan agreement does  not  permit such an increase, are policy holders being asked to enter into a new agreement in which variations of interest rate will  be  permitted, and,  if  they refuse, is an immediate repayment ofthe loan demanded;  if  so, is there any action that the Government can lake  to  protect the interest  of  such policy holders. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I understand that at the time the honourable senator raised this matter, The National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Limited was circulating policy holders who had been granted loans on their policies informing them that it was proposed to increase the interest rate on all policy loans to81/4 per cent. 
I understand that the form  of  loan agreement used by the National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Limited prior to 1 October 1970 did not provide for variation in the interest rate but did not provide that the loan was repayable on demand. The Association wished to increase the interest rates on all policy loans to the rate charged on new loans and offered existing borrowers the alternative courses of agreeing to pay interest at the rate fixed from time to time by the Association for policy loans or of repaying their loans. This is a matter between the Association and the borrowers concerned. I also understand that the form of loan agreement used by the Association since 1 October 1970  follows  the practice of most life companies in that it includes a condition permitting a variation in  the  rate  of  interest charged, subject to a suitable period  of  notice. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the $10Om assistance being provided over 4 years for rural reconstruction, ls the amount proposed for Western Australia approximately $15m? How much is to be made available to Western Australia this year? What proportion will be loaned at 7 per cent, and what proportion is a gift? 
I was very interested in the way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  approached the question of the Australian economy by making such a short and concise statement to the House of Representatives on Tuesday evening. I want to commence my remarks by referring to his opening words. He said: 
I recently spoke to the nation on the state  of  the economy and on the likely inflationary effects of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's award of a 6 per cent increase in wages and salaries. 
It seemed to me that the Prime Minister approached this situation on the basis of concern at what was going to happen to the economy and not the present position of the economy. He quite unequivocally stated that he felt the inflationary situation existed because of the Commission's determination. When we go further into the statement we find that the Prime Minister, having accepted that point of view, decides that the way to cure the situation flows from that premise. Therefore we find that he is going to endeavour to set an example to industry generally by applying reductions in expenditure on all Commonwealth departments. I think that this is the fallacy in the approach by the Prime Minister to the situation. I am not saying that there is not an inflationary situation existing at the present time. I would be foolish to do so. What I am concerned about is that the indicator of an inflationary situation has been stated by the Prime Minister to be the Commission's decision. 
There are a number of indicators which show us whether the economy is in an inflationary condition. I think that the decision by the Commission is one of the minor indicators. I say that advisedly because the decision was based on facts presented to the Commission and they could not have been available later than last October, just prior to its determination. That determination was based on the cost of living index and the ability of industry to pay. It had nothing to do with a situation which might arise later. I consider that the Prime Minister used the wrong premise as the base for his statement. 
What are the indicators to be used in determining the position of the economy? In the simplest terms - this appeals to me because I am no economist - if there is more money in existence than there are goods to buy, we have an inflationary situation. The proof that this is occurring is found by observing the rate of increase in the prices of ordinary commodities. When the rate increases more than normally it is an indication of an inflationary situation. This has occurred at the present time. We have this and I am not saying that there is not an inflationary situation. Another indicator of inflation is when prices are rising faster than productivity, which means that fewer goods are available to meet the rising demand. Another very reliable indicator is when a number of vacant positions are being advertised in the Press and there are insufficient people to fill these positions. In other words there is an over employment problem. The Prime Minister did not mention any of these indicators. Another indicator which is not generally appreciated but which is very valid and important is when the money available for speculation is greater than normal. 
Money and credit, yes; credit in particular. I thank  Senator Little  for correcting me. I did not mean to leave it out. This is very important. I am now entering into the sphere of fringe banking. Credit is being made available by finance houses which are not part of the banking system but which are able to make money available at high rates of interest. This is another very important indicator that is not generally noticed. 
I am interested in what the Government proposes to do. The present proposal to reduce spending by some $75.5m is, in my opinion a very poor approach to the problem. I do not think that it is an approach which will result in considerable success. I am reminded of the depression years when the government of the day - it was not a Labor government - was trying to meet a situation which had many elements similar to the present one. It was not an inflationary situation, but the government was not sure what it ought to be doing. I can remember quite clearly seeing on the Commonwealth Bank of Australia's building in Forrest Place, Perth, in the late 1930s a notice which read: 'Spend more'. The next week, after the Government had had a few more thoughts about the matter and had decided that this was the wrong sort of approach, the sign on this building was changed to read: 'Spend less', which was just the opposite advice. The following week the government had another re-think about the matter and a. big banner was emblazoned across this building with the words 'Spend wisely'. So there was a change of front over 3 weeks in which the government's policy went from spend more to spend less and then to spend wisely. I have no doubt that all these slogans would have had some advocates, but- the only one that appealed to me was the one advocating wise spending, which is what I endeavoured to do with the small amount I had at that time. But this is the sort of thing I am concerned about. I am concerned about whether the Prime Minister is approaching the present inflationary situation in the correct way. 
What aggravates the situation when there are- inflationary tendencies? I said earlier that one phase of inflation is that there is more money in the hands of the public and there are fewer goods to buy. There are a number of ways in which money can come into the hands of the public without being offset by a corresponding increase in the. production of goods. Capital works programmes is one way. With the construction of railways, rebuilding programmes and so  on  we get a lot of money coming into the community from things which the community cannot buy. The community cannot buy the large multi-storeyed buildings which are being erected at a tremendous cost in all the capital cities of Australia. Money is being poured into the pockets of the people from these construction programmes without an equal quantity of goods being produced for them to purchase. This creates an inflationary situation. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  mentioned a few moments ago in his contribution to the debate the inflow of foreign capital. I consider that an excessive inflow of foreign capital is one of the things which help to bring about an inflationary situation. I am not advocating that we should cut out the inflow of all foreign capital into Australia as I think this capital is necessary in many instances, but I am concerned about the fact that in the present inflationary situation no brakes or controls are being applied on the inflow of foreign capital. By Way of a news release this morning the Reserve Bank of Australia issued figures showing that Australia's international reserves increased in 
January by almost $108m to $l,619m. The finance correspondent of the Australian Broadcasting Commission said that this indicated that the not apparent inflow of foreign capital into Australia during January was $121m. This matter was referred to by the Minister for Civil Aviation. The finance correspondent said that capital inflow had previously been running at a rate of around $100m a month for H years. In other words the normal rate of capital inflow into Australia increased in one month by $21m. 
It is not my job to provide the reason for it. All I am saying is that there is no control of the overseas capital which is coming into Australia at a time when we. are facing an inflationary situation of which the Government is aware. Continuation of the rate of inflow for January - $21m more than normal - would mean that there will be a total tff $240m or $250m this year. I know that all df this money will not be going into capital works. 1 know that a lot of it will be in the form of equipment that comes into Australia. But some of it - quite a considerable proportion - will go into capital works. The $75. 5m which the Government will have saved by its reductions will be swamped by the extra amount which comes into Australia this year in this small sector of the financial economy. 
I believe that this is one of the angles that the Government should be looking ar. Another one is the operations of fringe banking organisations, which was mentioned a moment ago by way of interjection by  Senator Little.  This is something which also should be very closely watched. Industry is able to obtain money in this way for developmental purposes but there will not be any returns on the capital in the way of goods produced for purchase. I think that the only way we can remedy a lot of the present problems is by some adjustment of the tariff. This is important. I am not saying that we should engage in free trade and I am not saying that we should be fully protectionist; I am saying that there should be some adjustment on the tariff so that we are able to control production in this country and the number of people who are in employment. Tha 
I have been very interested in the wide range over which  Senator 
Greenwood has wandered. It is surprising what he has been able to bring into the debate on this motion, which he read  a  couple of times and which I will read again. Incidentally, I am surprised that noone has noticed that there is a mistake in the printing. The motion should read: 
That the Senate considers that the Government has shown a contemptuous disregard for Parliament in regard to its partial lifting of the ban-  not 'its lifting the partial ban' -   on the export of merino rams. 
In that motion there is not one word about any question, debate, consideration or decision with regard to the action that was taken by the trade union movement. This is something quite different. I have drawn the attention of the Senate to the fact that we are considering the attitude of the Government to a decision that was reached by this section of the Parliament. 
I did not propose to make a considerable contribution to this debate, and 1 still do not propose to do so. But I was involved in the previous debate in which we discussed the merits of whether there should be a partial lifting of the ban or whether it should remain as a total ban. I remind the Senate that on the previous occasion in April 1969 the motion was debated quite fully; it was not talked out. The motion was moved pursuant to notice on 22nd April. The debate continued until the end of that sitting when, under the relevant sessional order, the Senate adjourned. The debate was continued on 29th April until it reached a conclusion and a vote was taken. The motion was not talked out. A decision was reached without any limitation of debate at all. The motion then was: 
That the Senate is of opinion that the embargo on the export of merinos should not be removed at this time and that the embargo should remain in force until a majority of those persons affected shall' decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing me embargo. 
The Senate approved that motion. At the end of a full debate, the Senate voted in favour of it, although admittedly by only one vote. Although this matter was not debated in the House of Representatives and was not decided by the Parliament but was decided by the Minister for Primary Industry and a Cabinet decision, I believe that it is reasonable to assume that the Government was aware of the opinion expressed by this chamber. 
The opinion expressed by this chamber is of value because it is the only opinion that has been expressed by the elected representatives. We consider that the Government's decision is a contemptuous disregard of the decision of this chamber. 1 thought this debate would have been designed to establish whether it was or was not. I thought that was what  Senator Greenwood  would do in his contribution to the debate. But he got well away from the question. He is certainly entitled to his opinions, and he has spoken of them before. We on this side of the chamber are entitled to our opinions, and we have expressed them and have been successful. That is the important point. 
I had not intended to go back into the history of this matter. I do not propose to go into it extensively. But I want to correct a couple of points that have been made. One of them was made very early in the debate by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  representing the Minister for ' Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He told us of the early history of the imposition of the ban. 1 will not go back to 1929 because that has been done. I will quote from a Press statement that was issued by no less a person than the former Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony,  on 20th February 1970. It is an extract from an address that he gave to a meeting of a branch of the Young Australian Country Party. He said: 
Let's look at the history of this whole matter without even discussing the rights or the wrongs of doing it. 
That is fair enough. I think that is the approach that should be made. He continued: 
Let's look at the history of where we got to and where we are today. 
This is important, and it is unfortunate that  Senator Drake-Brockman  is not in the chamber now,' because he made a statement which I am endeavouring to correct by reference - to a speech made by the former Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister said: 
During the twenties merinos were freely exported, especially to South Africa, but the numbers were not large. However, an election promise by Labor in 1929 lo stop these exports caused some panic buying. 
That would be understandable. He went on to say: 
And in 1929 wool prices slumped. There was quite an emotional reaction amongst the people. A Labor government had just come into  office  and people were saying that if we prevented the export of merinos we would have a monopoly of fine wools around the world and be able to demand our own price for them. 
The conclusion to which the Minister came at that point was: 
Now, that argument could have had logic in those days because (here was no real competitor to fine merino wool. 
I am not arguing about that. The point is that the embargo was imposed following a tremendous upsurge of feeling in the wool industry, and it was a promise that was made by the Labor Party. This was not a decision that was reached overnight and imposed on the industry: this was something that the Labor Parly had promised to do. That is an important point. The Labor Party was only carrying out the mandate it had been given. 
I want lo remind the Senate of a few of the points which have been made in previous debates and which are directly concerned wilh this matter. One point that has been mentioned again and again by speakers from the Government side tonight is that this action is the result of a decision of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. They have been honest enough to admit that the matter was referred back to the AWIC by the then Minister for Primary Industry for further consideration and that after 9 months, when asked for a decision, the Conference had the effrontery to say: 'We do not consider that we ought to revise our decision or take any further evidence'. It was also contemptuous for the Wool Industry Conference, which considers itself to be the industry's spokesman, to say 'We do not propose to take any further action or to carry out any further investigation', in view of the fact that a decision had been reached here following a tremendous outcry from farmers all over Australia. The point about the Wool Industry Conference refusing to reconsider its decision was also mentioned in the Minister's Press statement. 
I should like to direct attention to one point which has never been mentioned to date in any debate on this matter. In doing so I indicate to the Senate that  f  am criticising the Wool Industry Conference because I do not consider that it represents the industry. The way in which the original motion on the question whether the Conference should agree to a relaxation of the ban was put has never been mentioned. In a letter to "The Countryman', a newspaper in Western Australia,  Mr R.  D. Logan of Richmond, north Queensland, makes this point: 
Many votes in support of lifting the embargo were given because the resolution contained words similar to the following - 'providing the Federal Government uses the embargo removal as a bargaining point to obtain benefits for Australian wool in overseas countries'.  lt will be seen that the Wool Industry Conference was itself concerned about the relaxation of the ban. If the ban was relaxed, that was to be used as a bargaining lever to increase sales of and to gain better prices for the Australian wool clip. Nothing has been heard of any efforts which were made in that direction. Nothing has been disclosed at any time about any attempts to gain advantages for the Australian wool clip along those lines. 
I had selected for correction a number of other statements which have been made but I do not think that we will get any further with this debate by re-hashing the arguments that have been put on previous occasions. Already on 1 occasion the Senate has voted to oppose the lifting of the ban, and on another occasion when only members of the Opposition and members of the Democratic Labor Party had participated in the debate and had spoken in support of the ban, the matter was not taken to a vote but the indications were that if it had been the members of the Democratic Labor Parly would have voted with the Australian Labor Party and we would have had a sufficient number of votes to establish our view. I believe that the Senate has been treated contemptuously in that an opinion reached by it democratically and after full debate, namely, that a referendum be taken of those involved in the industry to learn their wishes, has been ignored by the Government. I join with my colleagues in the Australian Labor Party and, f gather, wilh members of the Democratic Labor Party, in supporting the motion before the Chair. 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Under the National Service Act 1951-1968, how many young men, to date - 
have been inducted into the Army and have finished or are finishing their 2 years of national service; 
have been registered by a court as conscientious objectors and granted total deferment; 
have been granted exemption from combat duties; 
have applied for exemption as conscientious objectors and are awaiting court proceedings; and 
have openly not complied with the Act and/or informed the Minister of their intention not to comply with any further requirements of the Act. 
Of those listed in (e) above, how many have been prosecuted by the Department and against how many others have legal proceedings been commenced. 
My question which is addressed to the Leader of the Government is further to the question asked earlier by  Senator McManus  regarding assistance for farmers who are forced to leave their farms. Will the Government give urgent serious consideration to examining and then instituting a policy of reverse income tax to enable many of these farmers to stay on their farms while being retrained or disposing of their properties? 
The previous question was addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, but this question relates to reverse income tax. I recall well that the honourable senator raised this matter either during the debate on the Estimates or by way of question and I promised to have the matter referred to the Treasury for comment. I believe that was done, but I do not have an answer back from the Treasury. This is a question in which I must confess I was interested personally. 1 shall follow up the original question and today's question and see whether 1 can get a comment from the Treasury on the matter. 
The Bills of Exchange Bill has been introduced because of the change in business operations of banks. The principal Act. which is dated 1909. provided the necessary measures for controlling bills of exchange - the main method of conducting business at that time - and a number of other ancillary matters. Over the years, with developments in banking techniques, the emphasis has changed from bills of exchange to cheques, as was pointed out by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in his second reading speech. In 1965  Mr Justice  Manning, who chaired a committee which inquired into the act. brought down a report which, if implemented at that stage, would have required further amendment of the Act because of the very rapid changes that were taking place in banking operations at that time.I refer particularly to the introduction of computers into banking operations. By the use of computers it was possible to keep track of accounts and cheque operations in a way which was not possible before. From the report of  Mr Justice  Manning and from the developments that have taken place, it is obvious that the Act should be amended because most business operations of banks are conducted by cheque now. 
I am a little concerned that only one section of the Act is sought to be amended at this time. I believe that the Bill could have been held over a little longer in order to bring up to date all sections of the Act. Clause 3 of the Bill divides the Act into 5 parts, comprising 101 sections. The main intention of the Bill is to do away with the necessity for endorsements on cheques in certain circumstances. The Bill does not apply to endorsements or to the necessity for indorsement in all cases. Bankers will be relieved of the necessity for insisting on endorsements in certain cases only. Although the Bill sets out to protect banking operations conducted under the new sections 88b to 88e inclusive, I am a little concerned about the rights of persons conducting business with banks; they should have been protected more adequately. I have spoken to some bankers about this matter. The alteration will effect considerable savings in the operations of banks. As far as I can see and as far as the Opposition has been able to determine, the alteration will not affect the rights of persons who have accounts with banks. 
The Opposition does not propose to oppose the Bill. We think that it would have been desirable for the Bill to have been held over a little longer and for a comprehensive change of the Act, based on  Mr Justice  Manning's report, to have been made. But, as this Bill has now come forward and will produce many economies and savings of time and manpower in the banks, we consider that, of itself and on its own merits, it is a desirable innovation. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
This Bill will not take very much time at all. But I wish to make a few comments on it. Never before have we had a situation such as this, in which the first part of an Income Tax Assessment Bill has been passed by the Lower House and then, before it is passed by the Upper House, there is a change of Prime Minister and possibly a change of policy with regard to inflation. No statement has been made by the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  as to whether he accepts what was put forward by the former Prime Minister in this Bill. 
It is rather interesting to note that the amendment which was made to the Principal Act in 1962 and brought up to date in 1970 was for the purpose of stimulating production in both manufacturing and primary industry. At the present time we are finding that there is more money in the economy than there was intended to be. Apparently consideration was given to this situation by the previous Prime Minister. But I am not sure that the present Prime Minister has agreed to accept the previous Prime Minister's statement on this matter. The previous Prime Minister, through his Treasurer, decided to remove the 20 per cent depreciation allowance that applies to all plant for industry, but not to remove it from plant that is purchased for primary production. That means that, although we are producing more than we need - the position on the world's markets indicates that - we will still allow primary producers, whether they are living on their farms or are absentee landloards, to avail themselves of the additional 20 per cent depreciation allowance. 
This was all right when we were trying to encourage production. But is it all right to leave this in existence in the case of primary producers now and to encourage further production of primary products? This is what gives us some cause for concern. We have heard nothing at all from the present Prime Minister with regard to this Bill, which was brought down by the previous Cabinet. Maybe the Treasurer of that time is still the Treasurer. At the moment he is. But whether he will be the Treasurer next week I would not know, and whether this will be the policy of the Treasurer next week I would not know. This Income Tax Assessment Bill has been introduced between the falling of one Prime Minister and the raising of another. However, the Opposition has no wish to oppose the Bill. I make these few comments, but the Opposition accedes to the passage of the Bill. 
 I am not really satisfied with what the Minister has said. I. am disturbed that the provision covers the operations of packers and individual growers. I think the Minister said that about 15 per cent of growers do not supply through packing houses. 
I would still be disturbed if the number was only 1 per cent. We are trying to look at this from the viewpoint of everybody. An individual grower who is providing fruit to a packing house will be covered because there will be a record of everything entering the packing house. We are concerned about the individual grower who does not dispose of his fruit through a packing house. He will not have any record. In his case there may be an averment and that is what disturbs us. Someone will make an estimate which will become evidence. It will be extremely difficult for the grower to prove or disprove an averment that is made. We want to cover that point, even if only 1 per cent of growers are affected. 
The disturbing feature is that there is no guarantee that such evidence can be refuted by a grower or upheld by the Government. Proof is difficult on that basis. I do not believe that the provision is necessary. In the case of a packing house there is a signed document in respect of goods brought into it. There is no need for a statement or averment to be made by an officer. An inspection of the books is sufficient to discover what a particular grower has supplied. We envisage that the provision will apply only in the difficul* situation of a grower who is not supplying a packing house. I would be pleased to have the Minister cover that point. 
 I cannot let the matter end there. In good faith a grower may say: 'I have provided so much dried fruit.' An inspector could say: 'We have been watching your place and we think you have a lot more fruit than you have given us information about. I aver that 10 per cent more fruit came from your place than you have given me information about.' That is evidence, and that is what concerns me. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Milliner's amendment)  be left out. 
I am not sure whether my question should be directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral or the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. It is a borderline case. I understand that 43,000 young men have failed to register under the provisions of the National Service Act. Of these, 23,000 have been classed as having committed no offence, 8,000 have been excused, 7,800 have been under investigation for more than 3 months, 2,800 have been under investigation for less than 3 months, 1,113 have been prosecuted and 6 have been sentenced to gaol for 2 years. In view of this massive opposition to the National Service Act can  the Government justify sending 6 men - Zarb. Reinsenlelter, Bed do w. Ross, Martin and Mullen to gaol for 2 years? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. On 7th April I asked the Minister a question relating to national service and was assured by him that he would be giving an answer to a question on notice asked by  Senator O'Byrne  which would encompass my question. One aspect of my question was unanswered. I now ask the Minister why 6 men have been sentenced to 2 years gaol out of the 10,600 who I understand have been under investigation for a considerable time as allegedly contravening the National Service Act. 
I want to add only one point to the discussion that we have listened to attentively this evening. I have listened very patiently to the reading of a statement which is alleged to be President Eisenhower's speech. 
It was alleged to have been President Eisenhower's speech. I gathered that about 85 per cent of it, from my estimate of the way in which it was read, was entirely irrelevant to what we are discussing tonight. 

 - Senator Rae may be interested to know that we have had brought before us tonight 2 reporters' documents. One of them appeared in the New York Times' and was a report, of what was alleged to have been said by  President  Eisenhower. The other was also a reputable reporter's report of what was understood to have been said by  President  Eisenhower. 
The difference between the two, even allowing for the omission of the words which do not matter in the context at which we are looking, is infinitesimal.  Senator Rae,  in his reading of the speech, pointed out the trade that we wanted with this area, which was tungsten, tin and so on. It is easy to imagine that when  President  Eisenhower was talking about South East Asia a reporter could easily put down Indonesia instead of IndoChina. 
I am saying that this is an alleged statement. It is not the actual document from which  President  Eisenhower read. It is not the authorised document that he approved. This is only what appeared in a newspaper. I do not care whether it is the best newspaper in the world. Plenty of articles appear in the Australian Press which report statements made by people, even senators, and are not what was said. There are plenty of instances like that where the subject matter is confused and presented wrongly and the emphasis is put the wrong way. I emphasise that we have 2 statements. I think that the Senate has every reason to accept the one that  Senator Keeffe  has given. It was the first put forward. I can see no difference in the second, even allowing for the 4 dots because it only refers to Indonesia instead of Indo-China. 
 Senator Sim  is not aware that tungsten is not found in Indonesia. Tungsten is found only in the area of Indo-China about which we are speaking. That is why the  President  was referring to this area. 
If  Senator Rae  wishes to bring something of value to the Senate, I suggest that he get the speech of  President  Eisenhower and have that incor porated in Hansard. In that way we would get the actual words that were said at the time. These are points which should be remembered. 
I have suggested that you do that. I think the Senate would agree with the statement that  Senator Keeffe  put forward. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.5 a.m. Thursday 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In a statement made recently by the Treasurer on foreign aid it appeared that Australia bad at last exceeded 1 per cent of the gross national product. Did this include the private investment of Australians in other countries? Without this private investment would the Government's aid to overseas countries not exceed 0.59 per cent of the gross national product? Does our aid to Papua and New Guinea account for about 80 per cent of this amount? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs I recall the statement, the figure quoted was 1.1 per cent. I would need to obtain some information from the Treasury as to the break up of the amount. For instance I am aware that aid to Papua and New Guinea is quite a significant contribution but I shall have to obtain a precise breakup and make it available to the Senate. 
 I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  whether at a later stage he will be able to give us a report on what is finally proposed to be done in this area  to  prevent another happening of this nature? 

 Senator COTTON (New South WalesMinister for Civil Aviation) - by leave - Yes. I think all of us regard this matter seriously. All of us are concerned about it. We come to Canberra to do a certain job and then we will go away at a certain time. We like to feel that we have achieved something constructive while we have been here which will be of benefit in the future. This is such a case. The Minister believes this and so do the officers of the departments concerned. I will direct your inquiry to them and tell them that we would appreciate receiving, in due course, some progress reports on. how their work is progressing to improvethe situation. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I rise to take advantage of the fact that we are debating the first reading of this Bill to bring forward another matter with which I will deal only briefly. I was inspired to do so by a report which appeared in last night's 'Herald'. It concerned the wool industry, and it referred to a statement made in England by  Sir William  Gunn. I refer firstly to a report of a meeting held in Perth on 3rd and 4th April last year at which  Sir William  Gunn was one of the distinguished persons present. I shall refer to that portion of his address which dealt with the wool industry and which has relevance to the report which appeared in last night's newspaper and in today's 'West Australian'.  Sir William  Gunn, speaking to the assembly of farmers and those interested in primary production, about the future of wool and about the International Wool Secretariat, said: 
I can assure you that through the activities of the 
IWS there is no doubt now, in my judgment, that in the minds of the consumers there is now a preference for wool over all of the other fibres in sufficient number of end uses to enable us to sell all the wool we are capable of producing in the foreseeable future. 
I would interpolate that selling it does not mean getting an adequate price for it; he can see that it will be sold. He continued: 
Wool is in strong demand at the present time and at the consumer level I believe it is remarkable the demand which has been maintained, taking into consideration high interest rates; very difficult economic conditions; uncertainty as to economic conditions; uncertainty as to the value of sterling; uncertainty as to the French franc; uncertainty as to the German currency, and dollar crises. All of these things have happened in the last 18 months and to wool they are very important and are very disturbing to the market. But in spite of all these - one of the worst periods of currency stability we have been through since the end of the Second World War - wool has gone into consumption at a reasonable rate and, from our point of view, a satisfactory rate. 
If we can go through that kind of period with a consumption of the rate it has been then, with the kind of stability we look to be moving into now, the situation ought to be better and all the forecasts which I can get - and those of anybody who is prepared to put their neck out and say what is going to happen to wool prices- are now prepared to say that prices will be better. Please do not quote me, they might not bet That is the best judgment which we can take! That the prospects ahead are better than they have been in the past. If we look at it from that end, therefore, I believe we are starting from a strong position. 
Later in his address he referred particularly to prices in this way: 
I am also going to say with a fair amount of confidence, in answer to  Mr Lee-Steere  because he posed the question without answering it, that wool today is under priced. There are many in the processing side of the industry who have told me (they told me back in June last year, when wool was at least 10c a pound higher than it is today)-- 
At that time the average price of wool was 40c a lb, not the average price of 30c a lb to which it has dropped today. He continued: -- that wool was then cheap. You can use your own judgment about how cheap it is today. In June of last year-- 
This would be in June 1969. He went on: - processors told me that they were making more money out of using wool than they were out of using any other fibre and, ladies and gentlemen, the users of fibre will use the fibre out of which they make the most money. They were not making the money out of it because of the cheapness of the raw material, they were making money out of it because they could sell it at the consumer-level. I do not believe that if the price of raw wool were to increase by 10c per pound it would have any effect whatsoever on the consumption at the consumer level. 
That is what  Sir William  Gunn said in April last year. For many years he has been one of the wool industry's principal experts and advisers. At that meeting he spoke after the then Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony,  who had stated that the Government was setting up a committee which would revitalise the industry and that he expected to have a report on which the Government could act within a few months. The report resulted in the setting up of the Australian Wool 
Commission. Yesterday, Sr William Gunn made in London a statement which represents a complete about face. I am interested in getting the facts in relation to this statement because all that we have at the moment is a report which appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald*. This article is headed: Wool Faces Ruin, says Board chief. The article states: 
The wool Industry will need a major revolution if it is to match the growing competition with the fibre market, the  chairman  of the Australian Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn said today.  Sir William  said the industry was no longer economic at today's prices.  Sir William  said that as far as he knew, no-one in the wool pipeline - including growers, brokers and buyers - was making any money. 
Everyone is in trouble, and they all realise that there must be a change'. 
Because this statement is so diametrically different from the statement that was made only 12 months ago, I ask the Minister whether he will obtain for us a full copy of the statement that was made by  Sir William  Gunn at this Press conference in London yesterday. It seems to me to be tremendously important to the wool producers of Australia and to a large section of our export dollar earning trade. I ask the Minister to do this. 
I want to ask only one question. It refers to capital works and services under Division 925, which relates to Department of Civil Aviation expenditure in the buildings and works departmental section. I was not at the committee concerned because 1 had to attend another one that was meeting at the time. Would the Minister explain what the unusual and unexpected expenditure which had to be taken into a supplementary Budget, of $6,279,000, refers to? 
I refer to clause 3 merely in order to have the opportunity of speaking again on this matter. Apparently the main purport of what I was saying did not get through to the Minister. The Export Payments Insurance Corporation has been carrying on business satisfactorily for 14 years and I appreciate that point. However, in the last 12 months there has been a change because in that period we have sent consignments of wheat to the United Arab Republic. This is something quite new and the political situation is difficult. I am concerned about whether this will happen again and, if so, whether there is provision for the Corporation to refuse risky business. The Minister has in part answered my query. I appreciate the fact that he is at a disadvantage in that this Bill was brought on for debate earlier than was intended and he did not have his advisers wilh him. I hope that he will supply me with this information in due course. It will not affect the passage of the Bill. 
I wish to comment further on the ilmenite shipment. I presume that it was exported by a company in Bunbury or close to Bunbury. I am not sure whether it was covered by marine insurance. I think a purchase was involved. Therefore it could come under the Export Payments Insurance Corporation or the Corporation could cover it for a company that was prepared to accept the risk on the validation of an independent surveyor that the ship was seaworthy. The part that disturbs me is that it was a risk that neither the Corporation nor such a company would be aware of and the insurer was caught. I am not pressing for a reply now. The Minister can probably give me an assurance that this information will be made available to me. However, it is a matter which I think ought to have been mentioned at this stage. The Opposition will not hold up the actual passage of the Bill. 
 I would like to make a point which I think the Minister would agree to. Under the new arrangement which has been entered into with the eventual ratification by all of the countries concerned the importance of this operation will, I understand, be that all transactions will be recorded and the information distributed to all signatories. Is this not the important feature of it? I assume, because there is no price determination, that this will include the price which is paid for wheat sold by an exporting country, so there will be no under the counter dealings and all will be above board. This will make for a better spirit of negotiation between importers and exporters. 
 This Bill which is a small measure consisting of 3 clauses only, is very important. It will involve the Government in a commitment for an additional $200m insurance cover, if it is required. The Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill. However, I propose to refer to some matters contained in it and also express some thoughts with regard to the operation of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation which I feel will need watching. The Corporation has increased in importance over the years that it has been in existence. In 1956 it was given authority to give insurance cover up to $50m, but this was seen to be inadequate for the amount of business that could come its way in insuring payments for exports. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  informed us in his second reading speech that in 1959 the maximum contingent liability of the Corporation was doubled to $100m, that in 1964 it was increased to $150m, in 1965 it was increased to $200m and in June last year it was increased to $300m. The purpose of this Bill is to increase the cover to $500m. 
The Export Payments Insurance Corporation has 2 functions. Firstly, it may take out the insurance cover itself, which, as the Minister said, enables it to guarantee a business transaction of a commercial lending establishment when an exporter is seeking financial accommodation in respect of insured transactions involving deferred payment terms'. This is a very valuable facility possessed by the Corporation. However, it could lead to difficulties, as is pointed out in the Minister's second reading speech when he referred to claims that have been made recently for insurance coverage of exports to areas which are, to say the least, rather dangerous from an insurance point of view. I instance a recent request for coverage of wheat exports to the United Arab Republic. In view of the happenings in that troubled area of the world, deferred payments in this instance could be a dangerous proposition. One never knows what political changes may take place which might endager payments which are being made over a period of time being met in full. This is one of the possibilities that the Corporation may meet in the ordinary course of its business. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The Corporation has discharged its responsibilities with both initiative and prudence. 
When 1 read that, I wondered whether it referred to the businesslike manner in which the Corporation conducts its business or to the care and examination it applies when looking at some of the propositions that are placed before it. The Minister also said: 
It has at the same time ensured that the cost of its services to exporters has been kept to the lowest possible level. In fact, after same 14 years of operation, the Corporation's excess of premium income over claims and operating expenses has amounted to a bare $238,000. 
I have mentioned the difficulty with which the Corporation is faced when it has to cover the sale of wheat to an area where there may be possible instability, but what concerns me is whether the Corporation has the right to refuse cover. Perhaps this is something that the Minister can explain when he replies, because contracts could be entered into by the Australian Wheat Board which then could ask for insurance coverage. Although it might be a doubtful piece of business in terms of future payment, can the Corporation refuse the claim for cover? 
As an illustration of how this may work out, I mention a recent case. I am not sure whether the Export Payments Insurance Corporation actually provided the cover but at least there was some insurance cover. The Corporation may have been involved in looking after the interests of the insuring company, if it was not directly involved. The case concerns the freighter S.S. 'Hanna' which, was bought by a business house in Taiwan from the United States of America earlier this year. This ship was sent by the owners to Adelaide, I understand, to pick up a full cargo of wheat. When it arrived at Port Adelaide a marine surveyor examined the ship and said that, in his opinion, it was unseaworthy. A second opinion was obtained. Another marine surveyor inspected the ship and he agreed that the ship was unseaworthy. A 60-day permit was issued to enable the ship to be moved to a docking facility where repairs could be carried out. The ship left Port Adelaide but instead of going to some docking facility it pulled into the port of Bunbury in Western Australia and proceeded to pick up a load of ilmenite. The Bunbury harbour master is also a representative of the Department of Shipping and Transport, so that Department became involved. He examined the ship when it was loading and found that the ilmenite was pouring out of cracks in the holds and running into the outer bilges of the ship. It was, in his opinion, unseaworthy and unable to take a cargo. He would not grant it a clearance to conduct this operation and an independent surveyor was flown, I believe from Sydney to Bunbury to inspect the ship. The independent surveyor said that the ship was all right. 
This is an important case. Three marine surveyors- responsible people - from their observations, already had condemned the ship as unseaworthy. I am not arguing whether it was unseaworthy. The point is that 3 surveyors had said that it was unseaworthy and, in the end, an independent surveyor approved the ship and its Cargo. It left Bunbury with a full load of ilmenite in reasonable weather conditions and, 2000 miles out in the Indian Ocean, it got into difficulties. It was March and the weather conditions were not bad for that time of the year. The captain and crew were forced to abandon ship and were picked up by another ship that had accompanied the 'Hanna' for a period of 24 hours. The 'Hanna* apparently was insured. This is my point. The ilmenite cargo which was for export was covered by insurance. I feel that this is the sort of danger that may arise in the operations of the Corporation. Is it being forced to cover export commodities irrespective of the conditions? It seems to me that in our endeavour to get export contracts wherever we can, whether for raw minerals or for grain, we are apparently in the habit of taking more risks than we should. This is a serious situation because it is mainly on account of all these extra insurace covers that the Bill seeks to increase the Corporation's maximum contingent liability from $300m to $500m. If business warrants it, I think that insurance is a good proposition for any operations of this kind but I believe that we must exercise caution. I have not been able to find out the extent to which the Corporation is bound to provide insurance cover, and this is something that the Minister could explain. The Bill demonstrates the way in which the Export Payments Insurance Corporation has grown in value and effectiveness. Up to the moment, it has not been in any difficulty and has been able to meet its commitments through the premiums that have been charged. This is quite good but 1 would like to have an assurance from the Minister as to the operating procedure of the Corporation. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill and will give it a speedy passage. 
 The adjournment of the debate on this Bill was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  after an argument as to whether leave would be granted for the second reading speech of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  to be incorporated in Hansard instead of being delivered by the Minister for Civil Aviation. At the time of this argument I asked how many pages there were in the second reading speech. I wanted to know this before I would give my approval to its incorporation. As  Senator Willesee  is not present in the chamber, I propose to go ahead with the debate on the Bill. The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the. Parlia ment for the ratification of the Wheat Trade Convention and the Food Aid Convention of the International Wheat Agreement 1971 and to repeal the Acts which were involved in previous wheat agreements. This Bill is a very short one. It has only 4 clauses. It oversteps the last Bill passed by the Senate, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill, by one clause. However, it is a much more important Bill in view of the matters brought up in the Agreement. 
I wish to look first, at some of the remarks contained in the Minister's second reading speech and to comment on and emphasise some of the points made in it. The International Wheat Agreement has been a very important agreement to Australia over the years. It has determined largely the price that we receive for our wheat in overseas sales. Until a couple of years ago there was no problem in this regard because the. overseas demand for wheat was considerable and was commensurate with the supply available. In the early years of the agreements that were entered into the Canadian top quality wheat was the only one given a price. The prices of the other types of wheat were open to negotiation, based on the estimate that had been already put on the price of the Canadian Manitoba wheat as the top quality grain available. In 1968 the International Grains Arrangement was entered into, as a result of which 14 grades of wheat were given prices. It was unfortunate that just at the time this agreement was entered into the world reached a stage of over-production of wheat and under-consumption in the importing countries. This created a number of very serious difficulties, and the International Grains Arrangement broke down in a very short time. This was very unfortunate, particularly as far as Australia was concerned. This problem is something that the various countries which met this year to set up a new agreement were faced with. 
We find that in the Agreement which has been reached there is no provision for an actual price. The situation will be watched very closely' by the committee which has been set up. Provision has been written into the Agreement that if it becomes advisable for a price fixing mechanism to operate it will be given serious consideration. But as far as I can see, all that the Agreement requires is that the various signatories from time to time give notice of all the transactions which are offering and those into which they have entered. This will be a continuous operation. 
I refer now to the new Food Aid Convention, which is the other part of the Bill. There are fewer signatories to the new Convention than there were to the old Convention, but the amount of wheat that Australia has agreed to provide as food aid remains at  225,000  tons. If I may refer now to the various articles of the Agreement I particularly want to point to one or two facts which I think are of considerable interest. There are  1,000  votes held by the countries which are exporters and  1,000  votes held by countries which are importers. There are only  13  exporting signatories, whereas  48  signatories are importing countries. One interesting feature is that the European Economic Community is both an exporter and an importer so it has a double vote. The EEC controls  252  of the  2,000  votes. Canada controls  280  votes based on the amount of wheat that it normally has for export. The United States has the same number of votes. Australia has  100  votes. lt is interesting to see the considerable power that could be exercised by the European Economic Community, the United States and Canada in the operation of the Agreement. I think I should read article  21,  which is the one to which I referred because it contains the provisions for an examination of prices should any factors arise which make this more possible than it is at the present moment. Article  21  reads: 
In order to assure supplies of wheat and wheat flour to importing members and markets for wheat and wheat flour to exporting members at equitable and stable prices, the Council shall at an appropriate time examine the questions of prices and related rights and obligations. When judged that these matters are capable of successful negotiation with the objective of bringing them into effect within the life of this Convention, the Council shall request the Secretary-General of UNCTAD to convene a negotiating Conference. 
This is the only reference to prices in the articles. The Food Aid Convention makes a new operation possible. It provides that consideration may be given to allowing a country which is unable to provide the wheat it has agreed to provide under the 
Convention to substitute rice. This provision has been suggested on a number of occasions, I believe, but this is the first time that the Convention has incorporated an agreement that consideration will be given to this possibility. It means not that countries will be able to substitute rice for wheat but that consideration will be given to allowing those countries unable to meet their grain quota to supply rice in lieu of making a payment in money. 
The ' Opposition does not oppose this Bill. We regret that it has not solved the international wheat problem. There are a lot of t's uncrossed and a lot of i's und06ted as far as the wheat grower anywhere in the world is concerned, but it would appear from the discussions that have been held that this Convention is the most reasonable and satisfactory way of reaching a conclusion on a very serious problem. We do not oppose the Bill. 
After that momentary excitement perhaps we can get down to the business of the day now that we are taking the 3 matters together. I propose to deal with the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill and the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill. I have no doubt that other speakers will deal with notice of motion No. 4 which appears in the name of  Senator Murphy.  There will be no difficulty as far as orders of the day No. 5 and No. 6 are concerned and I shall first deal very quickly with the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill. The intention of this Bill is that grants that have been made available to the States in the past for farmers' debt adjustment and which are at the present moment unused should be made available for use in the new scheme of the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill.  I  think this is all that is involved in this Bill. It is necessary because certain guidelines were laid down in the operation of this Bill which would have to be varied in order to make them applicable to the operation of the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill which I consider to be one of the most important Bills that we have had before us this session. It is a tragedy that it has had to wait until possibly the last day or two of the session for consideration because it is an extremely important Bill. The primary producers throughout Australia have been looking to the Government for some time to provide some way in which they can be assisted in their extremely parlous situation. I want to draw attention to a statement made by the Minister in his second reading speech. He said: 
 There seems no escape from the unpalatable fact that there will have to be a substantial restructuring of our rural industries. 
He went on to say: 
The rural reconstruction scheme provides for assistance by way of debt  reconstuction,  farm build-up, and rehabilitation of those obliged to leave the industry where this is necessary to alleviate conditions of personal hardship. A complementary scheme to provide retraining assistance to farmers obligated to leave the industry is being formulated by the Department of Labour and National Service and the Department of Primary Industry in consultation with State authorities. Details of this scheme will be announced as soon as practicable. 
I shall go through this Bill in order to show that this is a most unfortunate way of dealing with the problem of the primary producer in Australia at the present time. 
It will be seen that if this amendment which I have proposed is agreed to by the Senate, the House of Representatives will have to be recalled. It is with a full appreciation of this important fact that I am putting forward the amendment. I now wish to go through the provisions of the Bill and the Schedule in order to substantiate the reasons for proposing this amendment. It will be seen that the Bill consists of only 4 clauses. Clauses 3 and 4 are the most important from our point of view. Clause 3 states: 
The execution, on behalf of the Commonwealth, of an agreement between the Commonwealth and all or any of the States substantially in accordance with the form set out in the Schedule to this Act 'is approved. 
There is a reference there to the Schedule. Clause 4 states: 
The payments by the Commonwealth to a State provided for in the agreement referred to in the last preceding section may be made to that State, by way of financial assistance, on the terms and conditions contained in that agreement, out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund which is appropriated accordingly. 
Those are the relevant clauses of the Bill. They provide the authority for the conditions and arrangements set out in the Schedule. 
I propose' now to turn to . the Schedule. Part I deals with the agreement being made with the various States and contains introductory remarks on the operation of the agreement, the purposes of the agreement and its interpretation. Part II deals with the administration of the scheme. We have no objection to paragraphs 4, 5 - and 6 because they are only explanatory in dealing with the rest of the Bill. When, we come down to paragraph 7 we begin to see some of the matters that we will be bringing forward in support of our amendment. At this point I want to direct the attention of the Senate to paragraph 7 because it shows how we. are going to bring the operation of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-1950 into the operation of this Bill. Paragraph 7 reads: 
Where funds ... are capable of being used for a form of assistance included in the Scheme - 
That is the scheme which, has now been put forward -  those funds shall be used by the State for that form of assistance-  honourable senators should note this next phrase which I think is tremendously important -  before any financial assistance is . provided by the Commonwealth under this agreement for that purpose. 
Later as we go through this Schedule we shall be finding out that an amount of Si 00m is available under the scheme over a period of 4 years, but none of this money will be available to a State at any time until it has exhausted the funds which it holds under the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. This money has to be expended before there is any possibility of drawing on the fund. 
If we look at paragraph 8 we find set put the rates of interest that will apply. It nas generally 'been accepted that Commonwealth grants would be made to the States for the operation of this scheme, but later in the Schedule we find that $75m of the amount offered to the States will be repayable and will carry a rate of interest during the period of repayment. Only $25m will be in the form of a grant from the Commonwealth to the States. The States must lend the money to primary producers under 2 schemes. If the loan is for debt reconstruction the rate of interest must be not less than 4 per cent per annum. If it is for farm build-up the rate of interest must be not less than  6  per cent per annum. These rates of interest are pretty high when we realise that the money in the first place has been obtained by the Government largely from income tax, customs and excise duties and so on. But the Commonwealth is going to charge interest on the amount of money which it is making available to the various States for this scheme. 
Part III of the Schedule deals with financial assistance. In this part the amount of $10Om which is being made available to the States is mentioned, and the allocations to the various States are set out in paragraph 12. We see that New South Wales will receive $32m, Victoria $22,070,000, Queensland $16m, South Australia $12m, Western Australia $14,630,000, and Tasmania $3,300,000. I want to emphasise that this amount which will be made available to the States after they have met the requirements of the previous agreement, that all funds under the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act must have been exhausted, is available only over 4 years. So to take the case of Western Australia, the amount of $14,630,000 will be paid at the rate of $3,500,000 per year, of which 75 per cent has to be repaid and only 25 per cent is a gift to the State. However, the State will charge interest for the use of the money. 
The situation with which we are faced in Australia is seen very dramatically in an extract from yesterday's 'West Australian'. In that newspaper appears a report from the Bureau of Agricultural 
Economics in which it is pointed out that farm income will fall by about $140m this year. The Bureau thinks that farm income in 1970-71 will total $890m compared with $l,032m last financial year. In its quarterly review of agricultural economics the Bureau said that farm income reached a peak of $ 1,431m in 1963- 64. The number of farms involved in the case of wool producers solely is about 92,000. The fact that their income is dropping so much shows how badly off they are. Most of the wool growers on the large properties are not feeling so badly the pinch caused by the low price of wool, but the majority of growers - about 80,000 - are feeling its effects. When we take the wool growers alone in relation to the operation of this scheme, . an average of about $1,000 would be required for each producer to get him out of trouble. That would be the case if we gave this money to all of them but, of course, if we go a little further in the Schedule we find that it will not be given to all of them. At this stage I do not wish to repeat points which have been made in relation to the financial assistance set out in the Schedule. 1 want to turn to the Schedule, Rural Reconstruction, Outline of Proposals, Part 1, General Principles. It deals with the distribution of the funds that are available to the farmers who believe that they are in need. One of the tragedies of this scheme is that the people who are really in need will get no assistance at all. In Western Australia about 3,500 farmers are leaving their properties and about another 3,000 are on the verge of leaving. They are going because their properties are not viable propositions in the terms required in this Schedule to qualify for assistance. The general principle is to distribute the available resources as widely as practicable, but the overriding objective is te help to restore the economic viability of farms which have the capacity to maintain viability once it is achieved. That means that many farmers who are in difficulties will not be able successfully to apply for assistance. 
There is one way in which they can receive some assistance. Paragraph (g) provides that if the Authority agrees to a property being purchased by a neighbour, and the neighbour can turn it into a viable proposition, the Authority will consider assisting the neighbour to buy that property. In that way the neighbour will enlarge his own property, but the seller would get some assistance from' the sale of his property. That is about the only way in which a farmer so situated, so far as I can see, can get any assistance from the scheme. It is extremely difficult for such people to improve their position' in any way, even to live. Part II relates to debt reconstruction. I am covering these points rather rapidly because of time limitations. The purpose of debt reconstruction is to help farmers who have sound prospects of achieving economic viability but are prevented from doing so' by their current debts. They may have used up all their cash and credit resources. This provision would enable them by loans to get back on to their feet, with a reasonable prospect of success. 
I want to emphasise that each type of assistance to be provided to farmers under this scheme involves a loan on which interest has to be paid as well as the repayments of the loan. There is no provision for grants or the writing off of debts. In order to receive assistance a farmer must accept the responsibility of paying off a loan, together with interest. I think we should examine the nature of the assistance that is to be provided. This is dealt with in paragraph  (3)  of part II, which deals with debt reconstruction. It states: 
The assistance to be provided may encompass where necessary - 
a rearrangement and/or a composition of debts to allow more time for payment 
This is quite a reasonable provision, but again assistance is to be given by a loan to take over the composite of a farmer's indebtedness. He still has to pay off the loan. It goes on: 
the negotiation of a concessional rate of interest for existing rates. 
That is fair enough. It then provides: 
advances of additional funds for carry-on expenses, live stock and further property development, at reasonable interest rates. 
The problem of farmers is that they are not wanting money just to carry on and then to pay it back. They have no income and they require assistance without the need to pay money back at this stage. They want to see their way clear to a return to a viable condition without further indebtedness on their shoulders. The Schedule then provides: 
Where the State legislation so provides, a protection order against . any creditor who has threatened action for debt, to apply while the application is tinder consideration and subject to such extensions as the administering Authority may. from time to time determine.  . . 
This is a good point. I agree that it is worthwhile but it does not outweigh the other difficulties which arise - from the Schedule.. The provisions will not be of considerable benefit to the . farmers who really need assistance. I turn now ;to paragraph 4 (d), which provides: , , 
In. exceptional cases, advances, tor' carry-on expenses and live stock may, be made ;to..a farmer who is not .yet in immediate danger of losing property or other assets but who 'in the opinion of the Authority is likely to 'reach that position without such assistance, such, cases being tested strictly against the remaining eligibility criteria. 
Even that provision is not definite: A farmer really has to work to get any assistance under this scheme even though he may be in very serious difficulties. It is necessary to establish whether the granting of assistance to him would place him in a viable situation. Part III of the Schedule deals with farm build-up and the test of eligibility. Paragraph  (3)  (a) provides that the purchaser of an adjoining holding or part of an adjoining holding may receive assistance at an interest rate of not less than  6i  per cent, if eligibility for assistance is established. The only ameliorating circumstance is that the scheme will allow the cost of improvements on a property that has been taken over to be wiped off. That is about the only way in which there can be real assistance from the scheme; that is, where a person receiving assistance does not have to repay a loan. Paragraph  3  (b) provides that assistance can include: 
Grants at the discretion of the Authority to cover, in whole or in part, losses sustained in the disposal of assets included in the purchase price of the property, which are not useful for the build-up property. 
Paragraph 4 relates to the method of operation and contains some very important provisions. It is still made very difficult for a farmer to obtain assistance, particularly one who intends to leave the industry. 
Paragraph (4) (a) relates to assistance in respect of a farmer who has a neighbour who is willing to buy his property. As far as I can understand these provisoins that is about the only way that a farmer can get out of his property under this scheme. Paragraph 4 (i) states: 
While any advances by the Authority in respect of a built-up property remain unpaid, the transfer of part of the built-up property will not be permitted if this would result in a property of a size too small to be economic. 
We are dealing with the situation in which a primary producer will try to obtain some assistance to make his own property viable or to amalgamate his property with another property, either to make his property larger  ot  to make the adjoining property larger and leave his own property. 
The last section in the Bill is Part IV which deals with the question of rehabilitation. I cannot understand why this section was drafted in such ridiculous terms. The important point is that where a property is taken from a person and that person is left with no property, under the scheme he will be able to obtain a loannot a gift- of $1,000. He will have to repay the loan, including interest. He will receive this loan possibly so that he can move his furniture or arrange for the sale of his goods or conduct some minor financial transaction. That is all he will be able to do with a loan of $1,000. Because of the difficulties which the introduction of the scheme will create for farmers who really need assistance, we really have to have a careful look at the position of primary industry in Australia. 
The terms of the Bill are evidence of the fact that the Bill has been introduced in a hurry. It has not been adequately considered. It is for this reason that the Opposi-^ lion believes that the only way in which we can satisfactorily deal with the situation is to withdraw the Bill and have it redrafted to ensure that more adequate attention is given to the problems facing the primary producer. I know that if our amendment were carried it would mean that the introduction of the scheme would be delayed for a certain period, but it would not be for very long. I must emphasise that the introduction of the scheme will be delayed because of the unexpended funds held under the farmers' debt adjustment scheme. If this Bill were assented to tomorrow the scheme could not come into operation until those funds were expended. So it seems reasonable that we should introduce the following amendment. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert - the Bill be withdrawn in order that the Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States be amended to make provision for more detailed criteria on eligibility and to ensure that every bona fide producer, within an acceptable means test, is eligible to receive assistance which will enable persons: 
to remain in primary production where it is considered, on technical and economic evidence available, that financial viability can be achieved within a reasonable time; 
to move out of primary production where it is considered, on technical and economic evidence available, that financial viability cannot be achieved within a reasonable time; 
to participate, with their 'family, in a fully co-ordinated rehabilitation programme including technical college education or at least its equivalent.' . 
I think that this amendment indicates the main purpose of the scheme in terms clearer than those contained in the Bill. It is very important that this matter should be seriously considered on the evidence available, taking into account the limitations, which are contained in the Schedule. We ought to ensure that the scheme extends as far as I think the Government wants it to extend. There will be difficulties in the operation of the scheme. It would be of value to all concerned, including the primary producers of this country, if the Senate were to accept the amendment which I have moved. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
 Mr Deputy President,  my question is addressed to you. 
Would you inquire to see whether the microphones which the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate wear round their necks are operating? I noticed this morning that the microphone which the Leader of the Government in the Senate is using does not appear to be operating. It is very difficult for us to hear him when he turns round and addresses honourable senators on his side of the chamber. I think that the microphones on the table are the only ones operating. Yesterday when  Senator Murphy  was addressing himself to a motion he was asked repeatedly to speak up, yet he was wearing a microphone round his neck. I think that the microphones are not operating to their maximum efficiency, and that the situation should be rectified. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have heard frequent complaints about honourable senators not being able to hear other honourable senators, including those who sit at the table. I understand that it is hoped that some improvement to the system will be made during the forthcoming recess. I will have investigations made and will let the honourable senators know the result. 

 Mr Deputy President, could I advert to the same question before we deal with other questions? There is not a shadow of doubt that there are dead spots in the Senate chamber so far as audibility is concerned. 
 Your .microphone is working now. 
Yes, it is working now. As  Senator Wilkinson  was speaking I tapped it and suddenly it began to operate. But there are dead spots in this chamber which make it very difficult for some honourable senators to hear what is being said. It is almost impossible for us sitting at the table to hear, for instance,  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Wriedt  when they speak. Also, it is almost impossible for us to hear  Senator Georges  when he speaks. I have discussed this matter with the  Clerk  of the Senate and I understand that during the forthcoming recess another examination will be made  to  see whether the system can be improved. It is better than it was, but it is still not operating to maximum efficiency. 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does Australia's foreign aid include the private investment of Australians in other countries; if so, is it a fact that Australian Government aid to overseas countries would not exceed 0.59 per cent of the gross national product without this private investment? 
Does Australia's aid to Papua New Guinea account for about 80 per cent of Australia's total foreign aid? 
The Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which comprises major western aid donors including Australia, uses three measures of resources flows from developed to developing countries, the total generally being expressed as a percentage of gross national product: 
the total net flow of official and private resources; 
net official flows; and 
net official development assistance. 
The total net flows of official and private resources' corresponds to the definition used in the much publicised one per cent target. Australia's foreign aid defined in this sense includes Australian private investment in developing countries. This index is deficient in a number of respects as a measure for comparing the relative aid efforts of donor countries, in particular because it lumps together private and official flows which are generally motivated by entirely different considerations. 
Net official flows' reflects that part of the flow of resources to developing countries which has been the subject of Government decision but it includes various transactions which are not considered to be concessional in character. The more accepted and utilised measure is 'official development assistance' which omits non-concessional elements. 
The following details of Australia's aid performance in 1970 illustrate the conceptual difference between the three measures. 

<graphic href="048232197105142_10_1.jpg"></graphic>

It  is  not clear to what measure of foreign aid the honourable senator is referring. In respect of each of the three described indicators, the Territory of Papua-New Guinea received less than 80 per cent of the relevant aid flows in 1970. In 1970, 71.7 per cent of Australia's net official development assistance was directed to the Territory. 
 This amendment was foreshadowed by  Senator Kane  earlier in the debate. Unfortunately, apparently  Senator Byrne  was not present when  Senator Kane  started speaking. In the early part of his speech  Senator Kane  said that a great deal of information concerning rural industries is already available in the various State Departments of Agriculture and in the Commonwealth Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It was our contention, based on our understanding that this was the fact although we did not say so, that if we had brought forward our amendment it would not have meant a prolonged delay to the passage of the Bill. If that was all that this amendment sought to do the Opposition would be prepared to give serious consideration to it. I think honourable senators should have a look at what this amendment actually seeks to do. It seeks to have set up an expert commission of inquiry into the whole structure pf rural economy. Such an expert examination would take anything up to  5  years. But what will happen to primary producers in those  5  years? 
The honourable senator has asked for an expert commission - that part is all right - but the Australian Labor Party wants some action now and this Bill is supposed to deal with the situation now. I direct attention to paragraph (a) of the amendment which relates to the expected export demand for Australian rural products, taking into account among other things the policies of the European Economic Community. Where will that information be ascertained? We said that because of information to which we have access the Bill should be re-written, but our amendment was defeated. This amendment refers also to the question of finance and says that the expert commission should take into account the financial structure required to support necessary changes and the service and finance for such purpose. If we talk to experts on agricultural economics - I mean not self-styled experts but professors, of agricultural economics in any of the Australian universities - we will get a differing set of answers. What more expert information would be available? It does not matter which way we look at the amendment. If the amendment would enable the Bill to be amplified so that it would have some immediate effect, we would consider it. All that is proposed is the setting up of some sort of royal commission which would go on forever and a day. This is supposedly to show the people that we are concerned for them. But what is the use of such an 
Inquiry? What the farmers want is some action - something now. As  I  said during the second reading debate, in Western Australia alone - agriculturally one of the smallest States  - 3,500  persons will never be able to get anywhere with their farms and a further  3,000  will leave their farms. 
I do not want to prolong this debate. The Opposition will not support the amendment because it would not do the industry any good. It will be much better if the Senate supports the motion which  Senator Murphy  will move this afternoon to refer certain matters to the Standing Committee oh Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. This should ensure that action will be taken within a reasonable time. 
When we were dealing with the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill it was indicated that this Bill would be debated in conjunction with it and also in conjunction with the motion proposed by  Senator Murphy  to refer the primary industry problem to the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. I indicated at the time that the Opposition would not oppose this Bill. As a matter of fact we can see considerable value in using the funds which had been paid out previously in the execution of this Act to the various States in conjunction with the rural reconstruction scheme. It is noted that Tasmania will be excluded from the operation of this Bill because a grant was made to that State for particular purposes. It is also noted, although it has nothing to do with the Bill, that in his second reading speech the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  advised that the Commonwealth Banking Corporation proposed to widen the scope of activity of the Bank to make it more acceptable to farmers and easier for them to get certain types of assistance. I do not want to say any more. We are in support of this Bill and we wish to give it a speedy passage. 
The amendment that has been moved by Senate Kane on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party would, to the casual observer - that would be to the majority of farmers - appear to be holding out considerable hope for farmers in the immediate future. If the proposal could be put into operation a lot of farmers would think, from a first look at the amendment, that they could be helped in a considerable way, but when one examines the amendment more closely one wonders what will be done for the people who are in serious difficulty right now. When he moved the amendment  Senator Kane  said that we will shortly be entering a period when primary producers will be in an extremely bad situation. They are in an extremely bad situation now. This situation has arrived. As I said only the other day, in Western Australia there are 3,500 people who have to get off their farms right now and another 3,000 who will have to leave their farms very soon. This situation obtains all over Australia, although I have quoted only Western Australia. In Australia there are 92,000 farmers who have 200 sheep or more. This indicates the extent of sheep farming - from those with small flocks to those with large flocks. They are all in difficulty. 
In his second reading speech on the States Grant (Rural Reconstruction Bill) the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  said that there are 92,000 farmers who have more than 200 sheep. If one looks further at the amendment one sees that what it proposes is exactly what is proposed in the rural reconstruction scheme. All the means that are proposed to be made available are means which will be available on loan, whether a short term or long term loan, with repayments. Most of these farmers are in difficulty and want some adjustment of their debts.  Senator Byrne  suggested that perhaps we could consider a moratorium, but a moratorium exists in Western 
Australia already. The Loan (Farmers Debt Adjustment) Act has been in existence for goodness knows how long. It has been in existence since the depression days and it has been reintroduced every time its term has been due to expire. It now exists until 1973 and it is available for farmers to use in Western Australia. But they are not using it. Why are they not using it? The answer is that if they make use of the scheme the operation of their property will have to be subject to an administrator. Their debts will certainly be deferred for 12 months or 2 years, but they will still have to pay them. Under the Act the farmer thinks that somewhere he will get out of his indebtedness caused by overcapitalisation or by some other situation which has happened in the past. But when he examines the Act he finds that he obtains no relief at all; he merely gets a moratorium for the period which is allocated by an administrator who takes over the farm. 
For some years in Western Australia practically no applications have been put forward by the farmers under the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. This is the reason for the objection on the part of the Opposition to the first part of the amendment put forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party, which deals with the establishment of a national rural finance corporation. As  Senator Prowse  has indicated quite rightly, this would be something outside the banking system when we have other facilities which we could expand. 
Another section of the amendment deals with estate duty. Honourable senators will remember that the purpose of the Estate Duty Assessment Bill which was introduced last year was to correct to a certain extent the operation of estate duty assessment. At the time, that is on 7th May 1970, I moved an amendment in these terms: 
At end of motion add, 'but, whilst realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24th September 1969 and that this limited Bill offers some measure of relief from death duties in the rural sector, the Senate is of opinion: 
That the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation. 
the particularly critical situation of - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sector, where in both cases a large part of the estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of which to meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation, and 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States; and 
that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by further amendments of the Act.' 
That is the stand which the Labor Party, in its opposition to the present proposed amendments, is taking. I am afraid that we cannot accept the amendment which seeks to express the opinion that the Commonwealth Government should retire as soon as practicable from the field of estate duty. The amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Prowse  - which we cannot accept either - is in similar terms. It requests that the Government in its Budget consideration should give earnest attention to retiring from the estate duty field. We do not consider that the Commonwealth Government should be retiring from that field but that we should examine the situation to see what amendments should be made or what should be done in view of the operation of the present Estate Duty Assessment Act. The Opposition finds itself unable to support any section of the amendment. We hope the Bill will be carried as it stands. 
 Senator Byrne  spoke in favour of  Senator Prowse's  amendment, and I feel sure he just about convinced himself, even if he did not convince everybody else. One would imagine, from what has been said by  Senator Byrne,  that this amendment is the solution to the problems facing farmers at the present time. What ridiculous nonsense. 
No. I do not think that the burden of estate duties is the cause of the problems facing farmers at the present time. The present position is that a man has a property which appears to be a wealthy property on paper.  Senator Byrne  told us that when this man dies and estate duty is imposed on his estate, his family has to sell the property at the market value, not at the potential value, in order to pay the duty. The point of the whole argument is that the property will not bring its potential value at present prices, but death duty is assessed on the potential value of the property. 
The Opposition's objection to the amendment is that the amendment requests the Government to give urgent consideration to retiring completely from the field of estate duty. It does not ask the Government to make a complete examination of the whole question of estate duty. We believe that an examination should be made of the whole question of estate duty so that assistance can be given to those people who are placed in the position of having to pay estate duty on the potential value of a property, not on the market value of a property. We tried to get the Government to make such an examination on 7th May 1970, but honourable senators opposite voted against our amendment. 
Yes, they voted against our amendment on 7th May last year. We asked the Government to make an examination of the whole question of estate duty with a view to rectifying the position. This is what we want done. It looks as though there might be a split in the Australian Country Party on this issue. If the majority of the members of the Country Party and one or two members of the Liberal Party want the Commonwealth to retire from the area of estate duty they will vote for the amendment, but the Opposition believes that an examination should be made of the whole question of estate duty. I am certain that the Commonwealth will look at this matter before the presentation of the next Budget. There is no doubt about that. But I am perfectly confident that the Commonwealth will not retire from the area of estate duty. The Labor Party Opposition believes that there should not be large estates. We believe that wherever possible large estates should be reduced. 
1 am stating what the Labor Party believes. I accept that  Senator Laucke  is within his rights in expressing a different opinion. I believe that estate duty should be paid on large estates, but I do not believe that hardship should be imposed on a wife who has to try to find the money with which to pay death duties.  Her  position was made much easier by the legislation which we considered 12 months ago. On that occasion certain amendments were made to the estate duty law. But I believe that we should go further and make an examination of the whole question to see what else can be done. 
Actually, when one looks at this question of estate duty in its entirety one finds that the States are taking much more than the Commonwealth. That is why I say that the whole question should be considered. We have nothing to do with what the States do in this field, but we in the Commonwealth should have a look at the situation in the Commonwealth sphere and see what can be done to make the position more realistic. 
We will not vote for the amendment which asks the Commonwealth to retire from the area of estate duty without making an examination of the whole question. That is the position. 
Quibbling nothing. The Australian Democratic Labor Party will vote for the amendment and probably 4 or 5 Government senators will cross the floor and vote for it. But the Opposition will not support the amendment because we do not believe that the Commonwealth should retire from the area of estate duty without making an examination of the whole question, particularly as far as the big and wealthy properties are concerned. That is the Opposition's position. 
 I doubt that we will be able to complete the consideration of this Bill in 5 minutes, although it should not take long to deal with. Some time ago when the price of wool became disastrously low and it became difficult for wool growers to make ends meet the Australian Wool Board instituted inquiries through expert committees with a view to finding ways of improving the situation of the wool producers. One of the suggestions that was brought forward in order to reduce the costs involved in the marketing and handling of wool before it left our shores was that we should set up wool complexes. Honourable senators will remember that the idea was put forward about 12 months ago with the intention of allowing the setting up of complexes preferably by existing wool brokers who would be acting on their own behalf and building new streamlined premises for the cheaper handling of wool and more effective operation before it reached the auction stage. 
The Australian Wool Board was authorised to set up the complex if it could not get the co-operation and the incentive of the private broking companies. The intention was that by streamlining the whole process of presenting wool for auction we would be able to reduce considerably the cost involved, and this would further improve the situation of the wool growers. I am pleased that we adopted that proposal at that time and also that we are now proceeding in the complexes to inaugurate core testing and objective measurement prior to auction. This is the sort of thing that I advocated some 4 years ago. The proposal was not accepted very enthusiastically because it was contrary to the usual method of displaying wool, which involved bringing it up from the store, repacking it, and returning it to the store. As I mentioned at that time, this process costs anything up to $3.50 a bale. Core testing is very much cheaper. It costs about 20c a bale but, of course, the cost of objective measurement and so on has to be added. However, these were desirable measures to be taken. - . It is expected that the complexes might reduce the costs and thus make more money available. But I am still a bit worried about the operation . of the scheme because we do not know what the complex will look like. My. original thought, was that a complex would consist of a place where everything would be. kept together and run by .the Wool Board on behalf of the growers, and this would reduce costs. But we find from the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that there will be 3 brokers at Yennora, which is the first complex being set up. These 3 brokers have already started work and they will be followed by others. This will probably mean that the whole field of brokers will be represented at Yennora. It is very interesting to see this, although Yennora is in the Sydney area. I am hoping that future operations along these lines will result in decentralisation. One of the important suggestions that has been made to me in this regard by my colleague,  Senator Poyser,  is that Portland and Geelong in Victoria could be considered. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I drew attention earlier to the fact that the whole of these exercises that are being carried out with regard to wool seek to try to improve the position of the wool grower. I honestly hope that the economies which will result from this legislation will be to the benefit of the wool grower himself. I was a little disturbed when I read in one of the papers today reference to a remark that was made by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  when the other place was meeting the week before last. The reference was to the effect that aid which is granted under the grants scheme to wool growers who are in difficulty will be subject to income tax. This means that what we are giving with one hand we could be removing in part with the other. As I say, I hope that these complexes that we are talking about will result in economies which 'can be passed on to the wool grower. 
Before the sitting was suspended I had mentioned decentralisation of :the wool complexes.' I hope that 'the . experiment - and it is an experiment' at Yennora - will be repeated in other States and that the opportunity will .be taken . by the Australian Wool Board arid the . 'Australian Wool Commission to moye, away' from the cities. Of course, Yennora ' is , close to Sydney. My colleague,'  Senator Poyser,  asked me to remember that in Portland and Geelong we have two- excellent deep water ports handy to : the. wool: producing areas. Perhaps these ports could -be used if this type of complex were considered for other States. . . , . 
In my own State of Western Australia an ideal situation exists iri Albany which has one of the best harbours in ' the world. I think that this is undenied; The harbour is not fully developed to its capacity- and is one which is adjacent to the wool growing industry. This would be an ideal situation for a wool complex. I hope that in the establishment of these complexes duplication of the present practice with regard to wool brokers and their individual establishments will not go too far.' I have made these remarks in order to' give a background to the Bill. 
The purpose of the Bill is to enable the Australian Wool Commission to obtain the finance necessary for the establishment of these complexes either on its own behalf or by private companies. The Bill is the means by which we are enabling these commitments to be met by the Commission so that the acquisition of the complexes can proceed. I think that the experiment of core testing and measurement of the samples so that they can be cheaply presented to the buyers and adequately identified is one of the most important moves that has been made in the establishment of these complexes. 
The Opposition is not opposed to the implementation of the provisions of this Bill. We welcome its introduction as an opportunity for making the Australian Wool Commission work better in the establishment of the complexes. As I said previously, we hope that it will result in improved income to the wool producers who will be supplying the wool to the complexes. The Opposition . does not oppose the Bill. 
 I would like an explanation from the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in regard to clause 3, proposed sub-section (1b.) which states: 
The Treasurer may, with the concurrence of the Minister . . . 
The general impression is that this proposed sub-section will give approval for the Treasurer to guarantee the payment of moneys as set out in the Bill. The proposed sub-section states that - he may, which, of course, also means that he may not. Is this a standard method of wording? Would the Minister care to explain just what is involved by the use of the word may' instead of 'will'? 
I wish to participate in this debate for ' only a couple of minutes in order" to congratulate  Senator Little  on his address, although it was given in the wrong place, lt should have been given in a State Parliament and not in the Commonwealth Parliament, and especially not in the Senate. It was broadcast. Many people will have listened to it and thought it was good; that it was the sort of address that ought to be made. But I want to correct him. The point is that the Commonwealth has no jurisdiction over education. That has been entirely forgotten by the honourable senator. In the Commonwealth Parliament we can look at science laboratories and libraries; but we cannot look at education and making grants to schools. That is a State responsibility; it is not the responsibility of this Parliament. 
It is no good bringing up this nonsense. We are talking about what can be done by this Parliament. When we look at the wording of our amendment, which has been criticised severely, we see that the amount about Which we are talking is for assistance to the schools, lt means insofar as the Commonwealth can go; it does not mean that we should be running education for the various States. We contend that the Bill should be withdrawn for that purpose. We also contend that it should be redrafted. The amendment does not say that the Bill should be thrown away. It says that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to increase the grant for schools insofar as the Commonwealth can increase the grant for schools. The Commonwealth cannot provide for education. It can provide grants to the States, which themselves administer education. We can supply the buildings for libraries and we can supply the buildings for science laboratories. The intention here is that the grant by the Commonwealth - we are not discussing the State situation - should be increased so that there will be equal facilities for both State and private schools. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I appreciate that he proposes to make a statement later today on the question of the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam, but the aspect I have in mind may not be covered in that statement. Therefore, I ask: The Opposition is pleased to have its Vietnam policy partially adopted by the Government, but will the Leader of the Government give an assurance that all our troops will be withdrawn immediately and not just the combat troops? How many troops does the Government intend to leave in Vietnam to prop up  President  Nixon's disintegrating Vietnamisation programme? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Government give favourable and urgent consideration to the need for financial aid to the State Shipping Service of Western Australia to enable it to continue providing a shipping service for the Port of Darwin which is outside the State? Also, will the Government reconsider its previous decision not to provide assistance for the purchase of a replacement ship for the State Shipping Service? 
This question relates to another matter which is clearly a State responsibility. There is a shipping service from Western Australia to Darwin. 1 understand that it is owned by the Western Australian Government. There is industrial trouble in that area also. 
No, there is not. 
I suppose it boils down to the interpretation of 'industrial trouble in that area'. I know that there has been a long history of problems associated with the shipping service. 
It is a matter of what emphasis one places on the word. 
I think that if we had a lengthy debate on the matter I could demonstrate that there has been some industrial trouble. Perhaps during the Estimates debate we will come to that. There are real problems in Western Australia. That is my compromise. I must admit that recently I was in Darwin and there I was told certain things about the shipping service that may have coloured my judgment. The essence of the answer really is that the matter is for the Western Australian Government. If it wants to make certain representations to the Commonwealth, clearly they should be made at the Premier to Prime Minister level. Failing that, representations could be made to the Commonwealth Department of Shipping and Transport. 
 I think I should reiterate what  Senator Young  said about the extensive ramifications of our inquiries into this matter. These became obvious to us early and we felt that it should have been the subject of an inquiry placed in the hands of a select committee instead of a standing committee. However, I think it is fair to say that we accepted our responsibility and followed up all the avenues carefully, thoughtfully and as extensively as we could in the limited time available to us. The breadth of the inquiry and the fact that 3 reservations have been made by Tasmanian senators on the Committee warrants, we feel, more time being given to this debate than would be possible at this moment. Therefore, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a future date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister received requests to make an appeal to the Government of Pakistan for clemency in the case of Sheik Mujibur Rahman? Has he made any appeal? If so, what has been the response? 
Later: 
The Prime Minister did send personal messages to the  President  of Pakistan on the situation in that country and mentioned, in particular, Australia's concern about Sheik Rahman and Australia's hope that, if possible, compassion would be exercised. The matter is still under constant review. That is all I can say. 
Together with honourable senators who have spoken before me in this debate I wish to congratulate the new senators on the way in which they have made their maiden speeches. I think we all agree that the standard of the speeches delivered by the new senators in the last few weeks has been of a very high calibre. They have done their homework and the high quality of their speeches presages well for future debates in this chamber. I congratulate the honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches during the course of this debate. I think there is one other who has reserved the right to make his maiden speech later, and I presume that be will do so very shortly. Also I am happy to say to  Senator Little  that for the first time in my sojourn here I find myself in complete agreement with the remarks he made during the first 23 minutes of his address. I thought his statement on the monetary and financial system and the way that inflation is brought about echoed a lot of my own thinking. I am not prepared to join him in his criticism of my colleagues on this side of the chamber, nor do 1 agree with his final remarks. 
The main objective of the Budget that the Government has brought down - of course, it has to deal with all the normal objectives in running the country - was to meet the inflationary situation with which we are faced. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget Speech made repeated attacks on the increase in wages as being one of the prime causes of inflation. Obviously an increase in wages is a prime cause of  costs  rising but it does not necessarily mean that we are reaching an inflationary situation. When we look at the Budget to see what the Government is trying to do we find that this situation is not being adequately met. I find most encouraging the statement - it was not developed any further - which appears on pages 2 and 3 of the Budget Speech. The Treasurer stated: 
. expenditure has been running very high in non-residential construction and, to a lesser extent, on the purchase and installation of capital equipment. 
This is the sort of thing that we ought to be looking at much more closely than we have during the course of this Budget debate. This is the criticism that we ought to be making. On first analysis it seems to me that when we look at the industries that are being established in the capital cities of this country we find a lot of capital expenditure being put into buildings and the development of major industries. Quite obviously this is putting money into the hands of the workers but it is not producing any extra goods for the workers to buy. My very elementary knowledge of economics has shown that an inflationary situation is created when there is greater purchasing power than there are goods to purchase. 
It is very interesting to note this matter was taken up by the television programme This Day Tonight' in Western Australia last Monday. The Australian Broadcasting Commission's team went to some bother to produce a 20 minute programme. It was extremely interesting. On the programme Professor Bowen, who is the professor of economics at the University of Western Australia, was interviewed. One of the things that he said was that we are losing sight of the fact that the moves being made by the United States of America in financial circles are likely to have more far reaching effects on our economy than the Government realised when it was drawing up the Budget. This statement was made by a professor of economics. He said that in his opinion more emphasis should be placed on what is happening outside Australia than on what is happening inside Australia in order to correct the economy. I certainly feel that we have to look at what has happened inside Australia, but he made the point that more emphasis should be placed on what is happening outside. 
The team that produced this segment on the programme 'This Day Tonight' conducted a survey in Western Australia by interviewing representatives of a number of business houses who were asked a few pertinent questions with regard to the situation as they found it in view of the Budget which has been brought down by the Government. The team interviewed people who had small businesses of 20 to 30 employees and people who had businesses with 200 to 300 employees. So answers were obtained from a pretty good cross-section of industry. One of the questions asked was: 
In view of the Budget, do you have any plans for expansion? 
Of those people interviewed, 75 per cent said 'No'. The next question asked was: 
Are you holding current levels of production? 
In answer to this question, 20 per cent of those interviewed expected that the rate of production would drop; 10 per cent - that is half of those people included in this 20 per cent - went even further and said that they expected that they would have to cut back production. This is the sort of thing that industry is looking at. The next question asked was: 
To whom do you attribute this recession that you are experiencing In your manufacturing industry? 
Forty-five per cent said that they believed it was due to Government policy that was brought down in the Budget. This survey, which was conducted in Western Australia, was said to be on a voluntary basis. The figures I have given are not my own; they are the figures that were given on this programme. Twenty per cent of the people said that they felt that the recession was due to the crisis in the rural industry, that because the value of primary products had dropped so sharply the farmers did not have money to spend in the city, in manufacturing businesses and so on. Of the 20 per cent who said that they felt that this is where the trouble lay, 10 per cent felt that this was not the entire reason. They did not blame the Government; they said that the rural crisis had brought about this situation but they said thai a slow down in the mining field at this stage had also contributed to the situation. I thought that these figures were very interesting and something that we ought to have had a look at here. 
I omitted to say that I did not intend to make a long address tonight because I think most matters have been presented already. However, there are 3 matters that I want to mention. I have dealt with one of them. 1 want to have a look at the Defence vole in the Budget. If we look at the anticipated expenditure on defence we find that it comes in round figures to some $ 1.200m. I think this is the third largest expenditure in this Budget and therefore i.s  a  pretty considerable item out of the total expenditure of $8,833m. Actually, the Defence vote covers the ancillary services of Navy, Army, Air, as well as Supply and General Services. When we look at these figures individually we find that the vote for the Department of Defence i&amp; he smallest. It is only $25m. The appropriation for General Services is. in round figures, $40.8m; for the Department of Supply it is SI 10.5m; Navy is S282.75m; Air $3 1 6m, and Army $4 77m. 
I do not think that this is the proper occasion on which to delve into where the money is being spent. This should be looked at very closely when we are examining the Estimates to find out whether the money is being spent to the best advantage. I say this because we are dealing with $ 1,200m. What do we have to show at the end of 12 months for the expenditure of that sum? If we consider the expenditure for this purpose last year and subtract the wages and salaries of the personnel involved, if we consider the new equipment that we have bought and the new buildings that we have erected, what else do we have for the expenditure of this amount of money? I think this situation should be looked at very closely to see where economies can be made, lt is probable that we could have the same sort of service with a reduction in cost. 
We must not forget that most of these people have a vested interest in their own department and want to get as much as possible for their department. This is rather like Parkinson's Law. But we should remember also that there is a Peter's principle which also applies to the situation and which should not be forgotten. For those who have not read it, the book The Peter Principle' states the principle that everybody eventually, when advanced in his position, reaches a level at which he is incompetent. If we could find economies in our defence spending the amounts that are now spent on defence could be spent in other ways. We should give consideration to our additional requirements for education, housing and social services, including pensions and child endowment. These areas need further examination because it is essential that something be done in these spheres. I reiterate: When dealing with the defence estimates, let us look closely at where the money is being spent. 
Another matter that I propose to mention is one dealt with by  Senator Guilfoyle,  who has just come into the chamber. She drew to our attention the fact that $21 5m will be spent on postal services. 1 always object to the way in which we look at the cost of our postal and telecommunications services. We seem to forget that the PostmasterGeneral's Department operates on the $255m that it receives under a one-line entry in the Budget, the $639m that it receives from telecommunications and the $2 15m that it receives from its postal services, a total of $l,109m to be spent by the Postmaster-General's Department in 1971-72. This is a big amount which should be closely scrutinised. No scrutiny has been given to this, except on the occasions when I have had an opportunity to bring this matter to the notice of the Senate during the Estimates debate by the Committee of the Whole. Nowadays it is not possible to attend all meetings of the Committee and I have not been able to raise this matter because my time has been occupied with primary industries. I hope that the expenditure of Si, 109m by the Postmaster-General's Department will be closely scrutinised to ensure that the expenditure of this amount is necessary. 
Some years ago when I criticised expenditure by the Postal Department there was a great song about the Department providing SDT services for everybody in every part of Australia. We were told that this was a wonderful advance. Of course it is a wonderful advance, but we have to pay for it if we want it. It is not simply a matter of the Postmaster-General's Department adopting this system because it thinks it is a necessary advance which will improve efficiency and of the Parliament approving the expenditure without complaint. It is matters of this kind that we must examine. 
I propose to refer quickly to wool. This subject was mentioned by  Senator Little.  I agree, up to a point, with his approach to this question, but I should like to mention another feature of the wool situation. We are all tremendously disturbed about the wool industry and are wondering what can be done. One point seems to have been forgotten. The Australian Labor Party opposed the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission because we thought it would not function unless there were an opportunity for collective selling in the same way as there is collective buying. But the matter goes further than that. I believe that one of the problems of the wool industry arises from the fact that 80 per cent of wool in Australia is sold before it reaches the auction floor. I support my statement by referring to the 'West Australian' of 14th April last year in which there was a report of a meeting held in Melbourne. The report stated: 
The  chairman  of Squatting Investment Co.,  Mr J.  S. Balderstone, has estimated that 80 per cent of Australia's wool clip was now sold firm by wool traders before it was auctioned. 
If this was so, these exporters had a financial interest in seeing wool prices decline progressively, he told the annual meeting of the company in Melbourne. 
The directors believe that, because of this and other factors, the auction system for wool was likely to become inadequate. 
There was no point in spending millions  of  dollars on publicity and promotion only to see its effects dissipated by unfair restrictive bidding practices in buyer price control at what should be competitive auction. 

 Mr Balderstone said that the industry today faced the challenge of ensuring real value for its products, or facing the inevitability of an acquisition scheme. 
I think an acquisition scheme has lo come. A little later the report continued: 
The present price levels for wool were the lowest for 20 years and in terms of real money value, they were the lowest for 40 years. 
That was only the opinion of the  chairman  of directors of Squatting Investment Co., so a question on the subject was addressed to the Minister for Agriculture in the Western Australian Parliament. He was asked whether he had seen the report which I have just read out. He was asked also whether he would have investigations made to obtain further information concerning this allegation.  Mr Nalder,  the Minister for Agriculture, replied: 
Yes. 
Inquiries made from commercial interests in Western Australia indicate that the estimate of 80 per cent of Australia's wool clip was now sold firm by wool traders before it was auctioned is substantially accurate. 
For the benefit of those who do not understand what goes on so far as futures selling is concerned, the situation is that the wool is now sold before it hits the auction floor. In this way the brokers or buyers - whichever way one likes to put it, but whoever is doing the bidding - bid only to the price that they have agreed, that being the price for which they contracted to get the wool for their principals in England, Europe or some other place. They will refrain from bidding until the wool comes down to this price. What can we do about it? They want the price to be lower so that they can make a profit. This is the normal way for brokers to operate. Less than a week later the question was asked: What can we do? The Minister for Agriculture in Western Australia was asked: 
Does the action of selling wool firm by wool traders before it is auctioned contravene the Sales by Auction Act? 
Will hetake further action to have the matter investigated in an endeavour to obtain more details of this undesirable practice? 
This was the reply from the Minister: 
No. 
As there is no contravention of the Act, no action is envisaged. 
This is the sort of problem that has to be looked into. It is of no use for the Australian Wool Commission to fix prices and say that they will not get any lower. I ask honourable senators to imagine that they are wool brokers and that the Government states that it will make the price up to 36c, whatever the wool is sold for. Would they not buy it at the lowest possible price they could get knowing that the Government would make up the difference? Of course they would. This is the situation we are faced with and this is what is wrong with the wool industry. The Government will not get anywhere until it gets this sort of thing straightened out. 

 Mr President, there are other matters which have been canvassed in this debate that we ought to take up when we deal with the Estimates. That is the proper time to deal with them. I mentioned those 3 matters only because they had not been mentioned and I thought they should be looked at. I think we must be much more careful in our scrutiny as we go through the Estimates and I think that in view of the way the Estimates Committees functioned last year, they will go a long way towards achieving this objective. If we thoroughly investigate the expenditure which is put before us we will do a service to the country which will show up the anomalies that are occurring. At the same time we will wipe out some of the vested interest on the part of the people directly concerned. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  criticised the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, particularly the second clause which states that the Budget: 
. contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government . . . 
One can do no more,  Mr President,  than bring this forward in a general way. It is not possible to say that the Government ought to give another $lm, or $20m, or $1 00m. That would be ridiculous. One really has to look at the situation. That is why the amendment was couched in those general terms. If you talk to any Premiers or State Treasurers and ask them whether they are entirely satisfied with the way in which the Government distributed moneys in this Budget you will find that all of them have reservations about what they have been allocated. It is fatuous to compare this motion with a policy decision of the Australian Labor Party. It is of no use to say that we have as part of our policy a resolution calling for the abolition of the Senate and therefore you cannot take any notice of anything else that we have in our policy. This is nonsense. We try to make the Senate work. We are here in the Senate and while it exists it is our duty to see that it functions as well as possible. That is what we are going to do. That does not mean that we think the Senate ought to exist forever; it means that while we are here we have a responsibility to the people who put us here. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be added. 
I wish to bring only one point into this debate. I think honourable senators will appreciate the point that both the mover and the seconder of this proposed amendment voted against the proposal to alter the clause to the form in which it stands now. Both honourable senators wanted to leave the standing order as it stood; that is that the mover and the Minister first speaking shall not exceed 30 minutes each. They did not want anything struck out. Now when it has been struck out- 
lt is true. 
Yes, it is. 
Yes, I did. All we were voting on was whether the words should be left out. Neither  Senator Cant  who moved the amendment nor  Senator Willesee  who seconded it voted to leave the words out 1 think this is important. Now that the- words have been left out, the 2 honourable senators have suddenly adopted the idea that a way for them to achieve their objective is to return to the time of 30 minutes. That is what they wanted all the time. Of course there is the added advantage that only one Minister can claim 30 minutes in which to address the Senate. We have not appreciated the point which was brought forward by the Standing Orders Committee in all sincerity. The Committee considered that the time should be reduced to 20 minutes in order to meet all the requirements of the Senate's work load. I propose to vote against the amendment. 
On 30th March I placed on notice question No. 1028 which concerns the health of the people of Australia. I believe that it relates to a very important matter. Can the Minister for Health state, when I may expect a reply? 
I will get an answer for the honourable senator. 
In the Standing Orders Committee the arguments and reasons offered by  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Keeffe  and other speakers who believe that we should leave things as they are were duly put forward and duly considered. In this chamber we are faced with a change that is taking place in the work load that has to be handled each session. One of the problems with which we as a Senate are faced is that a tremendous amount of work is never completed. 
We are not considering that point at the moment. If we look at the notice paper for today we find 8 notices of motion listed under Business of the Senate, lt is doubtful that we will be able to deal with all of those. Under Government Business there are 15 orders of the day. They have to be dealt with because they are largely Bills. A few of them relate to reports. They will have to be dealt with, too. Under General Business the number of items put on the notice paper during this session has already reached 25. These are matters that should receive reasonable and considered attention. 
On the other hand, when urgency motions are introduced here only on extremely rare occasions do we reach a decision. Normally no division is taken on an urgency motion; we merely express our points of view. If we were to use adequately the time that is proposed to be allocated - we are not actually dealing with that point at the moment - and if we planned the debate properly, we would find that different speakers would take different points and each side would be able to cover any urgency motion in the time that was allocated for it by giving the first speaker 20 minutes and each other speaker 10 minutes. We never make a decision on an urgency motion. All we do, if the motion is carried, is decide to meet the next day 5 minutes earlier than we normally would. So, we do not achieve anything beyond that purely nebulous result. 
I am not saying that we should cut out urgency motions. 1 am suggesting that we should plan debates on urgency motions a little more carefully because of the work load that the Senate has to handle. I would agree with all the suggestions that are put forward by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Poyser  if we had nothing to do but to continue speaking. But we have other things to do. We have to attend to all the matters that come before us. That is extremely important. We should not simply say: 'We will have the urgency motions and let the debate on them continue for as long as we like*. 
The honourable senator cannot put a time limit on it because he said that the debate should just go on. The present limit is 3 hours, but he would like the debate to continue for as long as possible. The position is that we meet for only 19 hours each week. If we have a 3-hour debate on an urgency motion we chop off about 16 per cent of the time available for work. 
No, 1 am not suggesting that we chop them out altogether. I consider - I am not alone in this; the Standing Orders Committee took this view - that, if we look carefully at debates on urgency motions and plan them as I believe they can be planned, each and every  speaker  can make his contribution so that each side presents its whole case and makes its point. My attitude is based on that and the fact that the Senate has to deal with the business that comes before it. We have to do that properly and not, as we usually do, rush the business through on the last day, when somebody moves that half a dozen or more matters be discharged from the notice paper, and that is agreed to. When that happens, the opportunity to debate those matters goes, although they were regarded as tremendously important at the time they were put on the notice paper. Because time has gone by and they have not been dealt with, that is no reason why they should be scrubbed, as some matters are. lt is important that we consider this matter reasonably and take into account the points  Senator Cavanagh  has made. They would be legitimate points if we had unlimited time; but, when we have only a certain amount of time, we have to fit all the business into a pattern so that we can deal with it all. I believe that this is most important. 
Apparently  Senator Poyser  did not hear what I said about planning debates on urgency motions. I believe that if we do that we will find that we can deal properly with urgency motions. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is a considerable proportion ofthe 40 million milligrams of mercuric chloride used for testing milk each year in Victoria disposed of in the streams of that State. 
To what extent is this practice of disposing of this cumulative poison, which  is  dangerous to humans and fish life, also carried out in other States of Australia 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honorable senator's question is as follows: 
I am informed that mercuric chloride is used as  a  preservative in the quality testing of milk samples  in  Victoria. Normally such tests are carried out at milk factories. At the completion of the tests the residues and the remainder of the samples are discarded into the laboratory waste  system. 
In New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia, most milk factories use preservatives other than mercuric chloride. In Tasmania and Western Australia, most milk factories use mercuric chloride in milk testing. 
1 do not want to take up very much time in this debate but 1 want to emphasise a couple of points that have been mentioned casually. I think they should be given greater emphasis. I think all honourable senators are indebted to the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Murphy,  for introducing this urgency motion to enable a debate to take place on this extremely important subject of the implications for Australia of the world population explosion. 1 was one of those who heard Professor Ehrlich's address and saw him interviewed on television and I was impressed with what he said. Many years ago 1 felt that we could cope with any population that the world could produce by the proper use of our resources, particularly the development of plankton. I thought that perhaps we could rely on that as a sort of semi-synthetic food. But a couple of incidents shook my faith in the optimism I had felt about the future population of the earth. 
The first was that a number of biologists, anthropologists, social scientists and Others analysed the situation in order to determine the possible maximum population that the earth could support on the best of living standards. I do not mean mere existence: I mean having the best of everything that there was to have and really enjoy life There are many imponderables in such a determination and the experts have to leave out a lot of factors because otherwise it would take far too long to come to an adequate and correct conclusion. However, recently, with the development of computers, it has been found possible to get answers to questions in a very short time. This same problem has been fed into a computer in the United States of America. The people concerned were able to put into the computer a great deal more information than was available for earlier consideration by scientists and others interested in the subject. The interesting fact is that the computer, which was given more information than was available to the ordinary scientist, came to the conclusion that the earth could adequately and happily sustain 1,000 million people. This level of world population was passed 150 years ago. Therefore this is a pretty serious subject and we have to look into the situation because we have now trebled that number. 
While travelling to Canberra from Melbourne early one Tuesday morning with my friend  Senator Webster  1 was very interested to come across a book on this subject. I do not know whether he read it but his wife had read it. It is called The Doomsday Book' and was written by Gordon Rattray Taylor. It deals with the population explosion in the world. The author brought up 2 extremely important points and they are the ones I want to emphasise. Firstly he brought out the point that we are living on a spaceship. The important thing about this is that we are cut off from all other possible resources. We have only our own resources and we have to deal with them. When men are sent to the moon in a spaceship the air that they breathe is recycled, as is the water that is consumed. All these things are recycled. The same thing happens on earth. 
We have taken it for granted for centuries that the earth will recycle all the carbon monoxide produced by various living things. We have taken it for granted that the earth will recycle the water that is used. The author goes thoroughly into the situation. I do not have time to go deeply into it at the moment. I want only to point out how important this point is because we are using up the available oxygen at a tremendous rate. Since I mentioned oxygen I shall first quote from page 118 of this book. The author said: 
We are destroying oxygen today in far larger quantities than the world has ever seen. Every motor vehicle consumes oxygen. So do  motorboats  and snowmobiles. Every aircraft consumes still larger  quanties:  a 707 jet burns 35 tons of oxygen every time it crosses the Atlantic. . . . 
Imagine, 35 tons of oxygen, is used every time a jet crosses the Atlantic, and there are 3,000 jets in the air around the world at any one time. As the author says, that amounts to about 16 million tons of oxygen that we are losing each year and we cannot bring more back to this earth. Oxygen has to be recycled on the earth. The point is that if we wipe out our forests, pave our cities, cut out vegetation and do the other sorts of things that we are doing, the carbon monoxide cannot be recycled to produce oxygen. Only about 30 per cent of the oxygen is recycled in this way; the remaining 70 per cent comes from the sea. The micro-organisms in the sea recycle 70 per cent of the oxygen that the earth needs, and we are using oxygen much faster than it is being produced. That is why we are worried about the population explosion producing this significantly dangerous situation. We are polluting the rivers which run into the seas. We are polluting the seas and killing fish and the micro-organisms which recycle oxygen. 
I have referred to water and oxygen but we tend to forget about nitrogen. This is very important because it represents fourfifths of the air around the earth. Nitrogen is tremendously important and we are not recycling it to meet the rate at which it is being used. I will quote now what the author said on page 16 of his book. He said: 
All we have is a narrow band of usable atmosphere, no more than seven miles high, a thin crust of land, only one-eighth of the surface of which is really suitable for people to live on, and a limited supply of drinkable water, which we  conlinualy  re-use. And in the earth, a capital of fossil fuels and ores which we steadily run down, billions of times faster than nature restores it. These resources are tied together in a complex set of transactions. The air helps purify the water, the water irrigates the plants, the plants help to renew the air. 
We heedlessly intervene in these transactions. For instance, we cut down the forests which transpire water and oxygen, we build dams and pipelines which limit the movement of animals, we pave the earth and build reservoirs, altering the water cycle. So far, nature has brushed off these injuries as pinpricks. But now we are becoming so strong, so clever and so numerous, that they are beginning to hurt. 
I recommend that honourable senators read 'The Doomsday Book'. It is available from the National Library and is tremendously important. I think that  Senator Jessop  wants to say something on this subject so I will allow him 2 minutes. I would like to continue referring to this book but the opportunity is not available at this time. If  Senator Jessop  wishes to speak I will allow him the opportunity to do so. 
I propose to support the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Willesee.  I am interested in the foreshadowing of a further amendment by the Austrlaian Democratic Labor Party which has adopted almost the same type of tactic that has been followed in the past when we have dealt with Bills relating to post and telegraph charges. I do not wish to waste the time of the Senate by going through all of the charges that  Senator Gair  made against the Australian Labor Party, as the main Opposition, in the first part of his speech. But 1 think that a few points should be brought to the attention of honourable senators so that they may appreciate the Opposition's position, and to illustrate the way in which the Australian Democratic Labor Party., while endeavouring to make its points, has supported the Government and has not supported the Australian Labor Party. I do not want to go through the-  
I was quite prepared to give  Senator Gair  the courtesy of an uniterrupted - 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had mentioned that I proposed to speak in favour of the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee,  Before doing that I intend to take just a few moments to answer some of the propositions that were put forward by  Senator Gair  who spoke just prior to me. lt would take too long to trace through ali the situations which have developed over the years with regard to the Democratic Labor Party's support of the Government and its opposition to the Australian Labor Party, and the occasions when it has supported us against the Government. I wish, therefore, in the few minutes that I propose to devote to this question: to refer to the debate of 30th September last year on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1970 which sought to increase postal charges. On that occasion  Senator Willesee  moved an amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time' in these terms: 
Leave out all words after 'That', . insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and that in the opinion of the Senate a Joint Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into the .desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business . of the Post Office. 
Honourable senators will appreciate that the effect of moving that amendment was to remove the approval of the Opposition to the Bill as it was before the Senate. The journals of the Senate record that subsequent to the debate the question That the words proposed to be left out be left out' was put, that the Senate divided and that the result of the division was 22 in favour of the amendment and 24 in opposition to it. The 24 in opposition to the amendment were composed of government supporters and members of the Democratic Labor Party. 
 I wish , to refer to clause 3. The Committee will remember that when 1 was speaking to the 3 Bills I drew attention to the fact that the Commonwealth would be introducing this Bill in respect of the Territories. I pointed out that the Commonwealth rate of payroll tax in the Territories will continue to be  2i  per cent, which is at variance with the rate of 3i per cent to be levied by the States. In future the States may increase that rate. To my mind this creates an anomaly in that industries could set themselves up in the Australian Capital Territory or in other Territories in opposition to industries in the States and would pay a lower rate of payroll tax than that paid by industries in the States. Would the Minister care to comment on that aspect? 
 The legislation which is now before the Senate in the form of 3 Bills - the Pay-Roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill, the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Bill and the PayRoll Tax (Territories) Bill - has come into existence for the sole reason that the receipts duty which was invoked by the State governments in order to increase their revenue was declared invalid by the High Court of Australia. The Commonwealth Government, in trying to find some way of assisting the States, hit upon this rather dubious method of providing some finance. It is rather interesting to note that the Pay-Roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill is a very short one. It seeks to do away with the existing method of collection of payroll tax which has been in existence since 1941. When we come to a consideration of these 3 Bills we discover that not only is the Commonwealth handing over the collection of this tax to the States for their administration but also that it is retaining the tax in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. It is this feature which has produced a quite lengthy Bill - the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Bill - of 31 pages and 70 clauses and an explanatory statement running to 26 pages which explains what is involved in retaining this tax in the Territories. 
I think that in another place it was stated that this tax was introduced originally by a Labor government. It was not. It was introduced by the Menzies Government in 1941 because the Commonwealth wished to accept the responsibility of paying child endowment. At that stage Australia had just come through a depression and its finances were in a not very affluent state. The Government decided that the only way to obtain the necessary finance, which was estimated to be about SI 8m, was to impose a payroll tax, which would be a tax on industry, paid on amounts in excess of $2,000 per annum. The rate of payroll tax was fixed at that time at  2i  per cent. During the last 30 years this rate has obtained; there has been no alteration in it. But the amount of wages paid in industry has increased tremendously over the 30- year period, and last year $300m became available to the Commonwealth from payroll tax. On the other hand child endowment, although the population has increased and although the rates of child endowment have varied slightly, required only two-thirds of that amount - namely $200m. Obviously the other $100m must have been absorbed into the general revenue of the Government. 
When the receipts duty was found, by a High Court decision, to be invalid, it was decided that one way of providing the States with an opportunity of gaining extra money would be to make the payroll tax available to the States for their operation. This was considered and immediately it became evident what was to transpire. The States said that they would accept it and that they would increase the rate from 2) per cent to 31 per cent. In a full financial year the States will collect in excess of $100m above the amount collected previously. The Opposition is opposed to these Bills. We feel that it is quite wrong for taxing powers of this nature - income tax and payroll tax - to be in the hands of 6 separate authorities representing the States and of a Federal authority which, by the operation of the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Bill and the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Bill, will still have some control in certain areas. Therefore, as a whole, there is no flexibility such as there could have been under the previous arrangement. It is interesting to note that over the years the rate has not changed from  2)  per cent, but that immediately the collection of the tax was handed over to the States the rate was increased by an extra 1 per cent. This is an increase of 40 per cent. 
I have heard from industry over the last few years considerable criticism of the pay-roll tax. I think that senators generally would have been aware of opposition on the part of industry which felt that its operations were being penalised unduly by the imposition of a further tax which had to be incorporated in costs and passed on to consumers. No matter where taxation is imposed, its effect is passed on. There has been a fair amount of agitation to have the payroll tax discontinued. The Commonwealth is discontinuing it, but it is discontinuing it by handing it over to another group of authorities. This hardly makes for any improvement. It seems to us that these Bills are a rather desperate method on the part of the Government to provide extra finance to the States without actually giving them extra money. It is obvious that the States need more finance to carry on their various departments and services. We consider this is essential, but to give them a taxing authority which, to a certain extent, is almost uncontrollable is hardly the way to do it. 
We feel that the tax should have been left in the hands of the Federal Government. The excess of $100m of income over expenditure last year, we feel, possibly could be used adequately in the Federal sphere for social services. This is how any payroll tax should be used. Now the States will be using payroll tax to meet their obligations in all kinds of other spheres. It will not be confined only to social services, which was the original intention of the payroll tax. I feel that there would be no hesitation on the part of the Opposition to give support to the Government if it wished to pass on extra money to the States to meet their needs - not all their needs but those which have been determined to be necessary. We would support such a proposition. 
We do not feel that the way to provide extra finance is to remove ourselves from the responsibility which is ours in the Federal sphere, and to hand over the payroll tax to the various States to administer and to apply whatever percentage they feel is the right amount in view of the policy and the programme which each would adopt individually. We can see quite easily that various States, depending on their financial position, could wish to have different rates of payroll tax. This could cause difficulties to industry in the placing of its business in various States and I think it would be in contravention of section 92 of the Constitution. This should be kept in mind. 
The Opposition feels that this measure should not be passed. Now that it is before this chamber we have an opportunity to review this legislation in view of the fact that it could be an undesirable way of meeting the difficulties of the States. The 
States have their priorities with regard to their health services, their education programme, their welfare, and all of those other matters which are State responsibilities and which the direct taxing power will enable them to de:ermine in their own way. Whilst the payroll tax itself is being transferred to the States under this Bill, the Commonwealth has stated that it will continue to operate the export incentive scheme, although separate legislation will have to be introduced at a la:er date to see that this is implemented on the same terms as the previous arrangement. 
However, at the Premiers Conference in June the Commonwealth presented to the Slates this new arrangement whereby the Commonwealth retires from the field and the transfer of payroll tax enables the States to levy their own tax. lt has been stated already that the States agreed on a different rate from that which had been levied by the Commonwealth, tut, of course, this is one of the powers that the States had and they agreed to do this. The significance of the transfer to the States is that they do have within their constitutional authority this growth tax which they may now levy. The fact that there is now a closer relationship between the raising of revenue and the determining of its expenditure does enhance the possibility that the States will have more direct financial responsibility. 
Opposition will oppose it. 1 ask for the support of honourable senators in looking at this matter, not from the State point of view - the States are already feeling some difficulties in this regard - but from the point of view of the financial needs of the States from the Federal Treasury. This is the way the matter should be approached. On behalf of the Opposition I am expressing opposition to the 3 Bills. We will certainly ask for a division on the first Bill which proposes to terminate the Commonwealth payroll tax. I hope very much that we might be able to defeat the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can he give any reason why the Australian Apple and Pear Board is not prepared to consider and act on the carefully prepared submission presented to it by the West Australian industry regarding freight and other matters of vital concern to the growers? Will the Minister request the Minister for Primary Industry to examine immediately the submission that is at present in the hands of the Board, which claims that it would put the industry in each State on a much more satisfactory financial basis, and if necessary make a recommendation to the Board? * 
 Of course there should be. This money will not go to the producer. This is the important point. We are trying to help these industries. We are trying to allow them to have some income from which to pay their debts to the baker, the butcher and the other people in their country towns, which will keep the country town in existence. But if the money is being paid to these bigger organisations in the cities it is going out of the country towns, and if it is being paid to corporations under overseas control it is going out of Australia. That is what we are doing with our money under this deficiency payments scheme. For the life of me, I cannot see how the scheme will benefit any but a few people. It will not do anything considerable to ease the plight of the growers themselves. 
I notice in reading the report of the debate on the Bill in the other place that criticism was made of clause 4, which is the one that deals with the question of who owns the wool. Under the definition in that clause the producer is the person who owns the wool immediately after it is shorn. This was a question that was asked of the Minister in the other place. He gave his reply on that point. I quote from the report of the debate in the other place. It should be noted that the Minister said: 
Under the definition of producer in clause 4 I am told that the holder of a lien over wool or a mortgage over sheep is not the producer. Certainly that had not been the intention. In fact the farmer is the producer within the intention of the definition in clause 4. However it is also true that under some State laws relating to mortgages and liens the mortgagee or holder of the lien owns the v/ool immediately after it is shorn and so would come within the words of paragraph (a) of the definition of producer. 
However by the words following paragraph (c) of that definition the person having the equity of redemption is deemed to be the owner of wool or sheep, and this is (he farmer who is given the lien. Although it has been said that the holder of a lien or a mortgage is not the producer, under clause 9 of the Bill he may well have a right, so that the effect of what the honourable gentleman said is correct, but the way in which de said it is applied is technically incorrect. Clause 9 provides for the person who holds the lien the right to take payment in accordance with whatever obligation there might be under the lien. But the definition in clause 4 specifically relates to the producer, and it is not intended that that definition should refer other than to the farmer himself. 
This may be so, but how will it be judged when this legislation is put into operation? The wool broker or agent with whom a farmer is dealing will say: 'You have this money. You owe me a certain amount and I am taking it out. This is just going through my books in the ordinary way and I will take this amount.' This would be the normal procedure of any business house that finds money is available. I have known of instances such as that, as I am sure other honourable senators have. I am dealing with a very disturbing case in Western Australia at present. It concerns a farmer with a property that carries about 7,000 sheep and is worth - disregarding inflation values - about $180,000. But he is broke. He cannot sell his sheep. He tried the other day and sold 450 sheep but the return to him was 83c a sheep - I think he said - out of which he had to pay freight and other charges. 
The return from the sale would not meet the bill that he has from the local shire council. The shire council wants its money and he cannot pay it. He cannot sell anything to gain enough to pay his expenses. He sold 150 bales of wool at an average of 20c per lb. A lot of people would say that he did not do too badly, but in fact he could not even meet the expenses charged by the company financing him. Two years ago he expanded his operations because he was receiving reasonable prices and he expected them  &lt;o  continue. The expansion put him in difficulties and at present prices he will get practically nothing out of this scheme. His returns will go through the broker and the broker will get the lot. This really disturbs me about the operation of this legislation. 
I think it is worth while to read a letter which appeared in last Sunday's edition of the Western Australian 'Sunday Times'. I do not know the writer of the letter. I have heard of Collins Street farmers in Victoria and Pitt Street farmers in New South Wales. For all I know the writer of the letter may be a St George's Terrace farmer. He is  Mr E.  R. Pedlow of Claremont. He wrote: 
The staggering hypocrisy of the Federal Government in regard to the future of Australia's medium and smaller woolgrowers must he exposed. 
There is no possible chance that the average woolgrower will benefit from the 36c a pound legislation which the Commonwealth now proposes. 
The only people who will be protected are the brokers - the group which has constantly grown fat over the good years in primary industry. 
More than one million Australians depend for their livelihood on the wool industry. A microscopic number will receive real assistance under the Deficiency Payments Act now before the Parliament. 
In section 4 of the proposed Act it is stated that deficiency payments must go to the mortgagee or the holder of a bill of sale for the wool involved. 
In the current parlous condition of the wool industry there are literally thousands upon thousands of woolgrowers mortgaged to the hilt to broking houses. 
This means that the moneys paid by the Commonwealth, allegedly to help the woolgrower and to breathe life back into country towns, will never reach either him or the local trader. 
Instead it will be swallowed up in the broking house, becoming a book entry against the grower's mortgage. 
The claim of the Minister for Primary Industry that the legislation will assist the industry is a hollow mockery. 
The plan will not put one extra cent into the hands of the average woolgrower. It will not advance him one step in his struggle to stay on his property, keep his wife and children above the poverty level so many are now reduced to, or meet his bills in the nearby town. 
This shocking situation is being faced by farmers all over Australia. We propose to move an amendment and I shall now read the first part of it. 
The first part of the proposed amendment reads: 
At end of motion add:  but the Senate is of the opinion that: 
the one-year emergency grant moneys available under the Bill should be directed only to those bona fide wool producers, big or small, who are genuinely in need of emergency finance; 
Apparently there are some people who cannot understand simple language. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)  - If honourable senators will allow  Senator Wilkinson  to continue he may be able to explain it. 
The point is that the proposed amendment highlights the fact that there is no discrimination in this Bill in respect of people who are wool producers on a large scale and are on a very good thing with their other interests, as distinct from the people who are in need. 1 say particularly for  Senator Webster's  benefit that a person with 150 bales of wool or 7,000 sheep could still be in serious need, as judged by his taxation return. I am not saying that a person who owns a lot of sheep is necessarily able to live well. 
How it would be done is not spelt out. There is no need to put in any more. Our proposal relates to bona fide wool producers, big or small, who are genuinely in need of emergency finance. I am prepared to suggest 2 methods, and honourable senators opposite can make a choice. Other methods are open but I will not discuss them now. I do not have to do so. The first possible method is on the basis of a taxation return. A second possible method is on the basis of a balance sheet certified by an accountant. This would show the position of a farmer. Either method would show whether a wool producer is in need. Other methods could be used, but my concern is about the big corporations who are to take out large amounts of the deficiency payments which should be going to producers in need. I think I have said enough about the first clause and now pass to the next part of the Bill. 
I am not the only one who is objecting to this Bill. I have been subjected to a considerable amount of pressure from various groups, particularly from the private buyers. The private buyers of wool feel that this Bill places them under a disability and that they could be forced out of business. I do not think that the Government is dodging the issue or that it is opting for the auction system, or is not very interested about what happens to the private buyers. There are certain difficulties in drafting a Bill which would meet the situation as far as private buyers are concerned and which would give exactly the same provision for people selling through a private buyer as those who sell on the auction system. The Bill tries to meet this situation in the best way it can. 
In the case of the private buyer the Bill makes a payment on the net value to the grower and the deficiency payment percentage will be applied to that. In the case of the auction system the deficiency percentage will be worked out and paid on the gross amount. To put the situation in terms of figures I ran out a couple of examples which may be of interest. The values I have chosen are not entirely fictitious and they are a reasonable average. Let us say that the bale of wool at an auction will bring$90. The deficiency payment at present looks as though it will be about 20 per cent. Therefore, the amount that would be paid on the percentage basis would be SI 8. This would give a total of $108 less the charges that would be made by the broker for selling the bale of wool. We could say that this charge would be around about S8. This figure is not absolutely accurate but it will illustrate my point. If  Senator Prowse  is writing down the figures I am giving I will be prepared to read them again if he so wishes. The price paid for the bale is $90 and 20 per cent is the deficiency payment rate. This would mean a deficiency payment of $18 would be paid on the gross amount. This makes a total of SI 08 less $8 for charges, giving the grower Si 00. 
If the same bale of wool were sold to a private buyer he should give the grower $90 for it. His charges are only about half of what other broker houses charge. The percentage would be the same but it would be calculated on only $86 and not on $90 because $4 would be payment for charges. Therefore Si 7.20 would be paid by way of deficiency payment which makes a total of $107.20 or, allowing for a deduction of $4 in charges, would be a return to the grower of Si 03.20, which is $3 more than the grower would have received had he sold his bale by the auction system. 
I pointed this out when I was approached by the private wool buyers and they challenged my figures on the basis - and I ask honourable senators to listen to this - that they would not pay S90 for the bale. They said that they would pay only what the grower would receive if the bale were sold at auction. In other words, they would only pay on the basis of $86. If we work on the basis of $86, the grower will be down because he will receive only $98.40 as opposed to the $100 he would receive if he sold his wool by the auction system. The private buyers contend therefore that this arrangement will drive them out of business because the grower will get more from the auction system and the private buyers will not be able to compete. 
Correct. 
No. I have not. The honourable senator did not listen thoroughly. 
Excuse me,  Senator. You  did not listen carefully because 1 said 'if he paid S90 But the private wool buyer is not paying $90. He refuses to pay S90. That is the point of the whole of my argument. This is where the private buyer is wrong in his assumption. He is trying to get something extra lor himself out of this compared with what he would get if he was paying the auction price. The point is that the private buyer could  then  sell to a miller at  a  lower price than when the wool goes through auction. I think this is quite different. 
The honourable senator can pick up the point later if he wishes to. 
I would now like to deal with a couple of other points. I want to discuss the rest of my amendment. As I have pointed out, the disturbing feature of the Bill is, I believe, that  it  will not help the wool growers because it does not go far enough. One of the important things that we ought to be doing if we are looking at wool is to give some thought to the acquisition of the whole clip. This is not an idle thought which has been put forward by the Opposition. All growers' organisations and even  Sir William  Gunn have come around to the point of saying that we ought to have an acquisition of the clip and that we will have to get down to it eventually. We have to acquire the clip, appraise it and market the whole of it. We must have control of the whole system. 
I was astounded by what was said by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who at the moment is the Acting Prime Minister, at a national conference in Perth on 3rd April of last year. He said: 
I do not accept the view that is frequently put forward that the Government should take over from farmers and their industry organisations the responsibility for planning the production and distribution of their output. The feeling :hal the Government should do this is quite strong in some quarters, and indeed is quite strong in the minds of many farmers. 
As I said, the Minister said this in April of last year and he has not changed his mind over the ensuing months. He still says the same sort of thing. Yesterday's 'Australian' newspaper under the headline of 'Time running out, says Anthony' states: 

 Mr Anthony was speaking at a meeting of the National  Press Club in Canberra. 
The article went on to say that he: 
. warned the wool industry yesterday that time was running out for it to find solutions to its present problems. 
The article then quoted the Minister as saying: 
If at the end of 12 months we have a situation where stockpiles have built up to a million bales or mure, then the industry can't expect that sort of situation to go on continuously without making some adjustments'. 
The quotation continued: 
And if the adjustments mean trying to restrain the SUpplY of wool to the market, then that is what they must look at'. 
Further on the article stated: 
He said there was a need for supply management in the industry but he did not believe iti telling it what it must do. 
For goodness sake, the Acting Prime Minister said 2 days ago that he does not believe that we ought to tell the industry what to do. However around Australia we have a collection of wool growers who, apart from those farmers organisations which do meet, are largely disorganised, and do not have control of their industry. They do not know what to do. I admit that the Government is doing its best to give them advice, but we cannot get the industry to make up its mind as to what it ought to do. This is tremendously important because the Government must take the responsibility for what should be done in this respect. 
I think that we should also look at the state of affairs in which we are becoming afraid of the wool situation because of the low price of wool. The wool situation is such that at the end of each year we do not finish up with a surplus of wool. I think that we need to look at some of the facts. I have here an analysis of the situation since 1963. I am not prepared to doubt the figures that have been given to me. They can be checked. On the basis of this investigation, to give an idea of what th-- situation is we should look al wool apparel which is what we are concerned with in Australia. The use of wool in apparel has dropped only minutely since 1963. The use of synthetics has risen from 8 per cent to 20 per cent. The first point to note is that more apparel has been sold. The other point is that the rise in the use of synthetics from 8 per cent to 20 per cent has been at the expense of cotton, the use of which in apparel has dropped since 1963 from 63 per cent to 54 per cent. Cotton, not wool, is involved. Wool finishes up at the end of the year without a surplus. We are being conned into accepting the fact that the value of wool has reduced to this ridiculous figure that we now have. The wool millers want wool. They need it for apparel. Wool is recognised as the most valuable commodity that can be used in an article of apparel. Wool has tremendous advantages. It is nol for us, I believe, to denigrate the position that the wool industry should hold. What we need to do is look at what is happening with respect to the selling of wool. 
I am very concerned that 80 per cent of Australia's wool is sold before it gets to the auction room floor. I mentioned this in a previous speech. This is a tragedy, I think. The brokers and the wool buyers have contracts for wool which has not been shorn. Then they obtain the wool at the price for which they have been given a contract. No amount of buying by the Australian Wool Commission will avoid this until we gel to the situation where a stockpile of wool is established and people want apparel wool when none is otherwise available. When this situation arises we may have a chance of breaking the current practice. But we need to go more thoroughly in our research to find out what is happening as far as futures are concerned. 
We have advocated for a long time - this proposal does nol appear in the Bill at all - thai a better appraisal should be made of the situation in the marketing system. We ought to have core testing. Incidentally, it is extremely interesting that in every sale in Australia about three-quarters of wool is core tested after auction before it leaves the auction floor. So do not say that we cannot do core testing. This can be done. It is being done. The machine which does this testing will core test 200 bales an hour. This machine is in operation right  now. Wool is being core tested to determine whether the judgment of wool buyers formed on the basis of opening up the top of a wool bale is correct. We al] know that when the value of a bale of wool is assessed, the accuracy of the assessment has a plus or minus 15 per cent factor. In core testing the accuracy factor is plus or minus 2 per cent only. This is an important fact. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I do not wish to delay the Senate any longer. From my remarks, honourable senators will see the reason for the second part of the amendment that I have moved. This part reads: 
the emergency finance should be complemented by legislation to: 
establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip; and 
implement a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme to apply to those areas of wool production and marketing which are in urgent need of improvement and assistance. 1 feel that part (2) (b) of the amendment does not require any elaboration from me or from anybody else because it is so obvious that primary producers and particularly those people in the wool industry are in need of this progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme. No consideration is being given to this need. 1 do not say that all that is required can be paid for through this Bill. But no indication is given in this legislation that the Government is concerned about this matter. I think that the Country Party has been quite right in its insistence, and in many of its determinations, that there should be acquisition. It is concerned about rehabilitation. It is concerned about reconstruction. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has expressed the same views. We all ought to be concerned about adding these words to the motion for the second reading. I feel that if my amendment is accepted we really will give expression to our belief that more should be done than is being done by this Bill for the wool industry. The provisions of this Bill operate for 12 months only. 1 believe that at the end of that 12-month period we will find that this legislation has done nothing to alleviate the distress of the wool producers for whose benefit it was designed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)  - Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
I could say that this further amendment surprises me, but it does not. I am really astounded that the Australian Democratic Labor Party should bring forward this amendment when it has just helped to defeat an amendment which would have done the same thing but in relation to the wool industry. That is the only industry with which this Bill is concerned. Let us look at what the Democratic Labor Party has proposed in its amendment. It uses the words:   . . to woolgrowers and other primary producers adversely affected by the grave recession in the rural industries . . . 
This amendment is spread across the fishing industry, the banana industry and the pineapple industry. It is spread across every rural industry. The DLP is trying to introduce this amendment after we have tried to do the same sort of thing in our amendment but only for the wool industry. What is the special financial authority which is proposed by the DLP? At the present time the Commonwealth Banking Corporation is a facility which can organise this assistance. Existing authorities are operating which can help with any of this assistance. But the Australian Labor Party did not have the support of the Democratic Labor Party. Our amendment could have been presented to the Government as an expression of the opinion of this chamber of what was wrong with the rural industries in Australia, particularly the wool industry with whichwe are dealing. A little further down in its amendment the Democratic Labour Party mentions discounted interest rates. We have talked about discounted interest rates every time we have talked about rural matters.  I  have said repeatedly that there should be moratorium protection, and that is inherent in the amendment which has just been turned down by the Democratic Labour Party. That amendment reads in part: 
the emergency finance should be complemented by legislation to - 
implement a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme to apply to those areas of wool production. . . . 
That is what we have tried to do. and the Democratic Labor Party will not support our proposal. It comes in here with this sort of amendment and expects us to take on something which only demonstrates its insincerity. If we were to support this amendment what would happen is that the Democratic Labor Party supporters would say that they were the only people doing anything about these matters. We have already proposed an amendment which the DLP has turned down. The situation is that we will not support this amendment because of the insincerity of the people who have proposed it. I leave it at that. 
First of all, I wish to refer to the interpretation of 'producer' in clause 4 of the Bill. I noted what the Minister had to say about this matter in his reply to comments which were made during the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. Clause 4 reads:  the producer', in relation to wool, means - 
except where paragraph (b) or (c) of this definition applies - the person who owns the wool immediately after it is shorn 
I noted that the Minister had some doubt in his mind as to where this matter would definitely finish and that he had received assurances from, I understand, the wool brokers that every facility would be made available to pass on the deficiency payment to the grower wherever possible. I do not wish to pursue the matter any further if that is a correct interpretation of what the Minister said. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer is in relation to the whole of clause 9. The position is very awkward insofar as growers who are in debt to brokers and have accounts with brokers is concerned, ft could be that a number of needy growers owe a very considerable amount at the lime a deficiency payment is made on the wool they have produced. I am concerned about the deficiency payment not going to the growers. This follows on clause 4. It is just a further interpretation in that clause 9 deals with the persons who are entitled to the deficiency payment. 
Yes, I do know of a grower who would have the whole of his wool cheque as well as the deficiency payment involved. I take it the Minister is saying that the broker will, as far as possible, separate the deficiency payment from the wool cheque and that this will enable the grower to have some further income on which to live and which will help him with other debts. I think the Minister gave me that sort of assurance. 
The third matter to which 1 wish to refer is in relation to clause 13, which is, of course, the complicated clause which determines the percentage rates of deficiency payments. I drew attention lo this matter in my earlier speech. 1 was very interested to hear from the Minister that the Minister for Primary Industry proposes to bring out an explanatory document which will be made available to growers everywhere. If I can have an assurance from the Minister on those 3 points I will be satisfied. 
I was not saying that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, follows the question asked earlier by  Senator Young  about the sale of properties that farmers have been forced to leave. Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate request the Treasurer to give consideration to lowering the age of eligibility for the age pension to 60 years for farmers who have to leave their farms at that age due to economic circumstances? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will refer that question to the Treasurer, as I must. 
Before I deal with the Bill I would like to endorse the request made yesterday by  Senator Devitt  that we have more time available to consider Bills before they are brought on for debate. I did not take the opportunity to say anything about it yesterday because I thought I would be dealing with this Bill fairly shortly. I do not want the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to think I am being destructively critical. I am trying to be constructive. This Bill was introduced only last Thursday. We had Estimates Committee meetings on Thursday night and I attended another committee meeting on Friday. This week I had to come over from the west on Monday night. On Tuesday I was faced with the fact that this Bill was coming on for debate. It had passed through the House of Representatives only on Tuesday of last week so that there was not very much time to study it, particularly in view of other requirements of the Senate. 
The Bill itself is not particularly complex. The amendment that is now being circulated will be moved by me at a later stage. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  represents in the Senate the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  In presenting the Bill the Minister pointed out that it seeks to make a number of alterations to the operation of the collection of income tax, particularly with regard to deductions. For example, the deduction allowed for the education expenses of a full time student is to be increased from $300 a year to $400 a year. As the Minister pointed out, a time limit is imposed for a full time student and a qualification may then operate for deductions on behalf of the person making out his income tax return. The time limit is to be raised from 21 years to 25 years of age. Several similar amendments are proposed but T will not detail them all. 
Honourable senators will recall that in each of the last 4 years when speaking in debates on this legislation I have drawn attention to the fact that the income tax schedule is not being varied sufficiently to enable people in the lower income group to get the benefit they were receiving 20 or 25 years ago. At that time income tax commenced, having regard to purchasing power, at a higher level of income than at present. No change has been made in this regard although wages throughout Australia are increasing. Higher taxation is involved because the schedule remains unaltered. 1 was interested to find this point brought out in an article by  Mr Leslie  Bury, a former Treasurer, which appeared in the 'National Times' of 8th to 13th November. The article has come to my attention only today. I will quote from it a couple of paragraphs which support my argument that the schedule ought to be changed for the benefit of the lower income groups. In the article, which occupies a full page,  Mr Bury  wrote: 
What were relatively high incomes in money terms a few years ago have now become in reality only modest incomes, but are still taxed as if they were high. 
That is the point I was just making and it is supported by theformer Treasurer. He went on: 
In the June quarter this year the average weekly earnings of all adult males was $89.70 per week, or some $4,500 a year. Concessional deducations vary with individuals, but say a man has a taxable income of $4,000, he will have to pay $677.30 and the special levy on top. For every dollar extra he earns he pays 31.9c until $4,800 then 34.5c in the dollar and so on. As income increases to the level of the professional groups the progression rises steeply. Many are painfully aware of its incidence. Clearly this state of affairs does 2 things. It weakens incentive and it makes Australia a less attractive country to work in. . . . The malevolent facts about the effect of our income tax situation were all publicised 2 years ago. 
I have been talking about them for 4 years at least.  Mr Bury  went on: 
The policy included in the Government election programme in 1969 included a promise to reduce personal income tax on middle and lower incomes over 3 years by $200m. 
That view is very important because it was put by a supporter of the Government who is a former Treasurer. The next point I wish to emphasise has been raised on a number of occasions but it does not seem to register at all. I refer to the deductions allowed for a spouse, children, payments to hospital benefits funds, education and insurance expenses and matters of that sort. Let us take an example from the First Schedule and consider the deduction of $312 for a spouse. On incomes of $16,000 and over but not exceeding $20,000 the rate applicable is 62.4c. I appreciate that this is an old argument which the Minister has heard many times, but it is no less valid for that. It means that a person in the high income bracket claiming a deduction for a spouse will be relieved of taxation equal to 62.4c multiplied by 312. Let us now take a person in the bracket referred to by  Mr Bury  - $4,000 and not exceeding $4,800. The deduction he would receive would equal 31.9c multiplied by 312. Coming still further down the scale to the basic wage end, a person in the range of $2,000- $2,400 receives a deduction of 19.5c mul tiplied by 312. This shows that a person in a high income group is getting a very considerable deduction in income tax because he is on the higher rate. 
In order to fill in the last 24 minutes of this evening's proceedings this Bill has been brought on out of its right order, but that is not objected to. I think we might be able to dispose of the Bill in the time available, unless we have considerable delay whichI do not envisage. 1 shall take only a few minutes, but I think the points that I want to bring out in regard to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation are important. The legislation was introduced originally in the House of Representatives on 3rd May 1956. If we look back to 1956 to ascertain the Government's idea in introducing the Bill we find two very interesting things. I have wondered how an Export Payments Insurance Corporation could come into being as a result of some legislative thinking on the part of the Government without any pressure being applied from some quarter or other.I notice on page 1761 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 3rd May 1956 that  Mr McEwen,  the then Minister for Trade and Industry, said in his second reading speech: 
It- 
That is the Government-  has also been impressed by the case for such an arrangement that has been placed before it by a wide spread of commercial and industrial interests. 
Later he said: 
For some time past the Government has received representations from Australian exporters and manufacturers who have claimed that export payments insurance would greatly help them in building up export trade. 
It is quite easy then to follow the purport of the legislation at that time because obviously the normal banking interests did not wish to take on this type of insurance cover. In exporting to countries on a long term payment basis realisation of the amount owing might extend as far as10 years and the exporters were not able to carry this themselves. Banks, insurance companies and other normal financial agencies which normally covered such a situation were not willing to take a risk when they were dealing with another country whereas they might have taken a risk of a similar nature within the borders of Australia. So representations were made to the Government that it should be prepared to bring into being the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation which would operate up to a limit of $50m. 
It is interesting to see the purpose of the Corporation which was further mentioned in the speech made by  Mr McEwen  on 3rd May 1956 and which is reported on page 1 764 of Hansard. He said: 
Marketing boards which export as owners of the product and all those merchants or organisations which export wool, wool tops, grains and the whole range of primary products will be able to insure with the corporation against the risks I have mentioned . . . 
In the introducing of the present Bill, the Minister said that the purpose of the legislation was largely to assist the exporters of capital goods. But we find that originally the legislation was intended to meet the needs of exporters of primary products. It is very hard to see why one would need to get insurance cover over a long period on, say, wheat, which is exported and eaten very quickly. However, I understand that the wool industry is using EPIC to cover quite a number of its transactions at the present time. I mentioned during the debate on the Export Insurance Payments Corporation Bill in May of this year that the Corporation has increased in importance since 1956. The Corporation began operations with a maximum coverage of $50m. In 1959 this amount was increased to $10Om; in 1964 it was increased to $150m; in 1965 it was increased to $200m: in June of last year it was increased to $300m; and in May of this year it was increased to $500m. When one speaks of S500m one is getting into pretty big money. 
The balance sheet of the operations of EPIC indicates that it has been able to make a reasonable coverage over this period. The balance sheet also shows that the Corporation has been able to operate with a slight profit although - and this was important in the original Bill - it was supposed not to do anything more than just cover expenses. The Corporation has been able to do this with very little risk. Indeed, it has been able to cover its risk over these years. It has been shown by practice that this is very good business. I can quite understand what has happened. Business houses - banks and insurance companies - have seen this business going away from them and further representations have been made to the Government. In my opinion, this is the reason why the Government has decided to amend the Act so as to enable private business houses such as banks, insurance companies and other organisations which can lend money to be covered by the Government. The Government will now insure those lending establishments against the risks that they are going to take. To me this seems to be a surprising changeover which apparently was not envisaged in May of this year, because the Act is to be amended quite considerably. 
As far as the export arrangements are concerned and the advantage that they give to exporters, I am in favour, and so is the Opposition, of the Bill. The measure will assist exporters in providing Australian credit overseas. This is very important. But there is some doubt in my mind as to why these alterations are to be made. 
The alteration that is to be made is in respect of buyers' credit, which will enable buyers overseas to obtain cover here, provided there is a certain percentage of Australian content in the goods that are sold abroad. An interesting situation arises here. An overseas firm which is manufacturing goods some part of which has been made in Australia can obtain from Australia some cover in order to insure the products that it is making for sale somewhere else. The same situation applies if an Australian company brings in some goods and then sells its product overseas, provided there is a certain amount of Australian content. The Minister explained this requirement in his second reading speech. 
The Opposition feels that the provisions of the Bill are a worth while extension of the operation of the Act. However, I felt that some points had to be brought out. and I have done that. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport 1 should say,  Mr President,  that already 2 related questions are on the notice paper but the matter is now becoming urgent. Has the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner decided to use concrete sleepers for future railway works and maintenance in place of jarrah sleepers? Is the Minister aware that a decision such as this will seriously affect employment in the timber industry in Western Australia? Will he inform the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner of the serious repercussions that would flow immediately from such a decision? 
I wishto make a short personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I would not take up the time of the Senate on what appears to be a minor point but. unfortunately, last week I was reported in the Western Australia Press with a statement which 1 was supposed to have made in this chamber. I immediately drafted a letter to correct the statement which appeared in the newspaper and which said, quoting from my speech on the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill when I was dealing with some farmer: 
He sold 150 bales of wool at an average of 20c per lb. 
When I checked the Hansard report I found that this is actually the way in which I had been reported. What I said at the time was '26c'. I immediately telephoned the Hansard office but I found that the time allowed for correction to proof copies had expired and the printing of the permanent copy had been made. The only way I can right this matter is by bringing forward a personal explanation. What I said - this was substantiated by other people who heard me because the debate was broadcast - was that this person sold 150 bales of wool at an average of 26c per lb. I just want to put the matter straight. 
-I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for 
Primary Industry: What funds were made available in the year 1970-71 for war service land settlement carry-on finance? How much of this is being used for legitimate settler assistance and is any being used for other purposes? What funds have been made available in the Budget this year for war service land settlement carry-on finance? 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many houses were built in Western 
Australia during the period from 1st January to 30th September 1971 and, during the same period, how many successful applications for the Commonwealth Home Savings Grant were made. 
Does the Minister consider that the ceiling limit of $17,500 for a house, in order to qualify for a grant is adequate for all States of Australia, and why is each State not treated individually according to its finance needs, based on real estate and building industry costs. 
Is the Minister reviewing the current ceiling level of $17,500 in respect to Western Australia; if so, when does he expect a decision to be made if not, would he be prepared to do so in the near future, so  as  to enable more young couples to  benefit from the Scheme, particularly in Western Australia. 
 My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Yesterday in reply to a question by  Senator Murphy  he said: 
. the offence contained in the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act is an offence of intercepting a communication in its passage over the telephone system. 
Does this mean that telephone tapping which could be done without an interception of the message is quite legal, could be done at any time, and would not require ministerial permission? 
On 6th October 1971 legislation was assented to which transferred to the States from the Commonwealth the power to impose payroll tax. It was evident at that time that it would be necessary for further machinery legislation to be introduced to cover matters not included in the legislation which was assented to. This Bill- the Pay-Roll Tax (State Taxation of Commonwealth Authorities) Bill 1971  -  is a piece of that machinery legislation. Another piece of it was presented this morning in the form of the Export Incentives Grants Bill 1971. It could be that other forms will have to be brought into line in order to expedite the imposition by the States of a payroll tax. 
When payroll tax was imposed by the Commonwealth its authorities were liable to pay the tax, but it was specifically provided that it would be payable only to the Commonwealth. With the handing over of payroll tax to the States it became obvious that the legislation would not cover the Commonwealth authorities. The legislation which is now before the Senate simply provides that the States may now tax certain Commonwealth authorities. A list of the Commonwealth authorities the States may not tax was incorporated in Hansard by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  during his second reading speech. I do not think it is necessary to go through the names of the instrumentalities covered by this legislation. The interesting point, as I have said, is that the States will have the authority to impose payroll tax on the Commonwealth instrumentalities listed. Whether they will in fact do so is their prerogative. I have no doubt that they will very smartly impose  a  payroll tax on these instrumentalities.T he Opposition has no objection to this legislation and is prepared to give it a speedy passage through this chamber. The Government has the Opposition's assurance that it will not oppose this matter. 
 Last Thursday when speaking on the Payroll Tax (State Taxation of Commonwealth Authorities) Bill 1971 1 drew attention to the fact 'hat it would be necessary to introduce Bills to carry on the legislation which had been involved in the collection of payroll tax. This power has now been passed over lo State instrumentalities. Some things still have to be done in this regard by the Commonwealth. A matter which 1 mentioned specifically, related to the Bill which we are now discussing - the Exports Incentive Grants Bill 1971. If we look at the Bill we will notice that it consists of some 36 clauses and, without question, it is a very complex Bill. 
If the honourable senator has another look he will see that it has 36 clauses. It was the clauses to which I referred. As I was saying when 1 was interrupted, this complex Bill is part of the original Payroll Tax Assessment Aci. lt was by means of this legislation that the Government achieved assistance for export industries. There is some doubt whether this assistance will be possible now that the Commonwealth has given away the provisions of payroll tax and there is doubt whether this is the proper way to introduce incentives. But this Bill proposes to carry on the legislation which was functioning under the previous Bill. 
Although, us I say. this is a complex Bill we do not necessarily have to discuss it. This mat'er was discussed when it was first introduced. But I point out - I think the Minister mentioned this - that the terms of this Bill will apply until the end of the financial year 1972-73. At that stage we will have to have another look at the way in which wc are going to provide incentives to export industries. Some anomalies have occurred in the opera' ion of this Bill. I do not propose to go into that situation. 
These matters will come up when we are dealing with the new incentives which will have to be introduced in one or two years' time. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill as it only carries on the very worth while legislation which, up to this point, has been in operation. On behalf of the Opposition I give this Bill the speedy passage for which the Minister has asked. 
askedthe Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will the Minister consider lowering the age of eligibility for an age pension to 60 years for fanners who at this age have to leave their farms because of economic circumstances. 
 I want to say something in support of the Estimates Committee system. What I have to say is not unqualified support of the system. The system was introduced last year. It was used for consideration of the 1970-71 Budget, for consideration of the little Budget which was introduced this year- and for the 1971-72 Budget which was introduced in August. We have made some very valuable gains as a result of the use of the system. I refer now to one of the most important gains. As a result of last year's operations Estimates Committee E recommended that each department should submit its report for the information of the members sitting on the various committees. Last year one or two departments produced a report on the amount of money which it would spend. I think it is true to say that this year each department has produced such a report. This has been of great value in our investigation and in our criticism of the estimates presented to us. This most valuable gain came out of nothing other than the. Estimates Committee system. Another very important gain was that due perhaps to the courtesy of the Minister and certainly with the approval of the  Chairman  of the Committee we could obtain directly from departmental officers replies to our questions. This was a most valuable introduction of information, by comparison with the way in which we operated previously in the Committee of the Whole when, as has been said already this evening, . all information came by means of a scribbled note which had to.be. interpreted by the Minister and then given to the Committee. These are 2 valuable and important gains which have resulted from the Estimates Committee system. 
On the opposite side of the scale we have the disability that the public is not aware of what is going On, to the extent that it was when the Estimates were discussed by the Committee of the Whole because under the previous system the public could sit in the gallery and hear the debates, the questions' and' the interest being taken by honourable senators in the Estimates. Another bad feature of the new system is that we find that it is not possible to attend meetings of 2 committees which are sitting simultaneously. Each may be examining departments in which we are 
Interested. For example, I am very interested in primary production. Therefore I like to attend meetings of the committee which examines the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry. I am also very interested in the operations of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Having been a member of the planning section for 25 years. I know something of the way in which that Department operates. I like to attend meetings of the committee which examines the estimates of that Department. I could not attend the meetings of both committees because quite frequently they sat on the same day. Last Thursday I was able to attend the meeting of the committee that was dealing with the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I sat in all afternoon, but it did not discuss that part of the estimates about which 1 wished to question departmental officers. The committee was dealing with the broadcasting side of the Department. I wanted to deal with the expenditure of funds of PMG operations apart from radio and television. 
The system is still in the experimental stage, lt does occur to me that in this experimental period we should try to take into consideration some of the good features of the system and try to get over some of the bad features of the system. I wonder whether it would be possible to have only one committee operating at a time, all meetings to be held in this chamber. The public would know where the meetings were being held. Certain senators are allocated to a committee and it is their responsibility to be present at meetings of that committee, but other senators could be present also and could ask questions, through the  Chairman,  of the Minister and get replies from the departmental officers. I think that if we could do some of these things we could make the system operate much more efficiently than it does now. We could get the information that we require for a careful and thoughtful study of the Estimates. I think it would be of great value to the way in which we consider the Estimates each year. 
1 appreciate what the Minister has said. However, I notice that in his second reading speech he said: 
If the fall were to average 6c per lb, the additional commitment for deficiency payments would be about $6Sm.  1 know thai we are expecting a more confident position to prevail in the wool industry at the coming sales, but the Minister did not really give me an answer to my question. Why was $30m chosen? Why was it not a little more? Was $65m given any consideration? Can the Minister provide me with the answers to those questions? 
I want to refer to division 870- Capital Works and Services, PostmasterGeneral's Department, for which an appropriation of $255m is proposed this financial year. I tried to bring this matter up during the sittings of Estimates Committee B but  I  attended a sitting all afternoon and it did not reach this point in the Estimates. 1 was not appointed to that Committee so I was not able to bring the matter up then.  J  want to make a point about this appropriation of $255m for capital works and services. What disturbs me is that it is difficult to ascertain what particular works will be carried out with this money. 1 have looked very carefully through the Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme and have looked over the questions asked of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and the officers of the PostmasterGeneral's Department at the Estimates Committee hearing on 25th November to see whether this matter was ventilated. The nearest approach to what 1 have in mind was brought forward by  Senator Byrne  who seemed to have the same idea but did not take the matter as far as I propose to take it. 
I am concerned that under the new arrangement of the trust operation, the Post Office as far as possible carries out its works programme, and makes payments for wages and salaries, superannuation, furlough and interest out of its income. We then find from the estimates that it is $255m short of the amount required to meet all its commitments this financial year. What disturbs me is that there is no way in which we can examine the estimates of the Post Office but we are asked today to approve an amount of $255m. At the same time we are asked to neglect the income that the Post Office receives for its postal services, estimated to be $23 2m this year, and for telecommunications, estimated to be $586m. That makes a total of $81 8m. Added to the sum of S255m the grand total is $ 1,073m and we are asked to let this go without consideration. 
I am quite prepared to believe - I personally have seen this happen - that the Post Office carefully works out the programmes that it is required to carry out. I have been engaged in preparing quite a number of estimates and I know to what degree they are very carefully sifted. The distrubing thing is that we may be progressing too fast in the Post Office field. Perhaps we are installing a lot more exchanges than are absolutely necessary. We are changing over a lot of country manually operated exchanges to automatic exchanges and perhaps this is not absolutely necessary. We are indulging in a lot of expansion and extending STD facilities which may not be absolutely necessary. The Post Office does make some mistakes, lt has installed some things which ia:er have been found to be not of the advantage anticipated when they were first installed. However, there is no way in which we can examine these estimates and make a careful examination of what is to take place. 
From my limited contact with what went on in the planning section of the Post Office 1 recall that some years ago it decided to install equipment which would enable the public to have automatic telephones in motor cars so that people could dial into a central place and be connected to any subscriber in Australia. This equipment was installed in every capital city but so far as I know nobody took advantage of it because it was very costly. That was one mistake. 1 recall another instance when we were developing Kwinana in Western Australia as an industrial centre. The Post Office put down a cable at a cost of $600,000 and when the work was completed it was found that there was only enough traffic to warrant 4 lines. That was another mistake. There has been a lot of criticism of the letter sorting machine at the Sydney Mail Exchange. It is said that there are faults in it and that the wrong type of equipment was selected. Also, there have been a number of complaints about the Ericsson type of telephone and the crossbar switch gear which is being installed throughout Australia. It is suggested that perhaps we should have done belter and this criticism comes from engineers. 
What  I  am trying to show,  Mr Chairman,  is that we are being asked to agree to this expenditure without hearing any explanation of why it is necessary. We are asked to pass expenditure of $255m. Not only that, we are asked to agree to a total expenditure of $ 1,073m when we do not know whether it is necessary. We just have the say-so of the Department. It has worked out that this is the sum it requires but we do not know whether the works it proposes are absolutely essential at this time. We do not know whether we should postpone the proposed expansion for 2 years until the economy of the country has picked up. 1 cannot see any way in which we can investigate these matters. That is why I bring up this problem,  f  do not see how the Attorney-General can give me a reply. 1 simply am stating the difficulty in which I find myself when looking at the proposed expenditure of a considerable amount of public money - $ 1, 073m - without having an opportunity to find out how it will be spent. 
 I think I mentioned that I had already seen the document Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme. I am aware of all the facts that the Minister has brought forward. He understood correctly most of the points f was making and that I was saying that it could be  -  I did not say that it was - that the Post Office was expanding too quickly. What I really want to know is how we can ever investigate thoroughly the accounts of the Post Office. We have received the annual report of the Post Office. It has not been discussed. Yet, the cost of work that is to be undertaken amounts to $1,0 18m. This is what I want to know: How will we ever have an opportunity of carefully scrutinising the work programme of the Post Office, not so much with regard to its cost but whether it is necessary to carry out the various developments that are proposed? Then the cost comes out if they are absolutely necessary. 
 The Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1971-72 is designed to provide extra finance for the Australian Wool Commission following its appointment in 1970. I will be brief in my remarks because I do not think it necessary to go through the arguments that I advanced when the Commission was established. At that stage, I pointed out the difficulties that the Opposition felt were involved in establishing a commission with a restricted power as was envisaged in the relevant legislation, the Australian Wool Commission Act. Now that the Wool Commission is in existence it is necessary that we should keep it going, even though the Opposition does not agree with it 100 per cent. This is the reason why the Opposition will support the Bill. However, on behalf of the Opposition I have an amendment to propose to the Senate. I move: 
At end of motion add: ', but the Senate is of the opinion, that complementary legislation should be introduced without delay to establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip and that this authority should encompass the functional responsibilities of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission.'. 
The argument that I want to put forward will be very brief. One of the disturbing features when anybody moves an amendment in this place is that many honourable senators who have not heard the argument come in and vote on Party lines, irrespective of what the argument was all about. This applies to both the Opposition and Government supporters. For this reason I propose to state the facts, as I see them, in a very brief form so that honourable senators will know why I feel that the amendment that we are proposing is a valid one, an important one and one that should be supported by all sides of the House. 
I propose to deal with the situation as we find it this year, commencing at 16th March. On that date the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, which has a membership of 75.000, came out with a pronouncement that it approved of the acquisition of (he whole of the Australian wool clip. On 22nd June,  Mr H.  S. Patterson, who was previously the  chairman  of the New South Wales and Queensland Wool Buyers Association, came out in support of an acquisition scheme for Australia's wool clip. On 29th June  Sir William  Gunn, who has been an advocate of the present system of marketing for many years, also came out with the idea that we would have to adopt an acquisition scheme for the Australian wool clip. As honourable senators are aware,  Sir William  Gunn is  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board. On 12th July there was a statement from  Mr G.  Chance. At this stage,  Mr President,  I understand that the wish is to draw this part of the sitting to a close, so I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had introduced the debate on this Bill. As I had spoken for only a few minutes, perhaps I should rapidly go over the points that I had made in order to pick up the argument wilh which I was proceeding. I did say that the Opposition is not opposing this Bill. Although we do not approve of the Australian Wool Commission we recognise that now that it does exist it is necessary to equip it with the necessary finance so that it will be able to meet its obligations. This has become more necessary in view of the international monetary situation which as yet has not been resolved. We feel also that if the wool buying that was necessary by the Commission in an endeavour to keep prices up were removed, if this support of the Commission were removed at this stage, it would be disastrous for the wool industry. I do not wish to say more about the Bill because 1 dealt with the Opposition's attitude to this matter when the Bill which set up the Australian Wool Commission was before this chamber. 
I wish to deal with the amendment that I moved which sta es. in effect, that the Senate is of the opinion that there should be complementary legislation introduced for a single statutory authority for the acquisition and marketing of the wool of the country. After I moved that amendment before the suspension of the sitting I started to give the reasons why I felt that this was in line with the thinking of the people involved in the wool industry in Australia. I was dealing with the opinions that have been expressed by responsible people in the last 9 or 10 months. The first matter to which I drew attention was the decision made on 16th March by the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, which has a membership of roughly 75,000. This body came out in favour of an acquisition system. Then on 22nd June  Mr H.  S. Patterson, the ex-chairman of the New South Wales and Queensland Wool Buyers Association also came out in support of an acquisition scheme. On 29th June  Sir William  Gunn, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board brought to public no' ice his opinion that he was in favour of acquisition at some time. On 12th July - that is only 3 months so far with which 1 have dealt -  Mr G.  Chance, who is one of the members of the Australian Wool Board, and the  President  of the Wool Section of the Farmers Union in Wes' eni Australia, came out with his approval for an acquisition scheme. He was speaking on behalf of the wool section of the Farmers Union of Western Australia as well as a member of the Wool Board. On 16lh July - 4 days later -  Mr Anthony,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, also showed that he was leaning towards an acqusition scheme. This item appeared in the 'Daily Telegraph': 

 Mr Anthony, speaking at a Press conference  in Sydney, said he believed ultimately the wool industry would have to look at some form of acquisition scheme ... 'If one authority has control of the supply it is a lot easier to control than when it is in the hands of a number of entrepreneurs'. 
On 4th August the Australian Wool Board itself made a statement that it was in favour of an acquisition scheme. This report appears in the 'Australian' of 4th August: 
The Australian Wool Board yesterday outlined a sweeping policy for 1971 and 1972, aimed at attacking all the wool industry's problems at once. It recommends acquisition of the whole Australian wool clip to permit more efficient' marketing, and submit a scries of proposals on rural  reconstruction  and debt assistance. 
The following day  Mr B.  A. Wright, the  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, recommended that there should be an acquisition scheme. This opinion was backed up a few months later on 25th November by the Council itself moving for the approval pf an acquisition scheme. On 1 3 th September  -  I think this is rather important, too - a report appeared in the 'West Australian' which reads: 
The State Executive of the Country Party passed a resolution yesterday urging the Federal Government to acquire the entire Australian wool clip. 
So now added to the voices of those other responsible bodies we have the Executive of the Country Party of Western Australia stating that it believes in the importance of an acquisition scheme. There was a news item on 28th September which stated that the Rural Action Movement of New South Wales accepted acquisition. On 13th November the Country Party Federal Council also approved of an acquisition scheme. This passage appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald' on 16th November: 
Decisions of the Country Party Federal Council - at which  Mr Anthony  spoke - confirm the stance of most nf ils Federal MPs in support of a total acquisition scheme for wool from next July. 
On 26th November - we are coming pretty well up to date - both  Sir William  Gunn, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board, and  Mr Anthony  were pushing for acquisition. I think the following passages are worth quoting from the 'Financial Review' of 26th November: 
The re-organisation of the wool-selling system took a dramatic leap forward yesterday at the Australian Wool Industry conference in Sydney. 
The Wool Board  chairman, Sir William  Gunn, with a planned but unannounced move, 'took charge' of the meeting to put forward a 'procedure to grapple with the problems crippling wool'. 
The result was that six members of the two major wool growing organisations, along with  Sir William  and officials of the board, the Australian Wool Commission and the International Wool Secretariat, formed an ad hoc committee and went immediately into secret conference. 
They took with them  Sir William's  seven terms of reference, which featured acquisition of the wool clip, production controls, amalgamation of the board and the Commission, and new powers for the IWS. 
Both  Sir William  and the Country Party Leader,  Mr Anthony,  are pushing for acquisition, seeing it as the cornerstone of not only internal marketing reform but also the way to obtain international co-operation among the producing nations of the IWS. 
The next day, 27th November, the Australian Wool Industry Conference came out in support of acquisition of the clip. This is referred to by the Government as being a very important conference because it represents the views of the country people. I think it is important to quote an article appearing in the 'West Australian' which roads: 
The Australian Wool Industry Conference decided today to ask the Federal Government to set up a new authority to control the industry. 
The plan, which involves merging the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission, would mean a drastic overhaul of the industry. 
The conference also agreed that it might be necessary to replace traditional marketing methods by some form of acquisition. 
The decisions, which are among the most radical in the industry's history, come at a time when many of the nation's 90,000 wool growers are struggling for survival. 
They came after a statement to the conference by the  chairman  of the Wool Board.  Sir William  Gunn, in which he came out strongly in favour of the new authority and acquisition. 
The final view that I wish to quote from  the  number of articles I have in front of me about support for an acquisition scheme by responsible people was expressed on 29th November, which is only a few days ago, in an article in the Australian Financial Review'. The article, which was entitled 'Acquisition without too many tears', read: 
That small band of free traders still remaining within the Australian wool industry must realise by now that total acquisition of the clip is only  a  matter oftime. 
The pro-acquisition forces who have been plugging away at their task of ridding Australia of its auction selling system for many years have suddenly been joined by a host of people frustrated by the failure of a succession of schemes to check the slump in wool prices. 
The latest group to 'cross the floor is the Liberal Party led by the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden. 
I think it is apparent from the recitalI have  made  of  the  views of responsible organisations and individuals in support of the  idea  of an acquisition scheme and of amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and  the  Australian Wool Commission that it was  the  duty of the Opposition at this time  to move  the amendment which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition. For  the benefit of  honourable senators I will repeat the terms of the amendment. It reads: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that complementary legislation should be introduced without delay to establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip and that this authority should encompass the functional responsibilities of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission'. 
I regret that not all honourable senators have been present in the chamber to hear what I have put forward about the views of responsible people in relation to this matter. I am sure that my speech has helped those honourable senators who are present to make a decision on whether the amendment is a worthwhile expression of opinion by the Senate. When a vote is called for on the amendment. I hope those honourable senators who have been present during my contribution to the debate will be able to convince their colleagues that it is worth while supporting the expression of opinion of the Senate I have sought on this tremendously important subject. 
1 do not want to say anything more about the acquisition argument because I was beaten on that point, much to my surprise, as a DLP senator had supported the amendment moved by me. Clause 3 of the Bill refers to the amount of $30m which it is proposed to appropriate. This is in addition to the sum of SI Om which was advanced in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) by way of loan to the Australian Wool Commission. Nothing has been said about why it was decided to provide this amount of $30m and I invite the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrock man),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  to tell us why. ls this all the money that it is considered will be required at this stage? As the Minister said, well over $100m has been provided for the Australian Wool Commission but why has the sum of $30m been decided upon? Does the Government have any idea of how long this money will last? 1 appreciate the fact that it is anticipated that we will be selling wool and that no more money will be required for this purpose but why is the amount of $30m now being sought in this Bill? Why is the sum not $40m or $50m? Can the Minister give us the reason for this? 
I second the amendment and wish to speak to it now. I have not in my mind all the wording of the amendment that has now been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  but in general terms, with the exception of a reference to an immediate attempt to sell the stocks of wool that are held - this is what I think the present Wool Commission is trying to do - this is something that the wool authority should be doing, anyway.It raises again the point of acquisition in another form which, of course, is something with which I entirely agree. It follows what I was saying. 
I did not have an opportunity - I have it now  - of  answering what the Minister said in closing the debate on my amendment. I did quietly interject that I thought that the Australian Wool Industry Conference had decided - this is the report that 1 received - to support acquisition of the Australian wool clip. 1 know that it agreed also to all those other matters which are part of the consideration of the wool industry. I know, too, that acquisition is not just a matter of saying: 'We will acquire the clip' and that is the end of it. I like using the illustration -I use it frequently - that if the people in Canberra want a lake, such as the one they have in Lake Burley Griffin, they agitate for a lake. They do not all have to become civil engineers. They do not all have to find out how to build a dam which will hold back the water. All they have to do is agitate for the acceptance of the principle of having a lake in Canberra. This is what eventually transpired. 
What 1 was saying in relation to that part of the previous amendment which is now coming into this amendment was that we should be supporting an acquisition scheme. This is the major point of the whole exercise. I know that members of the Country Party and members of the Liberal Party feel that full acquisition will come in the very near future. They are not able to get away from Government policy which so far has not accepted an acquisition scheme. The Government has a committee which is looking into this problem and it is waiting on a recommendation from the committee. I appreciate this, but this does not prevent the Opposition from bringing forward this amendment as an expression  of  what it believes, and an experssion  of  what large numbers throughout the industry believe. In my view it is an amendment that the Senate should accept. I should like the Democratic Labor Party to look closely at the amendment which is now before the Seante and I hope that its members will feel that they can support the amendment which, if passed, would be added to the motion before the Senate. This amendment also seeks to give a direction, but it would not actually involve the introduction of a Bill to apply acquisition. By accepting the amendment the Senate would be adopting an expression of opinion.I have very much pleasure in seconding the amendment. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Does the statement by the Attorney-General on 24th November 1971 that the offence contained in the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act is the offence of intercepting a communication in its passage over the telephone system, mean that telephone tapping which can be done without interception of the message is legal, and could be done without Ministerial permission? 
The long title of the Bill states: 
To Authorise the Borrowing of Moneys by the Commonwealth and the Lending of those Moneys to the Australian Wheat Board. 
That really is the whole matter that is before us in debating this Bill. It is almost unnecessary to add to the wording of the longtitle because the Bill is purely a machinery measure to meet a situation which will arise in 9 days time. However, I should like to make a few remarks on the Bill, not for the purpose of canvassing other matters in regard toquotas and so on that were brought forward in the debate on the Bill in another place but to bring before the Senate points which were made by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in his second reading speech. 
The Australian Wheat Board borrowed from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia $364m in order to meet the commitments of the 1970-71 wheat pool. This amount was needed to cover the first payments for wheat in that pool, the intention being that this amount would be recouped from sales throughout the year. When the Reserve Bank makes money available for transactions of this kind it must be repaid within 12 months. I think this is fairly general knowledge. 
At the beginning of my remarks I made the point that the period of 12 months ends in 9 days time on 31st March, which makes the passing of this Bill a fairly urgent matter. I propose to mention the situation relating to our wheat stocks obtained from the 1970-71 harvest. At the end of the previous season we had a carry-over of 265 million bushels, which is a not inconsiderable amount. The carryover was a little larger than we would like to see at the end of a season, but if we were to make sales up to our normal expectation it would not have been a really considerable amount. Unfortunately sales to the People's Republic of China on which we have been dependent for some years did not eventuate. China bought its wheat from Canada and we were left in the unfortunate position of having a large part of what we looked on as foreseeable sales taken from us. Fortunately a market for Australian wheat became available in the Arab states which, although they were not prepared to take as much wheat as we would have exported to China, bought sufficient to bring our total exports to 254 million bushels, leaving us with 125 million bushels which so far we have not been able to sell - although that does not mean that we will not be able to get rid of it before the end of the season. 
Because of this situation receipts by the Australian Wheat Board from sales of wheat will be about $95m short of the amount that we have to repay to the Reserve Bank. The only point at issue, and one about which 1 am not unduly worried, is that the Government is asking for $1 50m to allow some latitude in the amount which may be required to repay the loan outstanding with the Reserve Bank. It seems to me rather peculiar that 9 days before the repayment of the loan falls due we are not sure whether the amount to be repaid will be $95m or less, or as much as $150m. However, of the amount made available by this Bill only as much as is required will be used. I assume (hat about $100m will be required. Interest on the loan will be charged at Si per cent, which is a fairly satisfactory rate, although I would like to see a lower rate. But in view of current interest rates,  5i  per cent is not unduly excessive. 
I think I have covered all the points that need to be mentioned. The arrangement proposed by the Bill is not opposed by the Opposition. We feel that this follows on from the guarantee that was given by the Government under the wheat pool arrangements when $1.10 a bushel was guaranteed as a first payment for wheat. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill and will give it a speedy passage. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a report that, of 30 railway track maintenance workers in Sweden using chemical defoliants to clear vegetation from rail tracks,  5  have died -  4  of them from cancer - and a sixth is in a critical cancer condition? Will the Minister make this danger known to the authorities using chemical defoliants in Australia and, from a humanitarian point of view, will he also oppose their use in any further military operations such as those carried out in Vietnam? 
I cannot give the assurances which the honourable senator asks of me. What I will do, and what I have an obligation to do, is to have his question put to study through the proper channels - through my Department. This I will definitely do in accordance with the question as it was posed. 
has made - a gentle request. I think we would be a little remiss if we did not take heed of what he said. The Bill was introduced rather unexpectedly, I think we could say, into the other place last night. The Opposition did not oppose it because the Bill was largely in agreement with some of the objections that we raised to the Income Tax Bill last year. The Bill now comes before us for ratification. We have no intention of extending the debate. We think that the Bill should be passed as soon as possible. Clause 2 says that the Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the royal assent. Because the Bill will be of such great advantage to pensioners particularly - I am thinking not so much of the reduction in the income tax levy to2 per cent which is a very good thing and which is in line with our policy at the time of the Budget - the Opposition is not opposing the Bill. We welcome the Bill, which has come rather later than we had hoped it would. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that recent amendments to Companies Acts provide that the beneficial owners of nominee holdings have to declare themselves to the company which, in turn, must make this information public upon request? Is it also a fact that these amendments have been proclaimed in Victoria and New South Wales, but not in the Australian Capital Territory? In view of the fact that nominee companies hold 27.8 per cent of the shares  in Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, a company registered in the A.C.T., will the Minister arrange for the immediate proclamation of these amendments in the A.C.T. to ensure that the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade will not be hindered in performing its duty to ascertain shareholdings in the company? 
I do not want to take more than a moment in this debate but I think it is necessary and important  for  the Senate to appreciate some of the further facts. One of the documents that was tabled by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  at or after question time today contains a copy of the instructions which were issued. This is why I want to mention them again. It seems to me that to say: 'An instruction has been issued that police are not to serve summonses' is quite different from saying: An instruction has been issued that police are to carry out some duty with regard to the issue of the warant.' There appears to be quite a difference and a very fundamental difference between people being told nol to do something and being told to do something. So perhaps we could have a look at just what the instruction says, lt is contained in a copy of what was tabled by the Attorney-General. It was issued by G. A. Rowe, District Superintendent of the District Police Office on 19th July 1971 and says: 
Instructions have been received that Court Process taken under any Commonwealth Act such as Warrant of Commitment in relation to National Service. . . . 
Not 'only', but 'such as". It continues: 
. are to be forwarded for execution to Officer in Charge, Commonwealth Police, 214 St George Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.  lt seems reasonable to assume, as there are 32 Commonwealth police officers in Western Australia who carry out the duties of the Commonwealth Police Commissioner, 12 of whom are to execute warrants of this nature, that the 12 should be able to execute 8 warrants in 12 months without very much difficulty. If they are too busy to execute their warrants, there is nothing in this instruction to which anyone can refer, which prevents the State police from being asked, in that eventuality, to execute the warrant on behalf of the Commonwealth police. As far as I can see - no evidence has yet been presented - there is no instruction that the State police are not to execute warrants. They are to refer them back to the Commonwealth police. The second part of this instruction states: 
Execution of Court Process are to be taken in accordance within the framework of Section 21 of the Police Act 1892-1970 and in particular, attention is drawn to line 7 of this Section which clearly sets out the duties relating to any Act in force in the Slate of Western Australia and does not relate to Commonwealth or other States. 
From line 4 of section 21 the Act states:   . . or any other fine imposed under any Act in force in the said State, and any process or any other warrant or command of any Justice directed, delivered, or given to any such non-commissioned officer or constable, shall or may be executed and enforced by any other such officer or constable or his assistants. . . . 
Apparently it is in relation to this section that this instruction was issued. There has been no instruction that the police are not to execute a warrant or what they should do. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has requested that the Senate give a speedy passage to the Bill. If we do, it will be given royal assent this week-end, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who has just resumed his seat, has pointed out. The Opposition could not oppose the provisions of the Bill as they provide for an increase in social service payments and a change in the application of the means test. But this does not mean that the Opposition necessarily agrees with all the arguments that are put in order to justify the increased payments. The payments are acceptable; the arguments are not necessarily acceptable. I shall refer to one argument that was made. The AttorneyGeneral said: 
This  Bill will  lift  this purchasing power to  a  level greater than ever before achieved, because the present rise in pension rate is greater than the corresponding rise which has occurred in prices. 
I do not see that that statement has much to do with the position. We are talking about a proper pension. That is what the Opposition is concerned about. With that short criticism of the Bill and in view of the request to give it a speedy passage, the Opposition is not opposing the Bill. We welcome it as something that will be to the benefit of pensioners who come under the provisions of the Social Services Act. 
I suggest to the Leader of the Government in the Senate.  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that a cognate debate should be conducted on this Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1972. 
I offer an apology to the Senate in that I will be very brief in dealing with the States Grants Bill 1972 and the State Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1.972 because I am at the moment busily engaged on the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, which is inquiring into the Ansett-TNT takeover. I have returned to the chamber just to handle these Bills. I am afraid that I will not be going into them very deeply. 1 think the salient features of these 2 Bills are apparent. 1 do not think that very much discussion will flow from them, although I believe a number of speakers wish to participate in the debate. 
The States Grants Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) are slightly different pieces of legislation. They flow fram a meeting of the Premiers with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in Canberra in February of this year to determine what should be done to help the States in the difficult financial situations in which they find themselves at that time in the financial year. It was eventually agreed by the Commonwealth and the Premiers that the States be granted an amount of Si 5m under the States Grants Bill to be divided among the various States according to a ratio roughly approximating the normal method of distribution. I should mention that a grant of $5&lt;m has been made to New South Wales; $3.7m to Victoria; $2.3.m to Queensland; $1.6m to South Australia; $1.7m to Western Australia; and $700,000 to Tasmania, making a total of $15m. I should also mention that that grant is in addition to a $40m grant which was made at the Premiers Conference which was held in June of last year and that it is not proposed that the present amount of $15m or the previous amount of $40m will be included in the calculation which will be made when the quotas which will be apportioned by the Commonwealth Government to the State governments at the next distribution and in subsequent years are' determined. That, statement was made by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in his second reading speech. A feature of the Minister's second reading speech was the statement that during discussions between the Commonwealth and the States it was claimed that New South Wales was 'in special need and that the circumstances in that State warranted the payment of some $ 1 7.5m in addition to the grant to which I have referred. It was agreed by the Commonwealth that this would be made available on the basis of a loan over a period of 5 years. It does not form a part of this legislation. It will come forward in Appropriation Bill (No. 5), which will be dealt with in due course. 
The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) is designed to assist the works and housing programme of the various States and provides for an increase of $9.3m in the capital grants payable to the States in 1971-72. The amount provided is, of course, smaller than the amount to be provided under the States Grants Bill. The sum of $9.2m will be divided up among the States on the basis of $2.96m to New South Wales, $2.37m to Victoria, Si. 18m to Queensland, $ 1.27m to South Australia, $870,000 to Western Australia and $650,000 to Tasmania. Following the discussions with the Commonwealth the various Premiers expressed themselves as being satisfied with the assistance which was given to them at that stage by the Commonwealth. In view of the fact that 2 of the Premiers at that time were Labor Premiers - there could be 3 on the next occasion - and that they expressed themselves as being satisfied with the assistance, I feel that the Opposition can do no more than give its approval to the measures which have been introduced by the Government. We support the Bills. 
I. am inclined to agree with  Senator Turnbull  about referring this matter to the Standing Orders Committee. One problem that comes into my mind is that if, when we present a petition, we say only that we have received a petition in identical terms to one already presented, it could be a petition from a very large number of people and could be ignored. I remember some 18 months ago presenting a petition in this place from about 15,000 signatories. Because my name begins with the letter 
W, I would be one of the last senators to present my petition - that would happen in this case - because a senator whose name begins with the letter 'B' would be called upon first to present his petition. That petition could have only 10 signatories, and 1 would simply say: 'J, have an identical petition to present' even though it could have 15,000 signatures on it. That fact would not be made evident to either the Senate or to the people of Australia. If we are to adopt that suggested procedure, I think I should be allowed to say that I had an identical petition to present signed by 15, 18 or 1,000 persons whatever the number might be. Possibly all of these points now being raised and very properly brought forward by you,  Mr President,  should be refered to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration. 
I present the following petition from  15  citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the "Universal Declaration of Human Rights", Article 25 reads: "Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.'' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a slate of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Parliament to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of t. average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care program to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 10% of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for  low  rental home units for pensioner*. 
Hoya) Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray 
Petition received and read. 
Similar petitions were presented by Senators Brown, Carrick, Lillico, James McClelland, Milliner, Murphy, Prowse, Townley, Turnbull, Webster and Bonner. 
Postmaster-General's Depart ment 
I do not propose to detain the Senate for a lengthy period with mv speech on these Bills because I think we have heard a fair expression of the views of both sides of the Senate on their attitude to the 7 Bills. I wish to bring out one or two points which have not been mentioned so far or which, when they have been mentioned, perhaps have had a slighly erroneous value placed on them. The most important Bill is the first one - the Dairying Industry Bill - which proposes to continue for another period of 5 years the stabilisation scheme which has been in existence for 3 periods of 5 years. This was done at the request of the dairying industry. I noted that when the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  introduced this Bill he spent more time telling us about the dairying industry's proposals than about what was in the Bill. One of the proposals of the dairying industry was to have the subsidy increased to a minimum of $40.8m instead of the $27m which the Bill proposes should be continued. The 2-price quota scheme wa9 another proposal which was suggested by the industry but which was not included in the Bill. Actually the Minister dealt with the contents of the Bill only in the final paragraphs of his second reading speech. 
I express a certain measure of caution at the optimistic attitude that is prevailing with regard to the dairying industry. As  Senator Webster  said a little earlier today, about 18 months ago Australia was faced with the position of a world surplus of milk products - butter and cheese. The surplus was held mainly in the European Economic Community. It was a threat to the export of our dairy products. So the dairying industry requested that considerable aid be given to that industry in order to meet the situation which was then facing it of a lack and loss of export markets. A lot of work was done by the various States to try to rehabilitate dairy farmers, to try to amalgamate farms into viable units and so on, so that the situation could be met. Suddenly the world surplus disappeared. One of the main reasons why it disappeared was that the European Economic 
Community started to unload, at ridiculous prices, butter and cheese in areas where we had considered we had quite a fair market, with the result that the tremendous sale of these products brought about the situation in which the previous surplus of 70,000 tons was so reduced that we could again come into the market. 

 Senator Webster expressed an optimistic attitude with regard to world prospects for dairy products. I share that attitude, but I feel that we should be cautious. We should not let ourselves run away with this feeling of optimism. We should not expand the industry wherever we can, because the situation as far as milk products are concered is very delicate. I put forward the positive approach that we should endeavour, in the research project which is envisaged in one of the Bills, to widen and continue the research operations. We should be continually looking at the possibility of producing more end products Which are protein rich, because this is what the world will require. We should be producing more cheeses, more butter instead of whole milk or powder. They are the important avenues. These points should be conveyed through the research authorities to the industry, so that it can understand what is required of it and can make arrangements in the production line accordingly. I think that is very important. 
I also sound a warning in regard to the bounties paid to the dairying industry. They will be continued. On previous occasions when we have dealt with bounties for the dairying industry I have mentioned that they are paid on the amount of the commodity that is produced. That means that those who are in need, those who have small production farms and are On the borderline of existence and need assistance, get a meagre amount because of the small quantity of the commodity that they produce, whereas the farm which is producing a large amount of butter fat or whole milk receives the same amount per lb or per gallon as the small farm does. That means that the larger farms get the majority of the bounty. The bounty is to be continued. The matter should be looked at closely by the Government to see whether it would be possible to direct these measures of assistance to where they are so greatly needed. I do not, for one moment, think that because we are channelling finance into these areas there should be created a situation in which the number of small dairy farms will increase. The number should be controlled so that the problem is not expanded. The problem should be contained for the time being until those farms go out of existence by the effluxion of time. That is the kind of thing which should be done. 
I think the levy, consideration of which is being requested in the research Bills. is a very good move. The industry itself supports the proposition. This legislation will enable the amount of finance which is obtained from the industry by way of the levy to be increased by about one-third. In the region of Sim will be available then for research work. My only objection to this legislation is that I feel that 2 of the clauses of the Dairy Research Levy Collection Bill need clarification. I will deal with those clauses at the Committee stage. But they do not really affect the operation of the legislation as a whole. I believe that because of the extension of the stabilisation scheme, the operation of the research levy, the method of collection and so on, the 7 dairying Bills now before the Senate are worthy measures. From that point of view, I have no hesitation in supporting them. 
 At the risk of being termed undemocratic by my colleague  Senator Poyser,  I am going to support the motion which has been presented tonight. We talk about retaining the privileges which we have as honourable senators when we get up to speak. W; talk about retaining all the other rights which we have in this chamber. How much do we object when Other subjects are brought along and when other ways of dealing with our business is found which adds to the amount that we have to do during the time we are in this place? At this moment there is no question of sitting any more weeks in the year. We still endeavour to do the same amount of business plus extra business in the same time. I point out, as has been mentioned in passing by  Senator Davidson,  that we agreed that we would take 2 hours on Thursday to deal with committee reports. This is something extra which takes away from the opportunity of conducting Government Business. If we look at the notice paper, apart from the business of the senate and Government business which we always propose to get through - although we do not always complete all the items of Government business - we see that we then go to general business, followed by orders of the day. 
By the time we complete our session in a week or so we will find that a lot of these items will remain undebated. This is because we are always whittling away our time here by adding, at our wish, further ways of dealing with business. In debating a Bill we deal with a lot of matters concerned in the Bill. An urgency motion deals with only one subject. If we cannot develop it in the time which is proposed - that is "half an hour - then we are not doing very well. If we cannot support our case in a quarter of an hour we are not doing very well. If we want to have more speakers than 5 from each side, as has been suggested, then the matter is not really of urgency. It is only an opportunity to get up and talk. It seems to me that it is quite reasonable, logical and an advance on the way in which we conduct our business here if we reduce the time for an urgency debate to 2 hours as is proposed. This is a matter of principle. We are not deciding that we are going to do this. It would still have to go before the Standing Orders Committee for a recommendation. But we would be establishing this as a principle for the Standing Orders Committee to investigate thoroughly. I support the motion as suggested. 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting  I  intend to move: 
That the Government has failed to give leadership on the marketing of wool. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government received reports from the conference of the United Nations Council for Trade and Development recently held in San Diego? If so, when will it be made available to the Senate? If the report has not been received, can any indication be given on when it will be forthcoming? 
Both of them. 
If we are ever to get a grip of inflation, we have to be clear about the causes. An effective cure depends upon an accurate diagnosis. 
Of course, if we go back to the statements that were made prior and subsequent to the Budget last year by various Treasurers - they come and go so quickly that it is almost impossible to remember their names - we will find that they all indicated different causes for inflation at different periods of time. This is precisely what the I PA Review' says. The editorial continues: 
Here there is confusion. Cabinet Ministers, Press commentators, and even some economists repeat ad nauseam that rising prices result from wages and salaries increasing faster than productivity. It needs no unusual powers of perception, or knowledge of economics (a grasp of simple arithmetic will suffice) to see that this is the main immediate cause. 
These are not my views; these are the views of the Government's own economic advisers. The editorial further states: 
But what we must be concerned to uncover are not the immediate causes of inflation but the deep-seated, root causes. 
First, however, it should be said that wage and salary increases are not the only immediate cause of higher prices. Higher costs for imports are clearly another. Lower export returns for primary products associated with home price support schemes may result in higher domestic prices. Higher prices for other exports, for example beef and zinc, mean higher prices on the domestic market for these commodities. Increases in sales lax and excise duties on such things as cars, beer and cigarettes, result immediately in higher prices to the consumer. 
Yet all we hear from Government supporters when referring to the economic background of this proposition is that we are faced with wage induced inflation and something must be done about it. The something' is to hamstring the trade union movement, to restrict its activities, to force it back into the past and not allow it to carry out its rightful role. As I indicated to the Senate, it will take more than legislative action by this Government to achieve this. After all. this Government is in its decline. Members of the Liberal and Country Parties will not be sitting on the Government side for very much longer. It will take more than the feeble efforts of this Government to hamstring the trade union movement. The movement has expressed unanimous opinion about this measure. It is worth referring to what  Senator Bishop  said about how  Mr Maynes  has been forced to toe the line. I suppose there will be a few other weakies in the trade union movement who will be prevailed upon to adopt the narrow, sectional, parochial and extremist position of the Democratic Labor Party. Notwithstanding all that, the trade union movement will fight for its independence and will survive. This Government will not. 
 Divide and rule. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the contractor for the pink pages of the Western Australian telephone directory, Pink Pages Publicity (W.A.) Pty Ltd, a subsidiary company of the United States company, International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation. 
Are pink pages in other States compiled by subsidiaries of this Company. 
Are Australian tenderers for this service given any preference over overseas tenderers. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
The question of local or overseas ownership is but one of the factors taken into account in assessing tenders for the right to supply advertisements for insertion in the pink pages section of telephone directories. Other considerations include the financial terms offered by tenderers, their experience and competence in the advertising field, and their ability to fulfil the contract conditions specified by the Department. 
 Mr Deputy President,  as this Bill was debated together with the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1972-73, the Opposition does not wish to delay its passage. 
Now that we have the procedure clear I wish to move briefly to the second reading debate. As the Minister has already pointed out, the 2 Appropriation Bills were considered in considerable detail in the various committees. I would think that persons who took part in the deliberations of the committees would not wish to go any further in their investigations. It is not only possible but an actual fact that some members of the Senate were not able to attend the 2 committees in which they were interested because they had to show their loyalty to either one or to the other of those committees. Therefore, it was not possible for them to carry out any investigations in one of those 2 committees. When these Bills are before the Committee of the Whole - I anticipate that this will be very shortly - the opportunity will be given to those honourable senators to look at the items which they were not in a position to investigate more deeply previously. Having said that as an introduction, I wish to make 2 comments only on these Appropriation Bills. 
In my first comment, I will look backwards and in the second comment I will look forward. 1 feel that a large contrast exists between the attitude of the Government when it brought down the Budget for 1971-72 last August and the Appropriation Bills related thereto in trying to limit expenditure in order to cut down the processes of inflation as it saw them and what the Government now proposes in the Appropriation Bills before the Senate. The Budget measures adopted last year, the Government finds, have failed. I felt that those measures were far too drastic. At that time the Opposition expressed the view that the Government's approach was not the right one to put the economy on an even keel again. After a short period of some months following the introduction of that Budget the Government has realised that its approach was far too drastic. I give the Government credit for being prepared to correct the mistake as it saw it. But I think that the Government went too far in the first place, as we said, and now it appears to have erred on the other side. In retrospect, I feel that a little more care and thought on the part of the Treasury, which is really in control of the whole of the operations of the Estimates, would have helped to avoid this situation. A more careful analysis of the Australian economy, as we see it, was required. 
I now look forward. We have seen that, on a seasonally corrected basis, the unemployment situation is not improving at the rate at which the Government would have us believe. The position is practically static at the moment. This most serious situation is being aggravated in many ways. We heard here only yesterday questions about the closure of the General MotorsHolden's assembly works in Western Australia. A few days ago we had brought to our attention the situation at Broken Hill where Broken Hill South Ltd proposes to close down its mine at very short notice and in doing so will put some 640 men out of employment. The families of those 640 men possibly will be denied their livelihood. This is a most serious situation. The Government was aware of the impending closure of this mine. It could have looked more closely at the situation. I have here the report of a geological survey conducted by the New South Wales Department of Mines only this year. It was completed in May. This report goes very carefully into the situation of the Broken Hill South mine and comes up with an appreciation of the problem there with information on existing mineral deposits. The known lodes there will guarantee some 3 years of operations of the mine at the present level of production which is at a slight loss. 
The Broken Hill South company proposes to close this mine and to put 640 men out of work, with consequent effects upon their families, because it says it cannot continue at this rate. It does seem to me - this course is recommended in this report - that one of the things that could be done would be for the Government to subsidise this operation for a short period of 3 years, the men there would then have 3 years notice of the fact that their employment was coming to an end. This would give them the opportunity to look for other employment. I propose this as an alternative to the sudden ultimatum on the part of the Broken Hill South company that employment will cease in the very near future. This is the sort of thing that the Government, with an ear to the ground to determine what is happening in the community, might have been aware of and it might have taken some steps in last year's Budget on the lines that I have suggested to try to smooth over this most regrettable situation. The unemployment situation throughout Australia will be aggravated by the closure of this mine. If these employees move from Broken Hill, the effect on South Australia will be reflected in an increase in its unemployment figures. This action will mean tragedy for a large number of families. 
In pinpointing these 2 examples - that of the Broken Hill South mine and the closure of the GMH plant in Western Australia - I am not saying that the Government should act on these matters only. The Government should look for the possibility of such problems arising. Its experts should be able to give it information on these matters. Then, in an Appropriation Bill such as those before the Senate, not only could the Government meet added costs caused by rising wages and salaries but also it could deal with some of these other matters. We know the action that is proposed with regard to pensions and so on. The Government should be considering some other ways in which it can help the community and smooth over this most difficult period through which we are going. I do not wish to continue further at this stage. I have pointed out what I believe are the errors that have been committed by the Government in these matters. The Senate estimates committees have looked at the appropriations already. I will conclude my second reading speech now so that we may enter the Committee of the Whole proceedings as soon as possible. 
The question I wish to raise here is a very difficult one to raise at this stage, but I do not know how I can otherwise deal with it. When we look at the second department covered by Estimates Committee B, the Postmaster-General's Department, we find that the appropriation is for radio broadcasting and television. There is no appropriation for the PostmasterGeneral's Department in relation to telephone or postage activities. Yet this is a question which, with your indulgence,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I would like to raise. The Department is all the time spending money that it receives in revnue. It is a rather awkward situation that we have no access to information on this. I crave your indulgence,  Sir, because  we are not dealing with this matter although it is covered by the Postmaster-General's Department. It is not in this appropriation. The Minister may not be able to give me an answer on this, either. But I want to put the point forward. 
In the workings of the PostmasterGeneral's Department a large amount of money has been used during the past 12 months and is continuing to be used for the installation of telephone services to country subscribers within 15 miles of exchanges. The Senate agreed to this. The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  said last year that subscribers in country areas who were within the 15 mile radius would have their telephone connected free of charge. I wonder whether it is possible for the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral is this place to give me an estimate of what this has cost up to the present time. I felt at the time this scheme was announced that the proposal by the Postmaster-General was not a fair one in the sense that, although it was a simple and straightforward gesture, he did not tell us what it would cost. I take it that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  will speak for the Postmaster-General. 
I presume the Attorney-General heard my earlier remarks when I said I had some doubt about bringing the matter forward. However the Temporary Chairman has permitted me to do so. I doubt whether the Attorney-General can give me an answer but I ask for the indulgence of the Committee. Perhaps the Attorney-General can give me an estimate of what this cost in the last 12 months. 
I suggest, with the approval of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that Supply Bill (No. 1) and Supply Bill (No. 2) be debated together. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I do not propose to detain the Senate for very long with my speech on these Bills, although I must point out that the Senate has just dealt with a combined appropriation of $150m and that the Estimates committees spent a considerable amount of time dealing with Appropriation Bill (No. 4) and 
Appropriation Bill (No. 5). We have also devoted a considerable amount of time this afternoon to further discussion of this proposed expenditure. The Senate is now about to have a look at the supply by the Treasury over the next few months - until November - of a combined amount of $1,688,384,000. I venture to say that this legislation will be passed without any great consideration of the items of expenditure involved. We have not had the opportunity of carefully examining all of the amounts involved. Largely they are on-going expenses to enable the various Commonwealth departments to function between now and the end of November. This procedure is normally adopted every year at this time. But I do want to register the point that we are dealing with a very large sum of money in an almost cursory fashion by agreeing to this legislation without a very careful investigation of what expenditure will be involved. I think that there ought to be more opportunity for us to go into detail on these matters in order to see where economies can be introduced. It is possible that certain amounts are to be allocated for works which may not be necessary at this point in time. In my view we do not adequately consider this type of legislation. But I can see no way in which we are going to get over that situation today. Therefore, I do not oppose the passage of this legislation. 
This is a Bill which seeks the approval of Parliament for the Commonwealth to guarantee borrowings by Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Bill has only 9 clauses but a wealth of information is contained in schedules and schedules to schedules. In order to get the best interpretation of what is involved in this Bill I think we can refer to the second reading speech of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  The Minister pointed out that there were 2 major matters under consideration. The first one was  a  guarantee by the Commonwealth of $8.4m which would be borrowed by the Administration of Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the second was a guarantee of a credit that would be given to Papua New Guinea by the International Development Association which is an affiliate of the International Bank. 
We find that the purposes of the Bill are set out more clearly in the Minister's second reading speech than they are in the schedule of the Bill. The first section proposes a guarantee by the Commonwealth of $8.4m. It states: lt includes the provision of about 13,500 lines of local automatic exhange equipment, including the replacement of 3,300 lines of existing equipment; the associated distribution plant and subscribers equipment; about 650 additional long distance circuits on existing routes; the installation of telex exchanges with a total capacity of about 600 lines and the provision of about 500 teleprinters. 
I was interested in that part of the Minister's speech because it dealt with telephone equipment. It brought to mind the fact that some years ago a measure was introduced to provide funds for the installation of telephone equipment. I refer to the Papua and New Guinea Loan (International Bank) Act of 1968. The schedule to the Act shows that a loan of $7m was guaranteed. It was to provide approximately 10,000 lines of local automatic exchange equipment with associated buildings, etc., an ultra-high frequency radio long distance system connecting Port Moresby, Lae, Madan, Goroka and Mount Hagen and very high frequency and high frequency radio long distance links which would connect 26 more remote exchanges. 
I refer now to the Papua New Guinea report for 1970-71. It has just been dis.tribured to honourable senators and, I would take it, to members of the other place as well. On pages 121 and 122 there is set out the work that was to be done as a result of the loan in 1968. It lists the exchange equipment. It was: A new 1,000 line automatic exchange at Arawa, a new 530 line automatic exchange at Panguna, 1 new 200 line automatic exchange in the industrial area of Bougainville, a 400 line automatic exchange at Kieta, a 1,000 line exchange at Goroka, a 1,000 line automatic exchange at Mount Hagen, a 600 line automatic exchange at Wewak, a 400 line automatic exchange at Waigani and a 1,000 line automatic exchange extension at Boroko. In addition the allocation of funds was to be used to install a number of telephone channels; I will not go through all of them. The number to be provided in the scheme was 756. That was quite a large installation. The concluding note on page 121 states: 
Note - All the above items are part of the World Bank Section of the Department's programme and, as such, are scheduled to be completed in the 1971-72 financial year. 
So I take it that these items are almost at the point of completion. I referred to the exchange items, the automatic equipment and the extra 650 long distance circuits mentioned in the Minister's speech. If we look at the present Bill we see that, although the Government has not very much say about what Papua New Guinea is doing, it is installing a very sophisticated communication system in Papua New Guinea. I would say that the system is probably in advance of much of the equipment that Australia has. The equipment referred to in the present Bill will be in addition to the equipment that was to be installed as a result of the 1968 Bill. 
I wonder to what extent the equipment which is being installed in such considerable measure is being maintained correctly. 
This is one of the major problems to be faced when sophisticated equipment is introduced into a country which has not been trained in the proper use of it and has not the large number of technicians and engineering staff required to maintain that equipment. I remember particularly the case a few years ago when Carrier channel equipment was installed in Pakistan by America, on loan. A senior PostmasterGeneral's Department technician was sent there to instruct the people there on the use and maintenance of that equipment. The Carrier equipment which had been installed had 15 telephone circuits on one pair of wires. The technician found that, instead of repairing a fault which occurred on one channel, they switched that channel off. So after a few months of operation they were back to their original open wire circuit and none of the channels was working. This surprising thing could happen in a country which has sophisticated equipment and not the ability to maintain it properly. 
I am not saying that there are not qualified people in Papua New Guinea who could maintain the equipment, but the installation of equipment of the type that is envisaged at present will require quite a lot of trained personnel. At page 122 of the Papua New Guinea report the number of trainee enrolments as at 30th June 1971 are set out. The number is tremendous! It is: Technicians, 1st year, 16; 2nd year, 4; 3rd year, 13; 4th year, 7; 5th year, 4. How on earth they can maintain and keep in good order a very large installation such as that envisaged in the Bill is beyond me. I speak as a person experienced in this field. We have no way of preventing the expenditure, and I do not think we should, but I am drawing attention to the difficulties that might be faced in a country such as this when there is to be such a large installation. 
The Commonwealth will guarantee a credit of $7.7m for improvements to the ports of Port Moresby, Lae and Kieta and the construction of a new small port at Alotau. I found it difficult to discover any mention of this expenditure in the Bill. I looked through the Bill. I looked to see whether it was a carry over from the 1970 Bill, which dealt only with the provision of roads. I looked at the schedule to that Bill to find om what was involved. Roads were being constructed in Papua New Guinea then. Quite an extensive network of roads was under construction, including new ones. The amount provided under the Bill was $US9m. But the Bill contained nothing about an extension of ports. As I have given the details of the 1968 Bill in which there was nothing about ports I wonder whether the improvements to ports and the construction of a new port are actually under consideration in this Bill. Perhaps the Minister will enlighten me on that because J cannot find any reference to it. My remarks are a criticism only of an attitude that might be adopted on occasion. 1 mentioned what happened in Pakistan. I know that for a fact. It could happen in this case as a result of the expenditure of the loan from the International Bank, lt is a situation that ought to be watched. We are guaranteeing the loan. For that reason, I think we have some responsibility. We are guarantors and therefore 1 think we have some responsibility. 
While I am on my feet, I express appreciation of the interest rate that will be charged. I think that the low interest rate for what is just a holding credit is very satisfactory, Then there will be a rate of about 7 per cent to pay when the money is used if called upon by the administration of Papua New Guinea. I think this is to be commended. 1 so commend it. The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. With those points that I have made, we will give the Bill a speedy passage. 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General make available to the Senate the terms of the successful tenders for publication of the pink pages in the telephone directory, recently accepted in all States? 
I would like some information from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I am not offering any criticism of the Bill but this matter has been brought to my attention upon reading clause 4 of the Bill which states: 
The Treasurer may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, mv.ke an agreement or agreements with the Bank providing for the purchase by Australia of Two thousand five hundred and fifty paid-in shares, and Ten thousand two hundred callable shares, of the capital stock. . . . 
The question I am interested in relates not to what was said in the second reading speech but in some general observations made during the debate. It was mentioned that the various contributors to the Asian Development Bank would be asked to increase their contributions by a further 150 per cent. That roughly is about what Australia proposes to do. Perhaps the Minister for Civil Aviation could tell me whether we are taking up all the shares that have been offered to us. Has he any information about whether this is being done by the other signatories? I noticed that one of the conditions under which this amount will be made available to the Bank is that 100,000 of the total of over 150,000 shares are taken up by the various contributing countries. Are we taking up our maximum? Can the Minister advise me whether other contributing countries also are accepting their obligations? 
This Bill is very short but very important at this stage. The bounty on agricultural tractors which was payable from 1966 until June of this year will cease unless the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act extends its operation. This is what the Bill proposes to do. The Tariff Board has been conducting an inquiry into the operation of the bounty and the necessity for its continuance and it is expected that the Board's report will be available for the Government to act upon within a very short time. In order to cover the present position the Bill has been introduced to extend the period of operation of the bounty from 30th June to 31st December this year. If the Board reports before the end of the year and it is decided that the bounty should be abolished or reduced, the present bounty will cease. The Opposition raises no objection to the operation of this measure until the end of this year and, consequently, we do not oppose it. The Bill will be given a speedy passage. 
Development is at present very much in the minds of people throughout the world, and particularly the people of Australia, as has been evidenced during the last couple of months by the announcement of a large number of study campaigns by Australians who are concerned with the best way of assisting world development. The Asian Development Bank fits very well into the thinking of people who are concerned with the development of the developing countries, their needs and how best they can be achieved so that we do not just make the richer countries richer and the poorer countries relatively poorer. This can happen when countries set up industries in developing countries to their own benefit. The Asian Development Bank has as its main purpose the making available of funds to countries in the Asian area so that they will be able to improve their productivity and gross national product and raise the standard of living of their people without at the same time creating a greater difference between the richer nations and the poorer nations. 
The funds of the Asian Development Bank have reached a point where it is felt that more shares can be taken up by the countries which are subscribing to it. This has been made known to the various countries so that they can consider the proposition and see what they can do to assist in this very worthwhile objective. Australia has the opportunity of taking up the shares to which it is entitled. It is proposed in this Bill that we would increase our subscription to the Bank by $US127.5m of which $US102m would be callable capital. The amount of $US25.5m would be issued over a 3 year period. This will give the Bank an opportunity to extend its operations which it has carried out so well in the past. I notice in the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  a few points to which I wish to draw attention. It is interesting to note that although the Bank was instituted in 1966 it is subscribed to by 37 countries, 23 of which, including Australia, are in the Asian area. 
I particularly want to draw attention to the difference between the special operations and ordinary operations of the Bank. Special operations are the sort of assistance which I feel a Bank of this nature should be giving to the countries which are very much in need. Under the special operations category, we find that very long term loans are being made available. The term of the loan varies from 16 to 40 years. The percentage of interest charged on these loans is very realistic. It varies from li per cent to 3 per cent. I feel that this is the sort of accommodation that a developing country really needs. Also, a free period of 4 years to 10 years can be considered in every operation. This represents a very worthwhile effort on the part of the Bank for the benefit of the developing country. 
But the ordinary operation of the Bank is not nearly so attractive. Certainly, quite a bit of business is conducted under the ordinary operations. I am sorry that I do not know exactly the difference in the amount that is loaned under ordinary operations and the amount that is loaned under special operations. Possibly the Minister might be able to give me those facts. It would be interesting to have this information to know just where the funds go. Honourable senators will have noticed when I referred to the special operations provisions the long term of the loan, the low interest and the extended free period that apply. These are marked when we look at the ordinary operations under which the rate of interest presently charged on loans is  li  per cent. The period of repayment extends only from 10 to 25 years. That might be quite attractive by comparison with the other term which was 16 to 40 years. But I understand that in this case the free period extends from 2 to 5 years. This represents quite an important difference and is a matter which I think bears close watching. 
These developing countries are very much in need of all the aid that we can give them in a way which enables them to operate properly and improve their capacity to produce without at the same time assisting the aiding countries. We do not require this because we do not want the gap between the countries to extend any more than it is at the present time. We want to reduce the gap. We have in the Asian Development Bank a very worthwhile fund which can be drawn on by the countries in this area. Obviously, they are availing themselves of this fund to a very considerable extent. I think that the amounts that have been paid in by the various countries were shown in the figures that were incorporated in Hansard. The grand total of the present subscription is $US1,005.44m. This shows that the amount is considerable. It represents a worthwhile service to these countries that are interested in applying to the Bank. The Australian Labor Party feels that the extension warrants the taking up of these additional shares by Australia and we support the move. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, each share is valued at SUS10,000. This Bill enables us to take up our share of the additional subscription which is what the Government is proposing to do. I support (he Bill. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I apologise for the fact that I was not present in the chamber when this debate was resumed. In the last half an hour the business of the Senate advanced very rapidly and I was just getting my documents at the time when this debate was resumed. I ask for leave to continue my remarks now. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The inquiry conducted by the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade into the freight rates on the Australian National Line's shipping services to and from Tasmania was an extremely interesting exercise for those honourable senators who were members of the Committee. Weapplied. ourselves very keenly to the subject. We thought we would deal with it in a few short weeks, but when we started we found that one thing led to another and eventually it took some months to reach a satisfactory conclusion and to present a report to the Senate. 
I think it would be as well for me to summarise for the benefit of the Senate, some of the things that happened because the report was presented last year. We took evidence from some 60 witnesses in Canberra. Melbourne and various ports in Tasmania. We looked at the operations of the ANL as well as of other shipping companies. We held 33 meetings, of which 18 were public hearings. Quite a lot of interest was shown by both individuals and representatives of the Press who came along to see how we were conducting the inquiry. We were specifically asked by the Senate to do a number of things. The Committee was given the following terms of reference: 
That there be referredto the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter - 
The operation of the Australian National Line's shipping services to and from Tasmania with regardto: 
the factors considered in establishing freight rales; 
the appropriateness of the current level of freight rales; and 
any amendments necessary or desirable to the governing legislation to enable the operation to be carried out at the lowest possible freight rate. 
We went very thoroughly into those matters which we were asked to investigate. I want to refer to page 70 of the report which contains the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee, because I think that they should be brought to the attention of the Senate. In regard to the first aspect, which was '(a) the factors considered in in establishing freight rates', we said: 
The questions posed here are broad and complex and are not amenable to a specific answer. The Committee's consideration of them ranges throughout the report. 
It was impossible to put in a very succinct phrase the factors considered in establishing freight rates. The report indicates how we examined this aspect. In regard to the next aspect, which was '(b) the appropriateness of the current level of freight rates', which was the important matter that we were specifically charged to inquire into, we said: 
The12 per cent increase in freight rates in ANL services operative from 1st August 1970 was fully justified by thefinancial position of the Line. 
I am giving the brief conclusions and recommendations set out in the report, but the basis for those conclusions and recommendations is to be found throughout the report. In regard to the third aspect, which was '(c) any amendments necessary or desirable to the governing legislation to enable the operation to be carried out at the lowest possible freight rate', we said: 
The Committee, in accordance with specific conclusions which it has reached on this aspect, makes the following recommendations: 
That at the earliest available opportunity- and no later than the re-negotiation of the Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement - the Australian National Line be empowered to act as a freight forwarder if it so chooses. 
Honourable senators will note that the Committee used the words 'be empowered'. It did not say that the Australian National Line should act as a freight forwarder. Under its present charter the Line is not allowed to act as a freight forwarder, but there are some special circumstances which could make it advisable for the Line to have the power to become a freight forwarder if it so desired. The manager and other representatives of the Line assured us that they would welcome this power. They said that they could operate as a freight forwarder, not that they would necessarily do so but that this would give them a bargaining position. The next recommendation regarding this aspect was: 
That subject to the requirement that the ANL meet its statutory obligations to pursue a policy directed towards securing revenue sufficient to meet all its expenditure properly chargeable to revenue, and to permit the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on this capital, the present tonnage limitation should be revised and the Line should have equal opportunity with private operators to provide any additional tonnage required on the Australian coast. 
I do not propose to go through all the conclusions and recommendations that we made, but the conclusions and recommendations to which I have referred are the important ones. We gave them significance by referring to them in the first part of our conclusions and recommendations. We said that they were matters that ought to be considered. 
I do not propose to make a long speech, but shortly I want to refer to the reservations that were expressed in the report by 3 members of the Committee. I have always believed that a committee should do everything in its power to achieve a unanimous report. This is a most valuable way of operating. To reach unanimity, if it is possible, is a desirable objective and one which members of committees should go out of their way to achieve. 
The first reservation expressed in the Committee's report comes from  Senator Lillico.  I regret that, through ill health, he is not here today. I understand that he is progressing satisfactorily. I am not going to say anything against  Senator Lillico.  I am referring to his reservation only because he was a most faithful member of our Committee. We went to a great many pains and much trouble to discuss with him the points that he brought up. I was under the impression that we had achieved unity with  Senator Lillico  on those points. Honourable senators will notice that in his reservation he is concerned specifically about the single port authority that he felt that the Committee was suggesting. He almost came to the conclusion that we were recommending one port for Tasmania. That is not so. The Committee did not feel this. 
It considered that a very good argument existed for the maintenance of the 4 major ports that operate in Tasmania now. What the Committee suggested was that there should be a single port authority to coordinate the work of the existing major ports. Those ports which retain their own operating authority for carrying out their own work in the area covered by each ports; those ports which retain their own ommended was put forward as a possibility and not as a recommendation that should be carried out. Its purpose was to coordinate operations and to bring about, perhaps in this way, reductions in costs. We felt  that this could be done. I thought that we had explained this to  Senator Lillico  and that we had reached agreement with him on it. I was rather surprised to find that he had put in a reservation on the report with regard to the single port authority proposal. 
The other matter that he brought forward concerned the question of subsidies. The Committee made many inquiries from responsible people, including representatives of the Department of the Treasury, to ascertain the value or otherwise of a subsidy and how it could be applied. We were forced to the conclusion that in the case of shipping to Tasmania it was extremely difficult to see any way in which a subsidy could be applied. It would need to go across the board and also to apply to every other means of transporting goods to Tasmania. The situation seemed to be almost an impossible one. So, we did not feel that we could recommend the introduction of a subsidy at this stage. Those were the 2 points contained in the reservation put forward by  Senator Lillico. 
I turn to  Senator Rae  who, in his reservation, had quite a deal to say with regard to the report. I felt - this is my own opinion - that unfortunately  Senator Rae  was not able to take a full part in the work of our Committee because of the demands of another Committee of which he was  Chairman.  This made it difficult for him to be present at a large number of the meetings of our Committee. He did come in again at the end, but- 
Perhaps the honourable senator when he speaks will be able to give us the actual number of times when he was present. I am not criticising  Senator Rae  on that ground. I felt that he was not able to participate actively in the latter portion of our inquiry to the degree that he did when he started out on the Committee. At that time he played a large part in the questioning. In the latter portion of the inquiry he did not take anywhere near the significant part that he had earlier. I felt that a great deal of what he brought forward had been dealt with already in the Committee and we reached a conclusion which was at variance with what he has put forward. This does not prevent the honourable senator from bringing up a reservation report. But, from memory,  Senator Rae,  because of other commitments, was not able to be present at a number of the private discussions that we held to consider the evidence that had been presented to the Committee. 
I feel that, in his reservation, my colleague,  Senator Wriedt,  has introduced a number of different matters that could have been brought up when the Committee was interviewing witnesses. The exploration of these matters before the Committee would have been of great value to its deliberations. A number of the matters that he introduced in his reservation had not been touched on by the Committee. Their consideration might have been of value. 
I am placing on record my feeling that members of committees should endeavour to be at committee meetings on every occasion when they possibly can and that they should produce reservation reports with considerable care, if they have not been able to acquaint themselves fully with what has gone on. That is my reservation in that regard. 
Finally, I wish to come back to the matter that was brought up by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in his address this evening regarding the costs of industrial unrest to the waterfront and to shipping. The members of this Committee were quite concerned to get some of the facts about this matter. I think that each member of the Committee asked questions about it. I wish to read from the Hansard minutes of the Committee hearing on 27th May 1971. Talking of the loss sustained by the Australian National Line,  Senator Lillico  asked: 
It is difficult to assess with any accuracy its effect on actual freight rates? 

 Mr Morgan, who was then the Assistant General Manager (Commercial) of the Australian National Line replied: 
Well, this is a non-recurring item of expense. It will be reflected in the financial results for this particular year. We anticipate that the effect of the more recent industrial problems will mean in round figures a cost to the Tasmanian trades of something like $600,000. 
Because he said 'to the Tasmanian trades' we then were careful to inquire as to whether he meant to the ANL trade, to the whole trade, including the Union Steam Ship trade or the cost to the trade overall.  Senator Wriedt  asked a question on that same day, as reported at page 612. He put this question: 
Could we clarify this? As I understand it, you have already used 3 terms. You have used 'cost to the ANL', 'cost to Tasmania' and 'loss to the ANL'. What do you mean precisely, What are the figures related to? Can you go through them again? There is a figure of $600,000, for instance. What was that? 

 Mr Morgan in reply said: 
The figure of $600,000 was the cost of the recent strike to the Tasmanian services of ANL. I am talking about ANL only. 
We were not satisfied with that point. He had told us of the loss of 600,000, but we wanted to ascertain just how it had occurred. We explored further with the witnesses and made the point that a great deal of freight which is left on the wharf when a ship is not running is picked up when the ship resumes operations. Thus this is not a complete loss. We pointed out also that the Line was not paying wages to some staff. We pointed out too that a ship tied up in port is rather like a motor vehicle in a garage; that it is less costly to leave the vehicle in the garage than to run it on the road. Of course, these were not by any stretch of the imagination comparable costs, but we were exploring the principle behind them. It is interesting to report that the Committee having taken them to task about these points, the witnesses were still of the opinion that the actual net loss, taking into account the loss which would be reduced when the ship finally picked up the freight, was $600,000.  Senator Bull,  who was  chairman  of the committee at that time, asked  Mr Morgan: 
Would you give us the main reasons in your view for this estimated loss of $600,000, excluding the strike at the moment. 
He was speaking of the stewards strike.  Mr Morgan  replied: 
The paramount reason is continuing increases in costs. I listed in my second submission the national wage case, the increased bunker charges which have gone up by something like 60 per cent from 1st January, and variations to the awards to sea-going personnel which have had quite a significant effect on our ship operating costs. 
We were trying to find out the losses the ANL was experiencing over this period which necessitated an increase  of  freight rate by 121 per cent, and this came out. I have given the information in case  Senator Wright  did not pick it up in Hansard. 
As mentioned earlier, we were told in evidence that the cost to the Line was estimated at approximately $600,000 in net loss of revenue, a major contribution to the Line's profitability problems in the current financial year. 
Apparently that was the finding  of  the Committee. 
 We looked al all of these points. I had the document open at this page because I wanted to deal not only .with the report but also what we obtained from the witnesses and so incorporated in our report. I have referred to the passage which reads: 
As mentioned earlier, we were told in evidence that the cost to the Line was estimated at approximately $600,000 in net loss of revenue . . . 
I have not said anything different from that. 
That is exactly what I said. 
I read the reply to  Senator Bull's  question whether it was as a result of industrial trouble or some other trouble. I gave that answer. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! 
The Acting  Deputy President  has perhaps taken my point better than the honourable senator has. The other point 1 wanted to bring out was the increase of 12.5 per cent which we looked at. We found that other increases had taken place, particularly in the realm of the freight forwarder; this was a major increase in costs to Tasmania. Other increases came from wharfage dues and so on, but this was a major cost. However, it was not a cost which was of considerable interest to the public generally or to the people of Tasmania because it was imposed by a very small percentage every couple of years. M.y recollection is that it was an increase of 1 .5 or 1 .75 per cent every 2 years or so. lt accumulated, however, to a very much higher figure than the 12.5 per cent increase which the ANL was forced to ask as a result of having kept ils costs down constantly from about 1967. Had the ANL increased charges by a very small percentage each year - say one per cent - it would have been in the position in which it finished by increasing the cost by 12.5 per cent. However, the public would not have experienced that long period of low freight rates by which the ANL was losing revenue while freight forwarders were increasing their charges. 
In my opinion the ANL came out of the inquiry very well. I think the ANL was doing the best it possibly could for Tasmania; it was investigating every avenue by which it could cut costs. The unfortunate part was that the Committee was not able to see how a competitive service could be made available to Tasmania like that enjoyed by other States in the Commonwealth through road and rail transport which are in opposition to sea transport. 
This was a disturbing factor for the Committee and we went to a great deal of trouble to seek a possible solution to it. As a member of that Committee I am very gratified at the enthusiasm that was expressed by all other members of the Committee and by witnesses who came forward and gave us information as freely as they possibly could. We had very few in camera' sessions, though the ANL presented some financial information in camera. The inquiry generally was open to the public and available to all, and many people were interested in it. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion that the report be accepted. 
 I express my. appreciation for this report on the content, form and presentation of the information section of telephone directories. I want to ask a question which perhaps  Senator Laucke  as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment may be able to answer. Of course the terms of reference of the Committee were directed towards the content, form and presentation of the information section of telephone directories. When this inquiry was first envisaged I was of the opinion that the Committee was being requested - I must admit that I did not look very closely at the terms of reference - to look at the whole question of the presentation of the telephone directory and not only the information section. I admit from reading the terms of reference that apparently this was not intended.  Senator Byrne  felt that a lot of people whom he knew were frustrated. He was surprised that no request had come from these people to the Committee for its consideration. 
I wondered why there had been a splitting up of the directories in a number of the smaller States. This meant extra printing, extra cost and more inaccessibility of telephone numbers and ' information because there was no reference' to other areas in the State. This seemed to be unnecessary. I do not know what the situation is in Tasmania. I think it would be even much worse than the situation in Western Australia. In Western Australia the 5 directories now take up twice the space taken by the original directory. The pink pages are repeated considerably in each of the issues which refer to the various sections of the State. I am surprised that this matter did not come in to the Committee's consideration at all. As this was not in the terms of reference I concede that the  Chairman  might have ruled the matter out had any witness tried to introduce it. I am interested to know whether an attempt was made by any of the witnesses to express some dissatisfaction, with the fact that the directory had been cut up into a number of sections. I think that this is an area which should have been looked at. Had I noticed at the time that this was not included in the terms of reference I would have tried to have the terms of reference amended. Perhaps  Senator Laucke  may be able to give me this information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Government received a report from the United Nations Council for Trade and Development Conference recently held in Santiago; if so, when will it be made available to the Senate? 
If the report has not yet been received, when is it likely to be forthcoming? 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General make available to the Senate the terms ofthe successful tenders for publication of the Pink Pages in the respective  telephone directories recently accepted in all States. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is the policy of the Post Office not to disclose detailed prices of a contract or other information beyond that which is published in the Commonwealth Gazette. However, in respect to the new directory advertising contracts, additional information is being made available because of the great public interest in this matter particularly in regard to the contracts for New South Wales and Victoria. 
The position was that Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd offered the best tenders for all States. For instance, the net return to the Department offered by Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd for the New South Wales directotries was, depending on the actual sales achieved, from 13.6 per cent to 15.8 per cent higher than that offered by Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. For the Victorian directories, the range was from 13.7 per cent to 25.7 per cent and, for a combination of both States' directories, the net returns from the offer by Directories (Aust.) Ply Ltd were from 9.8 per cent to 15.1 per cent better than those from Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. However, the Department decided on a policy of having at least 2 contractors as it was considered in the public interest to maintain competition between contractors. Against this background, Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd was granted the contract for New South Wales which represents slightly more than 40 per cent of the total business. 
The report of the Postmaster-General's Department indicates a revenue of some $ 1,000m. As the expenditure of this very large amount is not included in the Estimates, will the Attorney-General, representing the PostmasterGeneral, inform the Senate in what way it can be examined to ascertain the necessity for charges currently being imposed by the Department? 
The Opposition agrees to the speedy passage of this Bill and will not seek an adjournment of the debate. It seems to me that this Bill which will make capital assistance available to the Statesis one with which we ought to proceed without delay. The various clauses outlined by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  cover the position adequately. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill and supports its passage through the various stages. 
by leave - It seems to me that we are trying to make a mountain out of a mole hill. I think that originally matter was incorporated in Hansard by leave in order to save having to read a long dissertation about something that was probably quite relevant to the argument being presented. It was on this basis that leave was granted by the Senate to incorporate matter in Hansard. If it was something which the Senate did not want to have incorporated in Hansard, then it was the prerogative of the  President  to have it struck from the record. When somebody has asked for leave to incorporate something in Hansard - and we have done this on many occasions - and leave has been refused, that person has just gone ahead and read what he wanted to incorporate in Hansard. We have not gained anything; we have lost. To present something around the House in order to see whether it is acceptable to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber seems to me to be just a complete waste of time and it is getting away from the purpose for which originally we incorporated material in Hansard. 
I hope that we will be able to return to the situation which existed until a few weeks ago when matter would be incorporated in Hansard by leave of the Senate. If leave was not granted an honourable senator had recourse to reading the whole of the material himself. I hope that that is the situation to which we will return. 
The suggestion that the Senate should debate 4 Bills together was something which I intended to make. I do not propose to move that the debate on the Income Tax Bill be adjourned. I think that anyone who wishes to speak on this Bill has had ample opportunity, bearing in mind the interval between the introduction of the Bill and the resumption of the debate today, to prepare himself for it. These 4 Bills - as a matter of fact I think it might have been 5 Bills - were debated together in the other place. They were discussed only briefly because they are such that the Opposition has nothing but support for what they propose. The Opposition would wish that they had gone a little further. However, as far as they go no objection is raised by the Opposition. 
I would like to mention briefly each of the Bills. The first is the Income Tax Bill 1972. It increases from $417 to $1,041 the point at which income tax becomes payable and we believe that this is a very desirable feature. We even think that the amount should have been greater than that. We think that the schedule should be looked at very closely. We feel that this is a temporary measure and ought to be taken further. Also, the additional tax of 5 per cent which was imposed in the previous year and subsequently reduced to  2i  per cent has now been removed. We think that this is an excellent provision. The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1972 is something that we cannot help but approve because it will make much more liberal the allowable deductions in respect of the dependants of a taxpayer. It will also make opportunities for further deductions for education expenses. 
The next Bill is the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill (No. 2) 1972. Personally I can find little justification for bringing it forward because I could think of some other sales tax remissions that might be made or sales tax on certain items removed before considering an item such as imported works of art as deserving of a reduction of sales tax. However, we have no objection to this legislation and it will therefore go forward with our support. 
The last piece of legislation - the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill 1972 - increases payments to that Corporation up to $8m. This is quite a desirable feature. The Opposition has seen the successful operations of the Corporation. It is obvious, from the requests that are being made for assistance from the Corporation, that it is worth while expanding its operations in the way that is proposed i:i this Bill. 
I do not think there is any need for me to go further in this group of Bills. The Opposition feels that the legislation before the Senate is quite satisfactory. It might have been taken further, but at this stage we are prepared to give the Bills a speedy passage. 1 hope that the Senate generally will agree with the legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Annual Report of the PostmasterGeneral's Department indicate that the revenue of the Department is $ 1,000m and as the expenditure of this revenue is not included in the Estimates will the Postmaster-General inform the Senate in what way the expenditure can be examined, so as to ascertain the necessity for charges curently being imposed by the Department. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Annual Report of the Post Office for the year ended 30th June 1972, was presented to Parliament on Thursday, 28th September 1972. The Report reviews in detail the activities of the Department for 1971-72 and its financial position. The financial results of Post Office activities are reported in business terms, showing the profit or loss of both the telecommunication and postal services, a balance sheet reflecting the state of affairs at 30th June and a funds statement indicating the source and application of Post Office finances. The earnings for 1971-72 as shown in the Report amount to $858.5m from trading activities and $270m borrowings, in all$1, 128.5m. 
Departmental officers will attend the hearings of the Senate Estimates Committee and provide further information and explanation when the Post Office estimates for 1972-73 are considered by that Committee. 
In his remarks before lunch the Minister mentioned the report of the Department of National Development and recommended that the section on forestry be noted with interest, but he made no further reference to it. To my knowledge this report has not been distributed to honourable senators - at least, I do not have a copy of it. I have been wondering whether copies are available. I have tried to see one but 1 have been unable to do so. 
I am sorry to persist in this. I accept the fact that there have been discussions but to my mind the point is that no honourable senator here, with the exception of perhaps one, was present at any discussions. We have no knowledge of any agreement that was reached or of any signed document. Nothing was produced to the Senate. It does seem to me that there should be something attached to the Bill which gives authority for this money to be expended in certain directions. There is no reference here. Just imagine that there was a change of government in South Australia, for which some people would hope, and the new government decided to do something else with the money. The Bill does not say that it could not. In this Bill we are specifically aiming to help Kangaroo Island. I am sorry to be pursuing this point but it does seem to me to be urgent that wc know something. 
T refer to the long title of the Bill and seek an explanation of what is perhaps a minor point. The long title reads: 
A Bill for an Act to authorise the Raising and Expending of a sum not exceeding Six million five hundred thousand dollars for a Defence Purpose. . . . 
I agree that this is a war service land settlement scheme, but as it deals with farms, and with money which is to be made available to farmers, why should the Bill be described as having a defence purpose? 
It seems to me that this is quite wrong. I suppose there is some theoretical reason for doing this, but the description in the long title of the Bill seems to be a bit peculiar. Obviously the purpose of the Bill is not to defend Australia but is rather to protect a farmer from a situation which has arisen in farming due to circumstances beyond his control. It has nothing to do with defence. I presume that I can do nothing to have the long title altered, but I should like to know why we must persist in calling this a defence purpose. No doubt the Minister will be able to explain the position. 
I would be quite satisfied with what the Minister has proposed. Nevertheless, I think we should know why our wording still harks back to the inauguration of the scheme which was established under the defence power and why the long title should describe the Bill as having a defence purpose. If the Minister will provide me with  a  letter containing an explanation I will be satisfied on that point. 
I mention next that there is no schedule to the Bill. In the Minister's second reading speech we were assured that the purpose of the Bill was mainly to deal with a problem facing people on Kangaroo Island. Why is there no specific reference in the Bill to Kangaroo Island? I suggest that the legal basis upon which the scheme would proceed would be the wording of the Bill. The State of South Australia might decide to use money obtained under this Bill for some other purpose connected with the war service land settlement scheme and not read the Bill in conjunction with the second reading speech which was made by the Minister. When a specific aid is envisaged I suggest that there should be a schedule to the Bill setting out where the money is to be allocated and used. 
This is an extremely interesting Bill which breaks some new ground in a number of ways. 1 was interested, when reading the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  to note the emphasis he put on various points. I refer particularly to the grant of 54,156,000 which is to be made available to the State of South Australia, because it is not entirely of the same nature as grants that have been made available previously for assistance with war service land settlement. In South Australia it has been found that the land settlement scheme on Kangaroo Island has been very adversely affected recently by the high incidence of clover pastures which apparently brought in their train a high oestrogen content in the feed resulting in a deleterious effect on the sheep population in particular. 
The Minister referred to the fact that on Kangaroo island there is a unique combination of circumstances. He mentioned the problem of the oestrogen content of the clover. We have had this problem in Western Australia also. It is quite a significant problem. In the past we have endeavoured to obtain the use of the research facilities of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to throw some light on this very serious subject. 1 am pleased to say that recently, within the last 2 years, the CSIRO has been carrying out considerable research in Western Australia on this disease. Apart from this clover disease, which would be expected with the advent of clover pastures, we have had, as the Minister mentioned, seasonal feed shortages, the high cost of replacement stock, limited transport facilities and higher than average production costs on Kangaroo Island. Because all these factors have become cumulative at this time the Government has decided to make an additional grant to the State of $2.5m. This is over and above the normal grant that would have been made available to the State. 
Western Australia and Tasmania are the other 2 recipients. Western Australia will be granted $1,600,000 and Tasmania will be granted $744,000. The grants will be made to the 3 States mainly to alleviate the distress that is being experienced by those farmers on land settlement schemes, the difficulties that they are facing at present - difficulties in obtaining carry-on finance and difficulties in finding fodder reserves - and similar problems on less viable areas in Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia. The farmers will be granted a loan which will have to be repaid, hut at least it will be assistance that will enable them to meet their commitments and to expand where they feel that it is possible to do this in a viable way. lt will assist the land settlement schemes principally situated in those States. 
This is not the first time that a loan has had to be granted to provide assistance for land settlement schemes. It brings to mind the need for a very careful look at similar schemes instituted at any time in the Commonwealth. I know the situation in Western Australia better than I know the situation in the other States. On a number of occasions the capital investment on war settlement schemes has had to be written off to help farmers who have been given assistance to go on to the land on their return from serving their country overseas. It has been essential that they should be further assisted when they have found thai they had too much of a millstone around their necks to carry, with the return they received from the prices that they were getting for their products, and because of what they had to pay to continue their operations. Therefore, while not opposing the Bill, the Opposition feels that certain words should be added to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that a select committee of the Senate should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines fo; any future land settlement scheme with particular reference to the level of rentals demanded from settlers, the method of valuations and the option of purchase price of properties." 
This seems to me to be a very reasonable approach to the problems that might obtain from time to time in the war service settlement scheme. The scheme has been in operation for a good many years now. I agree that in the main it has operated successfully. I think the Minister mentioned this fact in his second reading speech. He said: 
The scheme has stood the test of over 20 years of operation. 
It has stood the test, but a number of difficulties have arisen from time to time. It is in order to meet these difficulties and to try to anticipate what might occur on future occasions that I have moved the amendment, lt does not seem likely that this will be the last lime that we will consider the soldier settlement scheme, nor will it be the last time, I predict, when we will have to help the land settlement schemes in the way that we are helping them now. So I have sincerely moved the amendment, believing that it will give us an opportunity to discuss the value of such research, such inquiry and such report as would assist the Government in any future proposal of this nature. I support the Bill and the amendment which seeks to add certain words. I hope that the Senate will be prepared to accept the amendment, in view of its terms. 
I suggest to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that, as this Bill, the Australian Capital Territory Tax (Purchases of Marketable Securities) Bill and the Australian Capital Territory Stamp Duty Bill are short measures, we might consider them at the one time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - There being no objection, the Chair will allow that course to be followed. 
We will get through these Bills very quickly. I wanted to have them dealt with together because they are closely related. Until recent years the Australian Capital Territory has been a tax haven as far as sales tax, purchase tax and stamp duty are concerned. Only a few years ago it was brought into line with the States. Since that time the .States have changed the rates at which they impose stamp duty and tax on sales and purchases of marketable securities. The 3 Bills have the sole purpose of bringing the legislation which applies in the Australian Capital Territory into line with that which applies in the States. 
The first Bill is the Australian Capital Territory Tax (Sales of Marketable Securities) Bill. In effect it changes the rate of stamp duty payable on smaller sales of marketable securities from 5c to 7c and on larger sales from 20c to 30c. This brings the rates in the Australian Capital Territory into line with the rates in the States. 
The second Bill is the Australian Capital Territory Tax (Purchases of Marketable Securities) Bill. It deals with the other side of the transaction. It does precisely the same thing. The 2 Bills impose a minimum rate of stamp duty payable by a buyer or a purchaser and have the effect of imposing stamp duty on transactions involving marketable securities. The third Bill is the Australian Capital Territory Stamp Duty Bill (No. 2). This seeks to bring about an alteration to the First Schedule of the Act by omitting '5c' and inserting in its stead 15c' for each $25 of the value of the securities. The present rate is 5c for each SI 2.50. The subsequent clause in the Schedule, clause 4, effectively completes the legislation. 
The Opposition will not oppose these Bills. They are purely machinery measures. I do not think the people in the Australian Capital Territory will be as happy as they would have been if the situation were left as it is, but one part of Australia cannot impose a rate different to that imposed by the States. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  .prepared to have the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, the Gift Duty Bill and the Gift Duty Assessment Bill debated together? They are associated Bills. 
I think that the situation will sort itself out as we proceed. The Bills deal with estate duty and gift duty. Anybody who wishes to speak, obviously will be directing himself to one or the other. I do not think it will be at all confusing. I will not speak at length on these Bills. I am quite in favour of them. The Opposition is in favour of them, as far as they go. On 7th May 1970 I led for the Opposition in the debate on the Estate Duty Assessment Bill. I expressed support for the Government's amendments to the Estate Duty Assessment Act. At that time I moved, unsuccessfully I regret to say, an amendment seeking to add certain words to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. I shall read what I moved so that honourable senators may understand the point I am trying to make. I moved: 
At end of motion add, but, whilst realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24th September 1969 and that this limited Bill offers some measure of relief from death duties in the rural sector, the Senate is of opinion: 
That the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation. 
the particularly critical situation of - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sector, where in both cases a large part of the estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of which to meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation, and 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States; and 
that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by further amendments of the Act. 
Honourable senators can see that I pointed out that it was necessary to have a very detailed inquiry into the operation of estate duty. It seems to me from circumstances which followed that this was obvious to the Government. Perhaps this specifically resulted from the emphasis which was brought into this chamber by an honourable senator who believed that there should be some relief of probate and estate duty in Australia. This probably forced the 
Government to exercise some discretion by giving a little more relief than it had in the past. 1 think that nowadays the whole matter of estate duty has to be thoroughly examined. I do not approve of the elimination of estate duty. I think there are reasons for its being persisted with but I do think that in the present state of valuation, particularly of the property of farmers, it h is to be looked at closely. When a farmer dies probate is collected on the value of the property and not on the price for which his widow can sell the property. An anomalous situation arises when a person is or could be forced to sell a property for a sum which is not the true value as far as the Commonwealth Taxation Office is concerned. This is just one of the areas which ought to be looked at. 
I know that the Government has progressively eased the operation of estate duty by increasing the level at which it becomes applicable. The Government has also amended the legislation so that if a number of deaths occur in fairly rapid succession this is taken into account and there is not a second or perhaps a third imposition of estate duty. We also know that should an occasion arise where difficulty is experienced by the testator or where the estate itself finds difficulty in meeting the estate duty, however the duty is arrived at, the Commissioner of Taxation can consider the situation and extend the time at which the tax becomes payable. I know that the Government has - I have approved of this - taken many measures to lessen this load. I think that this has had quite a significant result. Only a fortnight ago I was listening to either a news item or some programme which dealt with this matter and it was pointed out that over the last 5 years the Treasury claimed that no estate had had to be sold in order to meet estate duty. This was rather significant. Where as it has been frequently claimed that a person has been pui in the position of having to sell a property when it was disadvantageous to do so, in actual fact this has not occurred. But the possibility is there, and that is what I am worried about. This is why 1 feel we should have a very close look at the imposition of estate duty. I do not want to go on any more with this because 1 agree with the amendments which are being affected by this Bill. 
I think the provisions in relation to gift tax and gift tax assessment are an improvement on those which have applied hitherto. The Opposition is not opposing these provisions. I have expressed these few thoughts because I think this matter is vital. It concerns very many people, particularly farmers, and applies also to the owners of small businesses. But in the case of small businesses the owners have the opportunity to sell part of that business such as stock. This is not the case when one is dealing with a farm. I think the Minister for Civil Aviation will be happy that the Opposition is not endeavouring to move an amendment to any of the 3 Bills. Having expressed myself on these lines 1 just state that we will support the Bill. 
I regret that I have not been able to express an opinion prior to this moment on the amendment moved by  Senator  Byrne. As you are aware,  Mr President,  I have already spoken to the second reading of the Estate Duty Assessment Bill 1972 and I must direct- my remarks now to the amendment. Looking at this amendment, the Labor Party is not prepared to accept this expression of view that the Federal estate duty should be eliminated. As was rightly said by only one member of the Government, estate duty was introduced by the Australian Labor Party because of its philosophy. It must be remembered that, at the time when this duty was introduced, the value of properties was nothing like the value of properties of similar size and condition today. Over the years, the situation has changed. Although our philosophy has not changed, our attitude to the depth to which estate duty should operate has had to be amended. 
On ever occasion when this matter has come before the Senate we have moved an amendment that an inquiry should be held into the situation regarding estate duty. On 18th August last year, over 12 months ago,  Senator Davidson  gave notice in this chamber of his intention to move for the reference of the matter of estate and like duties to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and this reference was directed to the Committee by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  some little time later. Nothing further was done. We have not had a report from that Committee. 
This is a tremendously important matter. We do require some guidance as to what would be the Committee's findings on estate duty. I have had to delay making any statement until an opportunity was available to me to move the amendment that I now propose to outline. I had hurriedly prepared an amendment and had it ready for distribution. I had given one copy to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and another copy to the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
At the direction of the  Clerk  minor alterations had to be made to the amendment. These have now been made. Therefore, I move: 
Delete all words after 'Senate', and insert: 'is of the opinion that the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations should bring down its report on "the effects of estate and like duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequences of such duties" at an early date'. 
It astounds me that every member on the Government side who has spoken has said that he will support the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne.  This is not the policy of the Government at the moment. The Government has introduced Bills to amend the Estate Duty Assessment Act, the Gift Duty Act and the Gift Duty Assessment Act. It seems to me most peculiar that not one Government  speaker  has supported the Government's Bills without saying: 'I also support the abolition of anything to do with estate duty'. 
-Good heavens! You cannot have it both ways. You can only have it one way. You cannot say: T support these 3 Bills introduced by the Government', ' which means that you support estate duty and gift duty and are supporting the Government and then turn around and say: T support the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne'  which reads:   but the Senate expresses the view that the Government should consider as soon as possible the complete elimination of Federal estate duty'. 
What I am suggesting is that the point of view expressed by this Senate last year - it was supported- by all sides, of the House - was to the effect that this matter should be referred to an existing Senate Standing Committee. We agreed on this proposal. This matter has been referred to that Committee. Is that not the proper way to do this? The Opposition is perfectly happy with this inquiry being conducted. It has supported it. We have not had any chance of amending any relevant legislation. To date we have not been in a position to do so. We will do something about the position very shortly. 
The amendment that I have moved really puts the whole situation in the way in which it should be presented. It reflects the attitude expressed previously by the Senate. We have directed our Standing Committee on Finance and. Government Operations to look at this matter of estate and like duties.  Senator Byrne's  amendment asks the Senate to say to the Committee: 'We do not want you to look at this matter because we want to wipe out any aspect .of estate duty at all'. I will leave it at that. I cannot see anything else which, in conscience, the Senate could do but support my amendment which is in line with the Senate's expressed view and wish. All I am asking is that the Senate support my amendment which provides that the Senate is of the opinion that the Senate Standing Committee should report at an early date. It is in excess of 12 months since this reference was proposed by  Senator Davidson,  who has now entered the Senate. He introduced it on 18th August last year. The matter was directed to the Committee on 7th October last year. We await with eagerness the results of the deliberation of that Committee in the form of its report. For those reasons, I have moved my amendment. 
 I endeavoured to rise on a number of occasions, but could not get the call, while  Senator McManus  was in the chamber. I regret that now I have the call he is absent. I want to say where I stand. I am supporting  Senator Negus  in his amendment which proposes the introduction of a new clause which will deal with cases of hardship. In doing that, I now want to put the record straight as to what I said last Wednesday on this matter of estate duty, because we are on the air and because  Senator McManus  misquoted me also on the air and exactly the same criticism has been made in a Melbourne newspaper. I want to put the whole matter straight because it applies to this particular issue.  Senator McManus,  reading from Hansard, said that I had said:   . . estate duty was introduced by the Australian Labor Party because of its philosophy. . . . Over the years, the situation has changed . . . our philosophy has not changed . . . 
He paid me the tribute of saying that he considered I was honest enough to express an honest opinion. But the point is that he did not read all that I said. With your approval,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I will read the paragraph from which he quoted, including all the words and not only those quoted by  Senator McManus.  I said: 
As was rightly said by only one member of the Government, estate duty was introduced by the Austraiian Labor Party because of its philosophy. It must be remembered that, at the time when this duty was introduced, the value of properties was nothing like the value of properties of similar size and condition today. Over the years, the situation has changed. Although our philosophy has not changed, out attitude to the depth to which estate duty should operate has had to be amended. 
I believe this puts an entirely different complexion on what I was quoted as saying last Wednesday. What I was saying in moving the amendment which I moved at that time was that we really needed to support a decision which had already been reached by the Senate - namely, that we would submit this whole matter to a standing committee - and that I was waiting for the report of that committee and wanted it to be presented at an early date. What we are doing now, in considering this amendment moved by  Senator Negus,  is an entirely different matter. The amendment is not asking for the report. It is asking that in the legislation which is now being passed here be inserted a new clause which will deal with cases of hardship as they come forward. That is all I wanted to say in order to put the record straight and to express my support for the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact, as has been reported, that at a meeting in Western Australia on Saturday the Minister for Primary Industry made the statement that an inquiry not yet begun by the proposed Australian Wool Commission would overwhelmingly recommend acquisition of the Australian wool clip? If so, what is the value of such an inquiry? How could the Minister anticipate the conclusions of an inquiry that has not yet commenced. 
To make the situation a little more confusing,  it  at all possible, and to allow you.  Mr President,  to have all the facts that you can possibly get with regard to this hearing of Estimates Committee B- 
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I too was present at this hearing of the Committee and that I am not one of those senators who have  been  nominated to Estimates Committee B. My duty confines me to Estimates  Committee  E but I was interested in the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department and because Estimates Committee E was not meeting at the time Estimates Committee B was discussing the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department, I crashed the hearing which is possibly the way to describe my appearance at that hearing. I came at the beginning of the investigation of the Postmaster-General's accounts and took a place at the table. Knowingly or unknowingly.  Senator Davidson,  as  Chairman,  accepted me as a member of the Committee and allowed me to ask questions in the rotation around the table. I think it was on the basis that I had already established a precedent by asking a question that  Senator Georges  felt aggrieved when it came to his turn and he was not allowed to ask his question. So I think it is necessary,  Mr President,  that you have all these facts hi your mind when you are making a decision. It seems to me that any senator attending any meeting of a committee should  be  given equal rights, but only those senators who are appointed to the committee are the ones that can determine a report which is then sent to the Senate at a later stage. 
We have dealt with clause 38 (l.)(a). I mentioned previously in the discussion that I wanted to raise the question of futures. It is well known and recognised that about 80 per cent of the Australian wool clip is sold by arrangement before it hits the auction floor. I am very much opposed to this practice. 
I want to ask the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  a question. I am not dealing with the next amendment. I aim relating my remarks to wool marketing which is the subject of this Part of the Bill. It has been pointed out to me that some people who have seen the Bill believe that there is within it the. opportunity for the Corporation still to allow the operation of futures. Is there any clause in the Bill dealing with this practice? I have not been able to detect such a clause, and I want to know whether the Minister can enlighten me or assure me that there is not such a clause. 
I am satisfied with that answer but I am sorry that it will have that authority. I refer now to clause  38  (1.) (o). This clause comes very close to what the industry has been requesting but it does not actually establish the fact. In the reply of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  to the second reading debate, to which I had no opportunity of replying, he gave a different interpretation of what the Australian Wool Industry Conference asked for in March. He said that in March the industry was not so definite about the necessity for the institution df an acquisition scheme to acquire all Australian wool. Yet in the second reading speech that the Minister made on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  he said: 
In addition the Conference recommended that the new body should be equipped with wide powers including the power compulsorily to acquire the total Australian wool clip. 
That was what I quoted earlier. I quoted from the Minister's own speech. In replying to the second reading debate the Minister said that I was quite wrong in my assumption because that was not what the Australian Wool Industry Conference said. He then went into what the Conference said last year and what a committee reported in March this year. I believe that the industry as a whole is asking for acquisition. Going a little further, the day before yesterday I asked the Minister a question about the speech made by the Minister for Primary Industry at a show held at Wagin in Western Australia. The Minister for Primary Industry acknowledged the need for acquisition. I quote from his speech, a copy of which the Minister for Air provided to me earlier today. Talking about the report that would be made by the Corporation, which is not yet set up, when it inquires into the need for acquisition, the Minister for Primary Industry said: 
I believe the report will overwhelmingly recommend that an acquisition scheme be introduced as quickly and as effectively as possible, lt is necessary to point out that there will be ancillary legislation in the States. 
I do not dispute that for a moment. The Minister for Primary Industry recognised that there is a demand for acquisition and that the demand will be upheld by the  Corporation  when it reaches the stage of submitting its report. The Opposition feels that the matter should be taken a little further than what is set out in the Bill and that the Bill should stipulate that the Corporation should institute the inquiry. This has not been set out in the Bill, lt has been mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Air. It is the Bill which counts. It is the wording of the Bill which is so important. This is not in the Bill, it is only in the second reading speech. That is why the proposed amendment is worded in the way in which it is worded. The Opposition considers that the inquiry should be made urgently and that the report should be made available within 6 months. The Opposition considers that this point should be incorporated in the Bill. 
I think it is important to realise that the Opposition is not saying that the report will be one way or the other. I believe  that  it will be in favour of acquisition, but the Opposition is not stipulating that the Bill insist that the Corporation recommend an acquisition scheme. The Opposition wants a report. It should be available in 6 months, not in a couple of years. I do not think there is anything unreasonable about that request. It should be part of the Bill. It would ensure that the Corporation would have the necessary power, authority and direction to carry out this inquiry urgently and to make a report to the Minister for Primary Industry. Therefore I move: 
Clause 38, sub-clause (1.), after paragraph (o) insert the following new paragraph:  (oa)  to formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation, of a scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months of the commencement ot this Act; and. 
Then the clause would continue with paragraph (p). I think that the paragraph is reasonable when the majority of the industry wants acquisition. Let us have an inquiry. I think the Minister for Air has said that it is necessary to have an authoritative body make this inquiry. We want to be absolutely certain that its report is the one that the industry wants. Never mind the Randall report and the other reports that we have had before; lel us have an authoritative one which will look into this matter and give an answer in 6 months so that we will know where we are heading and what we have to do - whether we have to go ahead with acquisition. 
 I was about to ask the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  whether he would agree, with the concurrence of the Senate, to the Wool Industry Bill and the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill being considered together. I am very pleased that the Minister has suggested that course because it will expedite our business tonight. I deal firstly with the latter Bill because I think we can complete our considerations of it quickly. The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. It is practically the same as a Bill that was introduced in 1971. The deficiency payments could be required in the coming year. We see no reason why this legislation should not be enacted. There is an interesting point about the Bill. With the variation in the cost of living and with the other monetary factors involved, what was considered to be a correct payment last year may not be the correct payment this year: If this is the correct payment this year, perhaps it should have been less last year, or if this was the correct payment last year, perhaps it should be more this year. I mention that just in passing. We are not opposing the Bill. I think the Minister will be aware of that fact. 
I deal now with the Wool Industry Bill. It has been expected by the wool industry for some time, following requests, demands and urgings that have been made by various organisations in the industry - the Australian Wool Industry Conference, farmers' organisations and farmers' and graziers' associations - that something should be done about the parlous situation that existed in the industry until quite recently. The Wool Industry Conference asked that 3 points be considered by the Government. The first point was that the Government should combine the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission into one corporation. I think this suggestion met with support from all quarters. The second point was that some form of reserve price scheme should be arranged to help the industry, where required. This point was universally accepted. The third and important point was that a statutory body should be set up to acquire and market wool. This proposal was not supported to the same degree as the other 2 matters, but the support was practically unanimous. 
I have received telegrams from organisations of farmers and from individual groups of farmers urging that at this time the Senate and I in particular - 4his is no problem as far as I am concerned because I will move an amendment in the Committee stage - should seriously consider an amendment to the Bill to enable the question of acquisitions to be looked at more closely by the corporation Which is to be set up. I wish to refer to the second reading speech of the Minister. I note particularly that he said: 
In amalgamating the Wool Board and the Wool Commission into one body the Government is acting in accordance with the wishes of the industry. In March of this year the Australian Wool Industry Conference submitted to the Government proposals recommending this action,  In  addition the Conference recommended that the new body should be equipped with wide powers including the power  compulsorily  to acquire the total Australian wool clip. 
I am not purporting to read out all that the Minister said in explanation of why it was not considered possible to go ahead with this point of acquisition. Further on he states: 
Rather than, delay action on the industry proposals the Government decided to proceed with the merging of the Wool Board and the Wool Commission and specifically to empower the new Wool Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme, clearly defined in all respects. The plan will need to be acceptable to the wool industry, the State governments and the Commonwealth Government. 
Taking the last sentence first, I do not think that there will be any difficulty in gaining acceptance from the wool industry. The industry has said in no uncertain terms that it wants a compulsory acquisition scheme and a statutory body to administer it. I do not think that the State governments will hold out if this is the wish of the industry, particularly if the Commonwealth Government is acceding to the requests of the Australian Wool Industry Conference made earlier this year. These are points that I want to be considered. 
When we look at what the Minister has said and then try to find wording in the Bill which sets out this request to the new Corporation to put these matters into effect, we do not find one mention of the word 'acquisition' anywhere except once, in reference to acquiring buildings. There is  nothing about acquiring the wool clip. Clause 5 sets out the objects of the Bill. They are as follows: 
to promote the export from Australia of wool and wool products; 
to promote trade and commerce in wool and wool products . . . 
to encourage the production, and the use of wool and wool products . . . (d)to ensure the availability, when a state of war . . . and so on. 
The last line of the clause states: and this Act shall be construed and administered accordingly. 
There is not a word about wool acquisition. This is very important. In clause 6 all the definitions of the terms used in the Bill are set out. There is no mention there of acquisition. I would think that there would have to be some definition of the terms put into the Bill and, in particular, some reference to the acquisition of the total Australian wool clip. The nearest we get to that is in clause 38 which deals with wool marketing. Clause 38 (o) instructs the new body as follows: to inquire into (whether alone or in co-operation with other authorities and organizations), and from time to time report to the Minister and to the Australian Wool Industry Conference upon, methods of marketing wool (including any changes in wool marketing procedures that the Corporation considers necessary to enable the Corporation to exercise control over the marketing of all wool produced in Australia) and any other matters connected with the marketing of wool; 
This is a pretty broad sort of thing. It is not specific enough. It does not say that there ought to be a report brought down within a specified period. It could go on for 3 years or 5 years. We already have reports that have been requested. The first big one was the Crawford report. Then we had the Randall report, which was not so emphatic about acquisition but which did not by-pass it. Now we have the actual Australian Wool Industry Conference reporting its inquiries from the industry as a whole, and nowhere in the measure do we find any mention of this or any time limit set down as to when the report should be made by the new Corporation. I think that these are very important facts. 
The Bill, which I am not opposing, has been very widely discussed in the other place.I believe that the important thing is that we. should look very closely at its lim itations with regard to this point of acquisition. I am now having distributed amendments which we will move at the Committee stage. It is important to see that this lack in the Bill is corrected. From my conversations with wool growers in many parts of Australia I think that this is the sort of thing they want. They are not asking, and neither am I - I make this quite clear - for the acquisition plan to be implemented at this moment or even with the passage of this Bill. I am asking on behalf of the Opposition - I believe that many others desire this in view of the correspondence and telegrams that I, and no doubt many other honourable senators have received - that the Corporation be empowered specifically to look at the. question of acquisition and speedily make a report to the Parliament within 6 months. This is in the terms of the proposed amendment to clause 38 (o) which would insert a new clause 38 (oa). I will deal with that when we come to the Committee stage. 
There are a number of other things that I think the new Corporation will look at. It has been instructed to do so. It will carry out this task quite faithfully. They are matters relating to objective measurement, matters that will reduce the cost of displaying wool for the benefit of the producer and the question of heavier bales. I am sure that all these facets will be taken into consideration. I have indicated that the Opposition is not opposed to the second reading of the Bill, but we see the limitations of the measure. We will deal with them at the Committee stage. Therefore, I say at this point that we will give the Bill a second reading. 
 I move: 
In sub-clause (1.), paragraph (a) after 'auction', add 'or otherwise'. 
This is the first of our 3 amendments. It will be found that there are a few inconsistencies in the Bill. For instance, clause 38(1.) (a) reads:  to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction. 
Quite a number of criticisms have been made of the Bill on the basis that it seems to come down rather heavily on the side of supporting the auction system. Of course, as most honourable senators know, there are quite a number of other ways of selling wool. There are private buyers and organisations that come into the wool selling programme. Clause 40(b) deals with the buying of wool. The Corporation is given the power to buy wool at auction 'or otherwise'. Clause 38(1.) (a) goes only as far as covering wool offered for sale at auction. As I said before, there are a number of ways that wool can be offered for sale. It could be offered for sale in various ways by the Corporation. It is our suggestion that we add to that clause 38(1.) (a) the words 'or otherwise'. This then allows the Corporation to adopt any measures that it feels are suitable at the time. When I say that, I mean suitable to the wool producer in that it will give him a better price. This may be done in all sorts of ways. Another thing that I mention in bringing forward this amendment is that I do not see in clause 38 any reference to operation of futures. There is no specific intention here. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say whether, if we insert after 'auction' the words 'or otherwise', we will give an opportunity for consideration of futures operations. 
I ask a question whether it will be able to. I have mentioned this only because there may be some people who are interested in the futures market. I did not introduce the Bill. I am moving an amendment. What I am suggesting is that as there are other methods we should not exclude them by using only the words: 'offered for sale at auction'. This is the sole purpose of putting forward this amendment. It seems to me that it is reasonable. It takes the inconsistency out of the Bill by providing that wool sold otherwise than at auction would also be covered. But we do not do that, as the Bill stands, although the Bill provides that the Corporation may sell at auction or buy at auction or otherwise. I think that we can have it both ways. 
The Minister for Air is right in 95 per cent of what he has said. I am prepared to accept all the explanations he has given in relation to that 95 per cent. But he has not dealt with a particular point which I think is important, that is, that this Bill rather limits the Australian Wool Corporation to selling by auction. The Corporation has to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in relation to wool offered for sale at auction. I cannot see any reason why the Corporation could not decide to sell to someone else as well as by auction. This is what I am talking about. When it wants to sell to someone else it could say: 'As far as we are concerned it ls going to operate on the flexible reserve price scheme that we have laid down and have found out over last week's operations under the auction system'. This would enable the Corporation to set a price which is the flexible reserve price which it has established. This is what I want it to do. I do not want it to be limited only to sales to which the flexible reserve price scheme applies, that is, sales by auction. This seems to me to be fairly reasonable. I cannot see that there is anything very drastic about trying to do this. 
In passing I point out that clause 41 refers to clause 38 (l.)(d). It does not refer to paragraphs (a) (b) and (c). lt refers to paragraph (d). The reserve price scheme is mentioned in a separate fashion in clause 38 (l.)(a). This does not apply to clause 38 (1.) (d). I repeat that clause 41 refers to clause 38(l.)(d). If honourable senators read clause 41 (l.)(a) they will see that in the middle of the clause an arrangement is referred to. It states:   . . with arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) of sub-section (1.) of section 38 . . . 
What I want to do is apply the  same  arrangements. While we are looking at clause 41 I would also draw attention to paragraph (c) which says:  the Corporation, as and when it thinks expedient, re-offers for sale at auction, or otherwise disposes of, wool acquired by it under the scheme. 
The Minister has explained what it means. What I am saying is that it refers to the operation by the Corporation of the flexible reserve price scheme, and this is stated in the first line of clause 41. Therefore the Bill states that the Corporation can otherwise dispose of wool acquired by it under the flexible reserve price scheme. So why not add the words 'or otherwise' to clause 38 (1.) (a) and make it consistent? 
 I think  Senator Little  is getting mixed up between the operation of a reserve price scheme and a woo] deficiency payments scheme. 
 I am only trying to help. The argument that  Senator Little  brought up was that you would not be able to run around to all the various producers, ask them if they had sold any wool this week to a private buyer and then work out the reserve price. This is not a reserve price scheme. We have a deficiency payment scheme to find out what amount of wool has been sold in a week and to determine the percentage that will be paid that week for the wool that has been sold. 
That has nothing to do with it. The private buyer arrives at the price which he will pay for wool. For instance, the Corporation is selling wool at, say, 40c at auction under the reserve price scheme. The reserve price that week is determined on the basis of the demand for wool. It is a flexible reserve price that operates and can change from week to week and even from hour to hour. 
The reserve price is that which the Corporation determines is reasonable and flexible. If the auction price was about 300 cents a kilogramme, do you think the flexible price scheme would come into operation and say that 40c must be charged? 
Of course it would not. There would not be a flexible price scheme that week at all. The point is that the farmer who wishes to sell his wool to a buyer will say: 'The flexible price appeared to be 40c last week. Will you now pay 41c?' What is the argument? The wool grower will get his 40c. I do not see that this would affect it. But if the wool grower goes to the Corporation and says: Will you buy my wool? I want to get rid of it. I do not believe in the auction system. Will you buy it or shall I send it straight to England, the Continent or Japan and try to sell it there?' The Corporation is empowered to buy the wool. The Wool Corporation would say to the wool grower: 'All right. We will buy your wool and we will give you, based on last year's operation on the auction market, the reserve price'. This is whatI think would happen. Therefore you would have to add or otherwise' or you would not be able to meet that position. 
I rise-- 
Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate 1 formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly). 
 I think we have talked about this Bill for long enough. We spent a couple of hours debating this question last night and I think that any reiteration of the arguments that I put forward would only bring the same reply from the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  as I have already received. I think that the Minister very ably posed the questions which would be before the Corporation in making its inquiries. That is the sort of thing I would have anticipated the Corporation would do. I think the questions are very relevant but they are not questions which concern us at the moment except as the Minister pointed out, they would take some time to resolve. I am not concerned about whether they take some time but I think we could have a report within a reasonable time. That is where we disagree. I think that within 6 months the Corporation, in a report covering that period, could give a very good indication of the progress made. 
Like the Minister, I did not stop thinking about this Bill when the Senate adjourned at 11 p.m. last night. I worried about our different approaches to it. I know that the Minister is just as concerned as I am about the wool industry. He is looking honestly at the industry as he and the Government see it, and I am looking honestly at the industry as I and many on the Opposition side see it. It seems to boil down to a fundamental point of view. I believe that this Bill gives a considerable amount of protection to the auction system, and also that the Government is prepared to accept the auction system as being the most reasonable way of disposing of the wool clip. I admit that for many years the auction system has been a very good means of moving our wool from the producer to the miller but latterly wool buyers have discovered ways of manipulating the auction system to their advantage and to the disadvantage of the producers. I believe that the auction system has gone far enough. 
That is the main reason I am opposing this measure and asking the Committee to accept our amendment requesting inquiry into and urgent report on an acquisition scheme. I and many on my side believe that the auction system is not the sole way of disposing of wool. I do not expect the Minister to reply to the opinion I have expressed because he already has stated his position clearly. I think that the matter should be put to the vote. 
To this clause I shall be moving the last amendment which has been circulated in my name and which deals with the powers of the Corporation. Those powers are set out in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of the clause. The powers are comprehensive, but they do not authorise the Corporation to operate, if required, as an authority handling the acquisition of the Australian wool clip. It can do anything bar that. Without going into lengthy argument about this proposition, which involves simply adding a further power to the power of the Corporation, I move: 
After paragraph (g) add the following new paragraph: 
make arrangements for the operation of an approved marketing scheme to acquire and/ or market the Australian wool clip. 
The inclusion of this provision in the legislation would not mean that the Corporation would be bound to implement an acquisition scheme. It would be empowered to do so only if, as a result of the report to the Parliament of an inquiry which will be held by it into the advisability of an approved acquisition marketing scheme being put into effect, the Corporation wished to carry out such a scheme. I hope the Senate appreciates the full implications of the acceptance of this amendment, I repeat that it would not bind the 
Corporation to do anything at ail at this stage but would only authorise it to act in the event of an inquiry bringing down a report that  it  would be advantageous to the wool industry to do so. 
Before the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  replies, perhaps I might answer the matter raised by  Senator Little.  Perhaps the Minister can then reply to both of us at the same time. If  Senator Little  reads the amendment again he will see that the sub-clause that we are attempting to amend in clause 38 deals with the functions of the Corporation in relation to wool marketing. 
 I do not know whether the honourable senator actually understood that it dealt with functions. Clause 40 deals with the specific powers of the Corporation. The note alongside the clause says: 
Specific powers of Corporation in relation to wool marketing. 
If we look at the powers we see, as I said in introducing my amendment, that there are these ones to inspect and appraise wool, to buy wool at auction or otherwise, to sell wool the property of the Corporation and other powers included in subclauses (a) to (g). These are the powers that the Corporation is being given. To these we have suggested that there should also be added the power to make arrangements for the operation of an approved marketing scheme to acquire wool.  Senator 
Little asks what authority there will be for the Corporation to make the decision. I thought that I explained this quite sensibly in my reference to the results of the inquiry that will be made by the Corporation. Then we will determine whether or not we want an acquisition scheme. At this point when the decision has been reached by the Government - not by the Corporation because it only submits a report - the Corporation could then move ahead under the terms of our amendment and make arrangements for the operation of an approved acquisition scheme. I think that with that explanation the Minister will see just what it was that we were aiming at. 
It will not take us very long to deal with the Nitrogenous Fertlizers Subsidy Bill 1972. I think that we can appreciate the fact that this legislation which I think has been in operation since 1966 has been of considerable benefit to the farming community. This Bill will extend the operation of the present Act which would cease on the last day of this month to 31st December 1974. The reason why this odd sort of time interval has been arranged is to bring it into line with the expiry date for the Phohsphate Fertilizers Bounty Act. Both Acts will then cease at the same time. As was mentioned by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in the second reading speech, the opportunity is also taken in this Bill to convert the values to metric measure. The proposed date of conversion is 1st July 1973. This Bill will retain the same subsidy of $80 per ton or, converting it into metric measurements, it will be $78.74 per tonne. Another feature of the Bill is that it will enable the importers also to obtain a subsidy whether or not they are users. The present Act applies only to producers who are users. The Opposition finds nothing to object to in this Bill. We will support it. 
 I wish to raise a point very quickly. This is not a great problem so far as the Bill is concerned. During the process of change over in the application of the metric system we will be in some difficulty. This will not occur in 2 years time when we have converted to all metric operation. But how do we differentiate between $80 per ton and $78.74 per tonne? 
You pronounce ton' and 'tonne' the same? 
This is the awkward part, unless when you pronounce the word you emphasise the 'e' That is why I spelt the word when I mentioned it previously. It makes the position a little confusing and it could work to the detriment of a buyer. He could buy a commodity at  a  different price per ton. From the actual phraseology he would not know that there was a different quantity. This is the point which disturbs me. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (4.56) -I promise that I will bring the point raised by  Senator Wilkinson  to the attention of the Department. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I come back to the first point I made. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  will no doubt reply to all questions In due course. When I brought forward my first point in relation to extra information being made available to Senate Estimates Committee B I was in no way being critical of the Postmaster-General's Department. I appreciate the fact that the Department has adopted the same procedure ever since a trust account was set up in the Post Office. I admit that the Post Office has adopted the same procedure each year ever since the inauguration of the trust account. Ever since the introduction of the trust account in the Post Office I have objected to the paucity of information that comes from the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I am not blaming the Department. I am complaining because this provision has been allowed to appear as a one-line entry. 
When the Minister said that the Estimates Committee was to consider $288m, which is a lot of money, as a one line entry 1 contended that the amount of $288m was required only because the estimated receipts of $988 were not sufficient for the total work they wanted to carry out. The Department had to ask for another $288m. If this is the case, :t is necessary for the Senate Estimates Com mittee to scrutinise the use to which the Department will put this S9S8m. That is all I am asking for. 
It has not been provided. 
I admit that a White Paper on Post Office prospects was prepared by the Post Office and made available to the Estimates Committee. I do admit that a report was made available to the Estimates Committee. 1 also admit that 2 red documents were made available to the Estimates Committee. The titles of the documents are different; one has its title placed in the middle of the cover and the other has its title at the top of the cover. They are different. 
You are perfectly correct. I am not objecting. 
I think that you,  Mr Chairman,  are able to understand that I am not making any complaints against the Post Office. Friends of mine working in the Post Office will appreciate that I am not complaining. This document was given to us at our request because the Estimates Committee felt that it was necessary to look at the amount of money that had been estimated as receipts for the coming year and was intended to be spent by the Department. It should be open to scrutiny. 
When an amount of $ 1,000m is involved, 1 think the Estimates Committee has to look at it. The Estimates Committee should not be left to say: 'This is beyond us; we will not look at it'. We have to look at it whether we like it or not. If it involves some hard work we still have to look at it. 1 admit that it cannot be done now but I seek an assurance from the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral that the other document containing full information be made available to the Senate in succeeding years. I see nothing wrong with that request in order to allow the Estimates Committee to have a look at the estimated receipts and estimated expenditure of the Department. I do not think that my friends in the Post Office would object to that course being followed. All I ask the Minister to say is that he will endeavour to have this done each year. I do not want to be told that the third document which was brought forward after the Estimates Committee had concluded its meetings will take the place of the original document. I do not think it contains all the information that the original document has. I seek an assurance along these lines from the Minister. If we do not get that assurance the matter will have to be taken further. I seek that assurance so that the estimates of the Post Office can be looked at realistically. 
I want to enter this debate only briefly to clear up some ideas in the minds of some honourable senators in regard to the Bill.  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Guilfoyle  spoke on the lines of the Bill, but 1 was disturbed at the understanding of this Bill shown by  Senator Little  and  Senator Webster.  This was one of the problems facing the Opposition with this Bill because there seemed to be in the minds of a number of people some doubt as to what a child care Bill was and whether it also included a pre-school Bill. They are 2 totally different things. A preschool teachers association would be entirely separate from a child care association. When  Senator Little  said that he did not want child care for every child in Australia and that he did not want the sort of system that existed in the Australian Capital Territory, I do not know whether he was aware of the system in Canberra. The pre-school system in Canberra which caters for a large number of children does not take the children for more than half a day. It takes one group in the morning and another group in the afternoon. The children are not separated from their families. 
A child care situation is entirely different. It is a situation in which the mother has to work and an endeavour is made to give that mother some assistance by looking after the children while she is unfortunately unable to do so. Child care would provide care for the child all day. The Opposition felt that this was one of the areas that was not spelt out properly. We did not want necessarily to provide child care for every child in Australia. What we would like to see would be a preschool education for every child, which is an entirely different proposition. The Government has recognised some of these points and has written into the Bill the provision that those in charge of child care centres should be approved by the child care association. This is a different sort of proposition altogether. All I want to do is clear up some of these misconceptions because there is quite a difference of opinion as to what is meant.  Senator Guilfoyle  and  Senator Gietzelt  knew, but I do not think anybody else knew. I hope the Minister understands the difference between them and knows that a child care centre is not a pre-school centre. That is where our difficulty lies. This Bill receives our support but we feel that the amendment should be passed to try to help the matter. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware that, on a television interview on 8th July this year,  Mr Vines, Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission, in answer to a question asking whether there was enough information already to put a wool acquisition plan into operation said: 
I do not think there is any doubt abou: thu. The short answer to your question is yes. We have all the techniques. We have the professional staff now available to do it. 

 Mr Vines said further that the information had been passed to the Government. Does the Minister still believe that the new Wool Corporation would not be able to submit a report within 6 months? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister say when the Australian Wool Industry Conference will bring down its report on its inquiry into the feasibility of acquisition and/or marketing of the Australian wool clip? 
 Senator Webster,  I gave you a fair degree of latitude. I was of the opinion that you were making another speech on the second reading and I was doubtful whether 1 should allow you to continue with your remarks because 1 could not see where you were associating them with any clause in the Bill. You were asking a question of the Minister as to how these pensions were to be paid. I could not see that this question was involved but I let you go. I think you should allow the Minister to reply now in his own way without interjection. 
So far as the making of arrangements for the payment of pensions is concerned, I have indicated that the Department's attitude is that it will use the overseas posts of Australia, and there are some 88 or 90 of those. Where it is not possible for such posts to be used the Department will be adopting the system that has been used by the Repatriation Department for some years. I understand that the Repatriation Department is paying war service pensions in most parts of the world. It is impossible to say at this stage what manner or means will be necessary to make payments to people who go abroad when we as a Government do not know to which parts of the world they will go. In order to see that proper financial arrangements are made - it is impossible at this stage to make better arrangements - if necessary the cheque will be made payable to the person concerned via the financial representative of the Australian Government in Geneva. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in last Thursday's 'Australian' by the former Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair?  Does the Minister basically agree with  Mr Sinclair's  views as stated in the article that agricultural policies should ensure that production relates to market- demand and does he agree with his advocacy of rural adjustment policies? 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that plans are well under way for the production of a third daily newspaper in Perth? Has he been informed of resistance to it from the established newspapers in the provision of news services and newsprint? What measures, if any, can he take to prevent discriminatory or restrictive practices in this respect? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise and refer to the question asked by  Senator Durack  last Wednesday in relation to the collection of Spanish coins taken from the wreck of the Dutch ship 'Gilt Dragon' which foundered on a reef 3 miles off the Western Australian coast in 1656. Is it possible for the Minister to use any powers under the Customs Act to make sure that this valuable collection remains in Australian hands? 
 Senator Rae  has moved 3 amendments which I suggest might conveniently be taken as one amendment. Is it the wish of the Committee that the 3 amendments be taken as one amendment? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to; report adopted. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise. What steps are being taken by Australian law enforcement authorities to assist overseas agencies in the apprehension of international narcotic traffickers? 
 I present the report and transcript of evidence relating to the inquiry into AustraliaNew Zealand trade by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In October last in an interim report to the Senate, the Committee explained the reasons why it chose to examine trade between Australia and New Zealand within the broad terms of reference concerning the promotion of trade and commerce with other countries, the operation of Australia's international trade agreements and the development of trading relations. In a subject such as AustraliaNew Zealand trade it is necessary to determine the parameters within which the Committee will conduct its inquiry so as to enable the work to be done within a reasonable time and so that the findings might have more immediate relevance to a current situation. Accordingly, the Committee has concentrated its attention upon the aims and operation of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, the actual trade and shipping. The Committee also gave consideration to competition and co-operation between the 2 countries in third markets, tourism, defence procurement, trade promotion and the concept of freer trade. 
Patterns of trade are established between countries over a period of time, and they are based upon traditional links between exporters and customers, the ability of one country to supply goods to the specification and price of another, access to the market, availability of goods and so on. Nevertheless, trade is dynamic. Thus, individual industries and the exchange of specific goods and products can respond quite rapidly to economic changes in one or another country. This has been no less true to the context of Australia-New Zealand trade and it must be recognised that some observations made by the Committee will need to be viewed in the light of changes which may occur in world commodity markets and continuing uncertainties in the international monetary situation. The Committee's report is presented on the basis that particular circumstances prevailed or certain factors were in operation at the time it concluded its deliberations. 
There is nothing dramatically new in what the Committee has to say, as most of the problems indicated are long-standing ones or have been known for some time. On the other hand the report is very worthwhile because it suggests ways in which problem areas might be dealt with to the mutual benefit of industries and consumers in both countries. The Committee has been surprised to note the apparent lack of understanding of the aspirations of competing industries on both sides of the Tasman, particularly in the light of the close communication that exists between Australia and New Zealand and their affinity in so many spheres of cultural and commercial activity. 
The Committee received a good response from Australian companies and industry organisations, as well as the then Department of Trade and Industry, for evidence and submissions. The response from New Zealand interests was disappointing. Although some direct evidence was received from New Zealand the Committee has had to base its observations mainly on information derived from secondary sources. This difficulty indicates the need for committees to have some flexibility in regard to the gathering of evidence and information from overseas primary sources, either through visits by, say, two or more members of the committee to the other country for on the spot investigation and absorption of attitudes prevailing in that country, or by bringing selected persons to Australia. I would hope that, when appropriate, this aspect  of  the Committee's operation will be recognised as a valid and integral means of inquiry and be given favourable consideration. 
Our examination of the trade has resulted in a number of recommendations framed with a view to assisting in the often expressed desire by Ministers and businessmen in both countries to move more rapidly towards efficient and productive use of the total resources of the area. Comments are made also in regard to other aspects of the trade which, we trust, will be considered by governments and the business community alike in the constructive spirit with which they are made. The inquiry covered diverse areas  of  the trade and it is particularly pleasing for me to say that, apart from a specific reservation by  Senator Lillico  in relation to the pea and bean industry, there has been complete unanimity in the presentation of the report.  I  remind honourable senators that the report which I now present examines only one area of the Senate's request to the Committee  to  examine the promotion of trade and to report from time to time on the operation of Aus&lt;tralia's international free trade agreements and the development of trading relations. The Committee has at this point interpreted the reference as giving it discretion to determine the aspects of Australian trade which it should examine. However, in the light of current developments in trading relationships, the Senate may care to consider directing the Committee to explore specific areas which the Senate believes should have priority. 
I express my sincere appreciation to my fellow Committee members for the support they have given. I gratefully acknowledge the willingness of senators to make themselves available for extended periods of Committee meetings, often at considerable personal inconvenience.  I  would like also on behalf  of  the Committee to recognise the diligence and effort devoted to the inquiry by those senators who were associated with the Committee in the previous Parliament.  Senator Prowse  served as  Chairman  throughout the period during which formal evidence was taken and the Committee has benefited greatly from the valuable work done by him during that time. Similarly, the Committee is appreciative  of  the contributions made by Senators Durack, 
Kane, Primmer and Wriedt in their period of service on the Committee. I commend the report to honourable senators and seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise. Did the Western Australian Premier recently express his concern at the vulnerability of his State to illicit drug importation through the northern coastline of Western Australia? Has the Minister any evidence that drugs are being landed on the north-west or northern coastline? Is the Minister satisfied with the controls which currently exist in these areas? 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The Minister for Primary Industry informed the Senate last session that a close study is being made by his departmental officers of proposals for a new wheat stabilisation scheme. Can the Minister say whether a new scheme is likely to be announced in the near future? 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to an article by  Mr Gordon  Messiter which appeared in yesterday's edition of the Canberra Times'. Does the Minister agree with  Mr Messiter's  advocacy of the wearing of crash helmets by motor cyclists? Does he endorse  Mr Messiter's  denunciation of the arguments used by opponents of the compulsory wearing of crash helmets? 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether the 40 per cent rise in the consumer price index since December is due principally to increased meat prices? Are the higher prices of meat caused by primary producers demanding the increase or by meat buyers paying an amount based on world prices? 
In concluding the debate on the report on 'Australia- New Zealand Trade ' by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade I want to say that there is not much which has not been covered by the various speakers. I am particularly pleased that so many of the past and present members of the Committee spoke about the report. I am more than pleased that  Senator Cotton,  who was not a member, spoke in appreciative terms of the report. This indicated that he had looked at it very carefully. He appreciated a number of the points made and in general he was in agreement with the conclusions reached. I feel that I should pay a tribute to the past  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Prowse,  for the work that he did. I mentioned this point in my opening remarks some months ago. He was very closely concerned with the operation of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement and what it meant to Australia. He spoke in appreciation of the work of the Committee members. I found that their efforts continued and that they displayed devotion to their work to see that something was done. 
I want to make passing reference to the reservation which  Senator Lillico  added to the Committee 's report and to the speech that he made the other day. In view of the increased importation of peas and beans in recent years he was quite entitled to stress this point in the Committee 's work and in the speech he made. 
-The ' point he made was that imports from New Zealand were affecting Tasmanian producers. He thought that that matter ought to be given considerable emphasis. While I and the Committee agree with that point we felt that it should be taken in the context of the entire Agreement.  Senator Lillico  and the Tasmanian producers are quite entitled to express their view but I think it is important for us to remember that the trade in peas and beans represents only about 1 per cent of the total trade between Australia and New Zealand. Therefore I think we should keep that matter in perspective when looking at the entire Agreement. The honourable senator, in bringing down his reservation, stressed the composition of the panels. I think it would be a good thing to bring to the notice of the Senate, particularly if honourable senators have glossed over this point, the statement made at page 77 of the report about this particular panel. The report states: 
It is a matter of concern to the Committee that the NAFTA provisions have apparently stultified and prevented the Australian pea and bean industry from expanding at the rate it should have during its early years of establishment. There is evidence to suggest that the Agreement has not greatly benefited the New Zealand growers either, but that the benefits have accrued to the processors. There is no evidence to indicate that the ultimate consumers have benefited from competitive retail pricing. 
The report goes on to state: 
The Committee also notes with concern the basis upon which membership of the industry and joint panels is established and believes that it is inequitable that processors should have a majority interest in the deliberations of both panels. It is also of great concern that, through mergers and inter-company arrangements, the same companies may be represented on the panels of both countries. The Committee is of the opinion that the two Governments should examine this aspect to ensure that such dual representation does not occur. 
The Committee was emphasising the point that  Senator Lillico  made in his reservations. I think what I read covers the objections that he raised to the report.  His  point was that this matter had not been properly emphasised. I think the report covered this point. 
Turning now to the Committee's recommendations, three of the 14 recommendations specifically refer to the pea and bean trade. I think that reveals that a very fair emphasis was placed in our recommendations on the whole of the trade covered by NAFTA. In addition to the 3 recommendations I mentioned, the Committee also made this recommendation: 
That procedures be instituted to provide for swift consultation on imports where a potentially damaging situation arises. 
I think that that was the main point emphasised by  Senator Lillico  and we brought it out in the report. We recommended that if any producers or any industry was going to be disadvantaged by the operations of NAFTA the matter should be looked at straight away. 
This report having brought down, I think it is worth while considering whether any implementation of its recommendations has taken place. It is pleasing to note that specific observations and recommendations of the Committee have been acted upon one way or another by the Government. I want to refer specifically to a few of these matters. The Government adopted the practice of publishing details of proposed arrangements under paragraph 7 of Article 3. The Committee sought this action as a means of informing industry of what is happening in this area and of encouraging other companies to engage in this trade. Both the Australian and New Zealand Governments have announced their desire to promote a further organisation of trade through more effective operation of NAFTA and through the use of resources. A review of NAFTA is being undertaken with a view to introducing new transitional positions. The Ministers of both countries have announced that a common rule of origin will be adopted and implemented from 1 July next year. It will be based on a 50 per cent area content criterion. These, I think, are very important methods of dealing with the matter, and the Government has adopted them already. They are mentioned and emphasised in our report. 

 Senator Young mentioned the position in relation to shipping. Shipping presents a continuing problem in that it is basically inefficient. Also, it is undesirable for a monopoly situation to prevail in the trans-Tasman trade. The Trade Ministers of both countries have drawn attention to this factor. Recent reports have been to the effect that the New Zealand Government is planning to establish its own national line to counter the monopoly of the Union Steam Ship Company of New Zealand Ltd. Ths move might be even more disadvantageous to Australia unless the Australian Government adopts the same procedure and arranges for and Australian flag carrier to enter the trade, whether it be the Australian National Line or some other carrier. 
I want to draw attention also to the 25 per cent across the board tariff reduction. It was designed to alleviate pressures of demand in Australia. Nevertheless, it has given New Zealand an added advantage over Australian manufacturers in the Australian market. This happened after the Committee had completed its report. It seems to me that the New Zealand Government should make a move to bring in a compensating tariff reduction applicable only to Australian goods. In this way the tariff cuts in Australia would be seen too as a significant move towards the freeing of trade between the 2 countries. This point is more relevant when it is considered that the New Zealand Government now proposes to continue its use of import licensing as a means of protection. 
The Committee sees its work as having added materially to the total knowledge of AustraliaNew Zealand trade and as a worthwhile - 
-Senator Lillico interrupted me in the middle of a sentence in which I was dealing with the Committee's work as the Committee saw it. I have already drawn attention to the fact that in our report we made mention of these interacting companies which are operating on the pea and bean panels of both countries. I had mentioned that matter before the honourable senator came into the chamber. We emphasised it in the report and I have emphasised it again in this speech. I am not decrying what the honourable senator said at all; I am agreeing with the emphasis that he places on this matter because of the particular interest of Tasmania. But I do not think there is any need to deal with that matter further. The Committee's report emphasises this point. Before I was interrupted by  Senator  Lillico I  was saying that in our report we have tried to make a worthwhile contribution towards NAFTA. This Agreement comes up for renewal in another 3 years. It has only 3 years to run. It definitely is not working as well as it was hoped it would. It has a number of very important advantages, but it has not worked out as it was hoped it would. 
In conclusion- I do not think anybody has done this, with the exception of  Senator Youngas  the  Chairman  of the Committee, I pay a tribute to the very good work that has been done on our report by our secretarial staff. They have assisted us in every possible way and I think that our thanks are due to them in particular. I commend the adoption of the report. 
I want to enter this debate for a few moments to present some points of view that I believe are important. As a former employee of the Post Office I understand quite a few of the problems and appreciate the difficulties probably better than do most other senators. Whilst I support the 3 Bills before the Senate, I do so with some feeling of doubt about what would be the best procedure to follow. I would like to outline to the Senate the proposition that I see facing the Post Office at present. We want the Post Office to give to the people of Australia a considerable number of facilities and at the same time we expect that organisation not to increase its charges in order to provide those facilities, which in many cases are almost a gift. At the same time we expect the Post Office to operate as a business concern and to cover its expenditure by income. But the Post Office cannot do this if it is to provide the facilities for which everybody is asking. I would like to outline some of these facilities. 

 Senator Lawrie mentioned at the end of his speech that the Post Office provided country telephone lines within a radius of 15 miles from an established exchange. When this scheme was introduced by the previous Postmaster-General a tremendous expenditure was added to the normal operations of the Post Office. This decision has resulted in a tremendous backlog of connections for would-be country subscribers, because the Post Office just has not been able to cope with the problem of providing this service to all the country subscribers who require a telephone. The number of deferred applications has increased. I have made a number of approaches, as I am sure other honourable senators have, on behalf of primary producers asking why their applications which may have been in for a couple of years have not progressed any further forward. If one talks to the engineering sections of the Post Office, as I do because I know them personally in my State, one is told that the cost of providing the bulldozers and heavy equipment that is necessary to clear a route to take out one pair of wires a distance of up to 15 miles to an area that has no other telephone on the way reaches tremendous proportions. They say that it costs a minimum of $1000 to install a telephone over the easiest route. The installation of these telephone lines has increased tremendously the cost to the Post Office. 
The same thing applies to other services that are asked for by subscribers. We have the same situation on the postal side when we talk about trying to give every person in the country a newspaper at a cheap rate of delivery. It applies to all the organisations which bring out monthly journals and to business concerns, unions, church bodies and so on that publish monthly journals which used to be placed in the category which allowed them to obtain cheap postal delivery. All of these things cost money. We are expecting these operations to be carried out without any increase in the charges that the Post Office imposes to make ends meet. The same thing applies to telegrams. A telegram is sent in Australia, as it is in Great Britain, at considerable loss. This is a service that the public demands. Yet, it is a tremendous cost to the Post Office. This service is not covered by the price of the telegram. Although the Post Office tries to meet the cost as far as is possible the service is run at a loss. 
My solution which I always advocated when I was in the Post Office and which I have advocated since- and I sent a submission to the Commission inquiring into the Post Office along these lines, and we do not know yet what the report of the Royal Commission will be- is that if the public wants these services the public should see that it gets them, but not at the expense of the Post Office. The cost of these services to my mind is a legitimate charge against the Treasury. The Treasury should pay for the extra facilities. When the British Post Office was turned into a corporation it was charged with running its business as a business concern and charged with running at a profit. After the corporation commenced operation it called together the responsible people in the government and discussed the position. It said: 'We cannot run the second rate postage facility at a profit. This is an impossibility'. It said that if the public required this facility it would have to be made a charge on the Treasury. The same thing applies to telegrams in England. These requests were met by the Treasury. 
So instead of the Australian Post Office having to put up its charges, my solution is that it would be possible to keep the charges at a reasonable level and still provide the facilities for which the public is asking. The people do not care whether the Post Office runs at a profit or not. They just want to get their newspapers at a reduced rate. They want to get their telephone line provided free of charge within a radius of IS miles from an exchange. They want to get their telegrams sent at the present rate or even lower. They do not mind how this is done, as long as they get these benefits. I believe that what is proposed in the legislation before us is an interim measure. I think that the legislation will need changing again when we have the report of the commission of inquiry. I agree that it may be some time before we have the results of that body. But in the meantime we have to do something. This is why the 3 Bills have had to be presented. 
I think I have made my position clear. I feel that this is a very ineffectual way of meeting the problem. The Post Office will get blamed for the extra charges when it is only trying to provide a service for which no one will meet the cost in any other way. I support the Bills on the restricted basis that I have just outlined. I hope that at some date in the near future we will be able to approach this problem from a much more realistic point of view and give a service to the people as well as doing our duty to the Post Office. 
Perhaps I can bring a little light on clause 13. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator Wood)-  We are debating clause 3? 
The Opposition brought clause 13 into the discussion. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN-  I know. The Committee decided, strongly against the advice of the Chair, to consider the Bill clause by clause so the honourable senator has to put up with it. 

 -But Senator Greenwood has been discussing clause 13. I want to bring some other points forward to assist in the argument. What are we going to do about it? Are you going to let  Senator Greenwood  talk about clause 13 and not permit me to do so? We wanted the discussion on the whole Bill. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN- I will put the question again. Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bill be taken as a whole? 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN -The ayes have it. That course will be followed. 
The Bill. 
Under clause 13 the declaration is to be taken by officers when they join the Postal Department. When they first join they have to take an oath and that oath is administered by a Justice of the Peace. It is now suggested that it may be administered by a postmaster. A person then becomes a member of the Public Service and a member of the Postal Department. Certain people are selected, because of their qualifications, to be authorised officers in an investigation branch. These are the only people who have anything to do with watching over the security of  the Post Office. These authorised officers already have taken the ordinary oath administered when they joined the Department. An authorised officer is defined as a person whose duties are or include the investigation of possible offences against this Act. That person is appointed in writing by the Postmaster-General as an authorised officer. That appointment is something far greater than that held by the ordinary telephone girl, the telephone mechanic or the clerk. These are people who are specially authorised to conduct investigation work. 
-No. If something is to be done in a country town a person from the investigation branch is sent there from the capital city. I think this clause is in order. It does not allow anybody to become an authorised person indiscriminately at the wish of a postmaster. These people have to be appointed as ordinary officers and the special qualifications are made in writing by the Postmaster-General. I think that the clause should stand and I hope that we accept it in the way that it is submitted. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Statements have been made to the effect that the Australian Government now has refused to honour its commitment to provide Sim to assist the State governments and wheat growers to combat grain infestation. Can the Minister indicate whether these reports are correct and, if so, why is the Government now going back on this undertaking? 
This is rather peculiar. I am not the Minister, although the former Minister,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  continued to look at me while he was speaking to his amendment. I should like some explanation so that I am clear as to what he is doing. It has always been my impression that definitions explain a word or words which appear in an Act. Clause 3 states: 'In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears' such and such means so and so. I am just wondering whether the phrase 'export meat inspection costs' will occur in the Act. I do not think it will. If  Senator Drake-Brockman  wants a further provision included in the Bill, I cannot see that he can do it by moving this amendment. I should like some further explanation from him as to what is intended. Perhaps I am quite wrong in my interpretation, but it seems to me that  Senator Drake-Brockman  is attempting to insert into the Act a definition which will not refer to any word or words appearing in the Act. 
I ask for leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
The Minister for Primary Industry may be aware that there is a widespread belief within the wheat industry that the money which is likely to be paid into the stabilisation fund by growers this year and which could amount to $45 m will not be carried over to any new stabilisation scheme but will be simply absorbed into Commonwealth revenue. Can he say whether this belief is correct? 
-I ask leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Further to the question asked by  Senator Young  earlier, is it a fact that the present Government will completely eliminate the means test in the lifetime of this Parliament. 
-Can the Minister for the Media say whether any competitive awards are given in this country to encourage the standard of quality of the Australian film industry? Is the Government doing anything to build up the prestige of the industry in this country? 
Yesterday the Committee postponed further consideration of clause 3 as amended and of clause 4 and the amendment moved thereto by  Senator Rae  to enable it to consider amendments to insert new clauses 4a and 4b. Is it the wish of the Committee to return now to clause 3 as amended? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Clause 3 (Definitions). 

 - Senator Rae, I ask you to keep to the actual amendment. 
If the Minister would prefer to follow this course, we may as well do so. 
I acknowledge that this is basically a statement of Labor Party philosophy and policy in relation to education. It is a matter on which I think there has probably been a difference of opinion between the various groups interested both in education and politics in Australia. I am not necessarily saying that the two are entirely divisible, either. But we would suggest that it is an improvement to state it in the following way:  the obligation for governments to provide or assist in the provision and maintenance of educational opportunities for all children which are of the highest standard and which recognise the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children and where provided and maintained by or on behalf of a government ensure that these opportunities are open without fees or religious tests to all children; 
I recognise immediately and believe that I should point out to the Senate that the principal change there is the deletion of the word 'primary' in relation to the obligation. The Bill as drafted draws attention to the belief that there should be a primary obligation to provide government schools. It is our very firm belief as an Opposition that the obligation of governments which, amongst other things, require all children with a very limited number of special exceptions to undergo education, is an obligation of that government to ensure that educational facilities of the highest standards are available. It is not a matter of the government's ensuring that all children attend government schools. I do not think that anyone goes that far. But once you go beyond that point, the question is how best do you describe it. Do you say that government has a primary obligation to provide for government schools? Do you say that government has an obligation to ensure that its assistance is available to provide the best standard of education, be it within a government school, be it within a nongovernment school which is related to a particular religious belief of the people who conduct it, be it related to a non-government school conducted by people who have particular views in relation to progressive education or be it a nongovernment school where people simply find it convenient, because of the absence of a government school, to group together to form a school which is of acceptable standard to the education department of the State which licences schools, as the Minister said in his second reading speech. 
We believe it is a fair and appropriate way to describe the obligation of government to say that it is directed towards the provision of educational facilities. This does not say anything about what is the obligation in relation to funding them. What it says is that the obligation is for governments to provide or assist in the provision ' and maintenance of educational opportunities. The maintaining may simply be seen to be maintaining without necessarily taking over all or part of the funding. 
The third amendment which we would suggest is that regard should be had to the rights and powers pursuant to the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act of the State governments in relation to education. As I have pointed out the Minister himself repeatedly said in his second reading speech and the Karmel Committee said at page  132  of its report that the constitutional responsibility does lie primarily with the States as does the present commitment. The members of the Committee did say that they were against a centralist approach in educaiton. We are simply saying that what they have accepted should be written into the matters to which the Commission shall have regard. I again draw attention to the fact that the Minister at pages  1635  and  1636  of Hansard of  27  September  1973  is reported as having made particular reference to this aspect. 
I pass now to the next question which concerns the need for research into education standards, quality, variety and opportunities in Australia. I was somewhat disappointed to find that research seemed to rate a fairly low level of appreciation by the draftsman of the Bill. This matter is dealt with in clause 13 (4) (b) which states, concerning the Commission: 
. may undertake, and cause to be undertaken, such research as it thinks necessary that relates to the functions of the Commission. 
But that is a different question. We believe the Commission should have regard, in the recommendations that it makes, to the importance of carrying out the functions which it has. It should have regard to the need for research into education standards, quality, variety and opportunities in Australia. This we believe is important in the overall development of the grand design which it may be possible to produce for the improvement of education in Australia. The Commission simply cannot have that limited function which is referred to in clause 13 (4) (b) which states that the Commission may undertake, or cause to be undertaken, such research as it thinks necessary. It has to design research so that it can play a part in the whole of the structuring of education in Australia so that the recommendations which the Commission makes can be carried out at particular schools within systems in the various ways in which it is desirable. 
The next and final point in this sub-clause which we regard as important is the maintenance of the improvement of the quality of education available to all the students attending primary and secondary schools. It may be that it is unnecessary to emphasise that, but it does not appear in any of the lists in which the Government has set out seriatim the matters to which particular regard should be had. We would have thought that this would have probably been one of the important considerations. The Government's Bill does refer to the need to encourage diversity and innovation in education. It refers to the need to stimulate and encourage public and private interest. We totally support those proposals but for some strange reason the Government seems to have omitted the important item of the general improvement and quality of education. In relation to that, one can have regard to the importance of the standard of teaching, for instance. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Order! It being 4.30 p.m. and pursuant to Order of the Senate, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business at 4.30 p.m. 
Order!  Senator Wright,  will you confine your remarks to clause 20? 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bills be taken as a whole? 
Motion (by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) proposed: 
1 ) That clauses 1 to 6 and the First Schedule be postponed until after the consideration of the Second Schedule; (2) that, unless otherwise ordered, the votes in the Second Schedule be considered in the same groupings and order as in the Estimates Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Second Schedule. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $37,85 1,000. 
Order!  Senator McLaren,  it seems to me that this matter could have been raised at the second reading stage if you had wished to raise it. At the moment we are dealing with the proposed expenditure for the AttorneyGeneral's Department. I do not consider that the matter which you are now raising can justifiably be raised under that heading. The matter relates to the operation of Estimates Committee A, and I think that it could be raised at another time. 
The question is that I report a resolution to the Senate that the Committee has resolved to insist upon the amendments of the Senate to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
Question put. 
Order!  Senator Rae,  please continue. 
But as for the suggestion that the failure to have State boards and instead to increase the membership of the Commission to fifteen would in any way destroy this concept, it is quite clear that a much greater liaison could be had with all the States by this means than by imposing some intermediary organisation which will only create a bureaucracy and slow down the progress of the Schools Commission. Rather than help, it will almost certainly hinder development in Aus.tralia. But as I indicated in my remarks during the debate at the second reading stage and consideration of the Bill during the Committee stage, if it turns out that for good reason which is explained fully by the Schools Commission there cannot be a satisfactory organisation of the Schools Commission without regional advisory boards then the Opposition is quite happy to reconsider the matter. The firm view that we hold at the moment is that these regional boards would be a hindrance rather than a help. We see a Commission with a greater number of members, able to have sub-committees operating in each of the States, as being likely to speed up rather than to slow down its work. 
There are many aspects of this matter to which I would like to refer. I feel that they have been referred to already. I would seek to have those who are interested in this matter avail themselves of the opportunity to read the Hansard record of this debate. I refer not just to the debate at the second reading stage but also to the debate in the Committee stage. I make a public offer now to anyone who so wishes that I shall make endeavours to obtain copies of Hansard so that people can read what happens and not simply receive distorted versions handed down through organisations of which people may be members, which versions do not reflect the fact of what happened and the fact of the argument in this chamber. The Liberal Party Opposition, for the reasons which I have stated, does not propose to accede to the suggestion made by the Minister and will vote against his motion. 

 - Senator Milliner, will you move that it be tabled? 
That the letter from which  Senator Rae  read be tabled in the Senate. 
The question is that the Committee report progress and ask for leave to sit again. 
On what matter do you wish to speak? 
Order!  Senator Mulvihill,  I listened carefully to what you had to say. I wish to point out to you and to senators generally that we are in Committee of the Whole. I think that the remarks you made might properly have been made at another time. We are dealing with the Bill in the Committee stage at the moment. The Minister was explaining a position which had arisen following the introduction of the Bill and the movement into the Committee of the Whole at the last sitting. The Minister had the right to speak on that.  Senator Wright,  are you wishing to continue this debate? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
Order! The question is: That the Committee agrees to the modification made by the House of Representatives to the requested amendment made by the Senate and agrees to the consequential amendment made by the House of Representatives. Those of that opinion say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'.I think the 'ayes' have it. 
It is 7 o'clock and  Senator Murphy  has suggested that the Committee of the Whole should continue to sit. Is there any objection to that course being followed? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Requested amendment - 
Page 15, clause 15, sub-clause (5), leave out the sub-clause, insert the following sub-clause: "(5) There is payable to a State under this section, in respect of each year to which this Act applies, by way of financial assistance to the State in respect of recurrent expenditure of each non-systemic school in the State - 
in the case of the year commencing on 1 January 1974 - 
if the school is a non-government primary school- an amount equal to the product of the amount specified in column 2 of Table 3 in Schedule 2 opposite to the category specified in column 1 in which the school is included and the number of pupils receiving primary education at the school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year; and 
if the school is a non-government secondary school- an amount equal to the product of the amount specified in column 3 of Table 3 in Schedule 2 opposite to the category specified in column 1 in which the school is included and the number of pupils receiving secondary education at the school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year, 
in the case of the year commencing on 1 January 1975 - 
if the school is a non-government primary school- an amount equal to the product of the amount specified in column 4 of Table 3 in Schedule 2 opposite to the category specified in column 1 in which the school is included and the number of pupils receiving primary education at the school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year; and 
if the school is a non-government secondary school-an amount equal to the product of the amount specified in column 5 of Table 3 in Schedule 2 opposite to the category specified in column 1 in which the school in included and the number of pupils receiving secondary education at the school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year; and 
such further amounts as will ensure that, notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provisions of this Act - 
a sum of $62 in respect of every pupil receiving primary education at a non-government primary school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year; and 
a sum of $104 in respect of every pupil receiving secondary education at a non-government secondary school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year, is payable to the school authority of the school. ' '. 
Modifications - 
The words "Table 3 in Schedule 2" be omitted from the proposed sub-clause (5), wherever accurring, and the words "the table set out at the foot of this sub-section" be substituted; 
The word "and" be inserted at the end of paragraph ( a) of the proposed sub-clause (5 ); 
The word "and" be omitted from the end of paragraph ( b ) of the proposed sub-clause ( 5 ); 
Paragraph (c) of the proposed sub-clause (5) be omitted, and the following table substituted: 

<graphic href="058232197312133_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

Consequential amendment: 
Schedule 2, page 48, omit Table 3. 
As the Temporary  Chairman  of Committees referred to by  Senator Rae,  I wish to point out that I did read the terms of the motion to which I wished the Committee to give attention, that I called for those in favour of it to signify their approval by saying 'aye' and for those against it to say 'no' and that I gave as my opinion that the 'ayes' had it. At that stage one honourable senator-  Senator Rae-  called for a division. I looked at  Senator Rae  and waited but there was no other call for a division. I therefore said: 'The "ayes" have it'. I based my decision on those circumstances. I considered that a division was not required. 
Question put: 
That the report of the Committee be adopted. 
-Can the Minister for the Media say when the public inquiry into applications for commercial radio station licences for the Port Hedland, Dampier-Karratha and Roebourne areas will be held? Has the date for a public inquiry into the applications for the establishment of a commercial television service to the Mawson and Geraldton areas of Western Australia been announced yet? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Now that negotiations on wheat stabilisation have been concluded, what is the situation regarding the first advance payment and delivery quota for the 1974-75 harvest? As growers will soon be preparing land to plant wheat, will the Minister give an assurance that every effort will be made to finalise the first advance payment and quota? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. What stage has the Minister reached in his examination of the marketing report of the Australian Wool Corporation? Has he had contact with industry groups? When does he expect a Government decision on the report? 
-Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs advise the Senate of the total amount of the grant allocated by the Federal Government to Western Australia for the financial year 1973-74 for the purpose of Aboriginal advancement? How does this grant compare with that provided for the same purpose during the previous year? 
On the matter that has been raised by  Senator Reid,  I should like to have a few words to say. I shall try not to keep the Senate too long. I think that  Senator Reid  has submitted a case which is substantially true as far as he has taken it. I think we ought to be aware of the fact that he was quoting from what was said in a situation which occurred after the Minister for Services and Property,  Mr Daly,  had got on to his feet and after the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had got on to his feet. I think that we should appreciate the fact that at no public meeting that any honourable senator has ever attended has a  speaker  gone to the meeting in order to antagonise it. The only purpose of having a meeting is to win over the people who have come to hear the  speaker.  To imply, as  Senator Reid  has done, that both  Mr Daly  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  were practically the first speakers and were inciting that audience to violence is ridiculous, to say the least. 
I was not at the meeting. I did arrange for friends of mine to go there and to give me a report on what happened. We find that there were people who spoke prior to  Mr Daly  and the Prime Minister. These earlier speakers were prepared to speak to the audience, which grew to some 10,000 people- a record for Forrest Place. These early speakers did their best to convince the crowd of Labor's policies. Then a procession of people came to the meeting bearing placards. Obviously these people were farmers because nobody else would have carried those placards photographs of which  Senator Reid  said he has in his possession. I am prepared to accept the fact that these farmers who came there did not come for the purpose of creating a violent disturbance. They came there to disrupt the meeting by interjection, which they are entitled to do, and by making a noise to prevent the  speaker  from being heard, which they are entitled to do. 
They are entitled to attend a meeting and try to interject. 
That is my colleague's interpretation. As I said, I am prepared to accept the fact that these men, if they feel they have a grievance, can legitimately express their displeasure. They did so. There was also around the speakers' platform a large crowd of people who, I am confident from what I have been told, were not farmers. They were out to foment a disturbance, and when they found that they were being taken by this group which was making a procession into the area they then took the opportunity of augmenting that disturbance. This is what happened at the time when  Mr Daly  got to his feet to speak.  Mr Daly  was not able to be heard. I assume that it was because of that that he made these derogatory statements about the people who were obstructing the course of free speech. Although I personally would not have used the same terms, I think he was entitled to make some criticism of the people there. The same thing applies to the Prime Minister. 
Why have the farmers of Western Australia come to this position? I think this is the important thing: A lot of this is due to the fact that the farmers in Western Australia- and this has been fomented by the Farmers Union, of which I am a financial member- have not been told the facts about what the Federal Government has been doing for farmers in Australia while it has been in office. One of the things that  Mr Eckersley,  the  President  of the Farmers Union, one of the things that the 'Farmers Weekly', a newspaper from which  Senator Reid  quoted, one of the things that the 'Countryman', a country newspaper distributed all over the rural areas of Western Australia, and one of the things which other rural newspapers have said is that the Federal Labor Government has cut off the taxation concessions that were allowed to farmers. They state quite confidently that section 75 of the Income Tax Act now does not apply. This is the section that covers concessions for the provision of a water supply, for - 
-Yes it is. This is what the farmers are objecting to. They have told the farmers over and over again, and the farmers believe this. One of the things that they came to the meeting at Subiaco oval to talk about was that they were not getting the concessions that had been granted to farmers over many years because the Federal Government had cut off the concessions. This is not a fact. Section 75 - 
-I think that my colleagues are not aware of the fact that I know this matter rather well. I thank them for their assistance but I would like to make certain points. This is tremendously important because the farmers all over Western Australia think that they cannot claim deductions for preparing their land for pastures, for growing crops and for putting down water supplies. But that is not right. Section 75 does not apply after 1 July last year, but from then on exactly the same deductions are allowed with the exception of the cost of fencing for the sub-division of properties. 
Exactly the same things  Senator. The  only difference is that some deductions have to be spread over 5 years and others over 10 years. But as I have said, farmers still get the deductions they received prior to 1 July 1973 with the exception of the cost of the interior fencing of farms for the purpose of subdivision. But I am not even sure that they are not entitled to some deduction if the fencing is carried out as part of the preparation of cropping. I think this is a doubtful point. 
The 'West Australian' newspaper was largely responsible for the Labor Party getting a bad vote last Saturday. The Friday edition of the paper came out with the statement that centralism by the Federal Government was what was wrong with Western Australia. The paper complained that the Federal Government was taking away the rights of farmers in Western Australia. This was absolutely untrue. I am pointing out the error on the part of people like  Senator Reid,  well meaning as they may be, but misunderstanding the situation as I believe them to be, who suggest that a  speaker  would make the trip to Western Australia from the eastern States in order to antagonise a marvellous meeting, the best that has ever been held in Western Australia as far as numbers are concerned, instead of trying to win an election. Commonsense ought to tell honourable senators that this is a ridiculous proposition. It was only because of the opposition to preceding speakers at the meeting that this incident occurred. I think that the facts that I have given honourable senators of what actually happened from the beginning of the meeting and not half way through it, are sufficient to show that  Senator Reid  is unfortunately not fully aware of what happened on that occasion. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen a recent article in the magazine New Accent' which refers to a proposal allegedly being developed by the Department of the Media to provide a teleprinter information service called 'GAIN'? Can the Minister confirm that his Department is undertaking such a project? What effect will such a project have on work opportunities for journalists particularly those in the parliamentary Press Gallery? 
I rise, as an ordinary person and not as a lawyer, with some trepidation after listening to  Senator Wright  speaking for three-quarters of an hour. He based most of his argument, both last Thursday and again today, on the question of whether  Senator, at  that time, V. C. Gair had or had not written a resignation; because he had not written a resignation a position as Queensland senator was not vacant. The position is quite interesting when one looks at the Constitution, as I have done. Section 44 is the first section which deals with a person who can be eligible to sit in the Senate. The section lists a number of people who cannot under any circumstance become a senator. Section 44 (i) to (v) lists the people who shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator. Having established who is eligible, the Constitution, as is quite reasonable, deals with the case of a senator or a member of the House of Representatives who does something which takes away his right to be a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. Section 45 (iii) of the Constitution is the important section because it states that if a senator 'directly or indirectly takes or agrees to take any fee or honorarium for services rendered to the Commonwealth' his place shall thereupon become vacant. The phrase 'directly or indirectly takes or agrees to take ' is an extremely wide one. It covers pretty well any situation one could think of. 
Let us deal with the letter which V. C. Gair addressed to the  President  and which is dated 3 April 1974. The third paragraph of that letter states: 
As you are aware, the position of Ambassador is an office of profit under the Crown and also carries with it fees for services rendered to the Commonwealth . . . 
I think it is obvious to anyone that at that time  Senator Gair  was of the opinion that the position of ambassador was an office of profit. He considered that at that point of time, by this letter which he sent to the  President,  he was not eligible to continue as a senator under section 45 (iii) because he had agreed to take a fee or honorarium for services rendered to the Commonwealth. He said this is his letter. I know of no ambassador who at present is in his position in an honorary capacity.  Senator Wright  will probably find out whether there is one, but I know of no person in an ambassadorial position who is not receiving an emolument for his office. Therefore, when V. C. Gair said 'As you are aware'- he was referring to the  President-  he believed that the position of ambassador was an office of profit under the Crown. I think that sentence is the relevant part of his letter. It makes the point that his office as a senator would have become vacant because he had agreed to accept the position. 
I wis&gt;h to take the matter a little further. Section 47 states: 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, any question respecting the qualification of a senator or of a member of the House of Representatives, or respecting a vacancy in either House of the Parliament, and any question of a disputed election to either House, shall be determined by the House in which the question arises. 
I contend that this is in the normal flow of the way in which the Constitution was compiled and is presented here. Section 44 lists the persons who are eligible to stand. Section 45 states that a person cannot remain a senator if he does any of the things listed, such as becomes subject to any of the disabilities mentioned in the last preceding section, takes the benefit of any law relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors or agrees to take any fee, which is the one I quoted- section 45(iii). The notation in the column alongside section 47 is 'Disputed elections'. I have dealt with a case in which a person automatically leaves his position in the Senate when he does certain things. When a person has been elected or appointed, as he can be by a GovernorinCouncil in any of the States- he can be appointed; he does not have to be elected- if any one of the provisions of sections 44 or 45 of the Constitution are contravened, the Senate can meet and determine whether any action should be taken against the person who is sitting as a senator. 
I feel that we should not be guided by the weight of numbers. We are faced with a very complex situation. It seems to me that the reasonable and just thing to do is not to come down on one side or the other but to refer the matter to people who understand the workings of the law. This would happen if the motion moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  were carried. We are not asking the Senate to determine, we are not coming down on one side or the other; we are asking that the highest authority in the land determine the correct procedure in view of the whole of the proceedings in relation to the nomination of  Senator Gair  to the position of Ambassador to Ireland. I think we would be recreant to our trust if we tried to take over the responsibility of determining the right thing to do when we are not able to argue this matter properly.  Senator Wright  has argued it from one point of view, and members of the Government who are lawyers have argued it from another point of view. There are always 2 points of view to any question. I believe that the correct procedure is not to accept the amendment but to vote for the motion. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Media, arises from observations I made recently when I was overseas. What measures are being taken to expand the Government Information Service overseas? Have any moves been taken already to extend the projection of Australia in countries where there already are information officers? 
